u2017-09-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, Day 1 of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that our former colleague Zsolt Lányi died at the age of 88. Zsolt Lányi joined the Independent Kisgazda Party in 1945, in 1956 he rebuilt the party's organization in Újpest, in 1988 he was president of the Újpest organization and vice-president of the organization in Budapest. From 1994 he participated in the work of the Parliament as a member of the FKGP faction, and from 1998 until 2001 as Deputy Head of the Group. After 2001, he continued his activities as an independent member until the end of the cycle. From 1994 he was a member of the Defence Committee and from 1998 he worked as Chairman, and from 1995 to 1998 he also participated in the work of the Committee on Culture and Press. In addition to his public activities, he also played a role in sports life, and in 2002 he was elected honorary president of the Újpest Gymnastics Association. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before the agenda today: a report on the work carried out and the tasks ahead. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
u2017-09-18-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I respectfully welcome you. The Parliament held the last session of the previous ordinary session on 15 June 2017. It's been three months since then. According to our constitutional customs, the head of the government will then report to the reconvening Members about what was important in the period without Parliament. Mr President, that is why I have asked for the floor. Dear House, As regards the economic situation of the country, the dry facts are as follows. By the end of June 2017, the government debt fell below 74%. Our economy increased by 3.2 percent in the second quarter. We have managed to increase the number of employees, 4 million 434 thousand people are working in Hungary today, and I thank them for that; this is an increase of 62,000 compared to the previous year. We reduced the number of unemployed, today it was 193 thousand, and a year ago it was 227 thousand. Unemployment is 4.2 percent, which means that total employment is at an arm's length. The number of public workers has been constantly reduced, and they are constantly moving to the private economy. Together, these data risk making the statement that the work-based economy has been built, that the economy is functioning, Hungary is today a country that is able to give jobs to all its citizens who want to work. Dear House, We also have payment, earnings and wage data for the first half of the year. In June, gross average earnings amounted to HUF 290 300; this is a serious increase, but it is not enough. In addition to and in parallel with improving the competitiveness of our companies, it is necessary and possible to further increase wages. The development of industrial production shows that industry also has opportunities for growth and wage growth. The increase in construction production shows that there is still room for further wage increases. The performance of the construction industry increased by 27 percent in the second quarter compared to the previous year. The turnover of commercial accommodations and the overall performance of catering have developed strongly and increased, with an increase of 10-12 percent for businesses. This shows, in particular, that we are also improving the tax conditions of catering, that we can expect additional recruitment and wage increases here as well. In agriculture, the number of people employed increased by 25 percent in seven years, 217 thousand people earn their living in Hungarian agriculture today, and gross earnings have increased by 42 percent in recent years. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the figures of the second quarter, I see that, as a result of wage increases, more and more people are worth working in Hungary. Dear House, Schools have taken place, schools have reopened their gates. From September 2017 one and a half million children will go to school and kindergarten. We have 751,000 primary school students, 78 thousand secondary schoolers, 5800 specialized students, 182 thousand high school students, 168 thousand high school students, and the number of preschoolers will be 314 thousand this year. There are 255 855 students in higher education. Overall, we provide education for about one million children and young people out of ten million Hungarians and prepare them for adult life within state limits. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian Government is pursuing family policy rather than immigration and migrant policy; here are some information I would like to share with you. One of the elements of this family policy is the feeding of children, the amount spent on it increased by two and a half times in 7 years, in 2017 it will be 74 billion forints and 80 billion forints in 2018. Today, the number of students in daycare, kindergarten, school is 467,000. Please think: Hungary is strong enough today to provide 467 000 children free of charge every day and take this burden off the shoulders of families. Similarly, the free textbook supply was extended to all primary school students and to the first grade of high school in September. Hungary is a country where about 85 percent of all students receive textbooks free of charge, more than one million students. Hungary is a country where we have managed to increase the recognition and appreciation of our teachers by introducing the pedagogical career; the situation is far from perfect, but it cannot be compared with the 2010 situation inherited from the previous government. I would also like to inform this House of the results of the summer camping. It may not be understood by everyone, but it is an important matter, not only in our own childhood, but I believe that it is also a measure of the strength, capacity and mental state of the country. In 2017, about 100,000 children were expected to attend the campgrounds, and more than 50,000 children could attend the day-care Erzsébet camp. In 2017, a thousand Hungarian children from Transcarpathia were on holiday in Zánka, and we also hosted 500 Ukrainian children and their escorts. It is natural for us to help Ukrainian families as well as our abilities and opportunities. [[13.20]] This is why we are painfully affected by the decision of Ukrainian policy to deprive Hungarian children of the Hungarian language education from the top of the school. We ask: what have these Hungarian children done wrong? What did their parents do? Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to inform this House that we have also launched a school development programme. 527 schools of 400 settlements are renewed. Out of the 400 settlements, 292 settlements are located in disadvantaged districts, so this is not only a school but also a catch-up program. School development exceeding HUF 1 billion starts in ten settlements: Pásztó, Kiskőrös, Bácsalmás, Iregsemcse, Babócsa, Kunszentmiklós, Makó, Kalocsa, Debrecen and Tata. I mean, this House, our family policy, which includes family taxation, child health care, education, sport, housing support and the work plan for families, well, our family policy remains at the heart of government work. It is good to see that the situation of families is improving, or we are not working in vain. Dear House, I would like you to know, fellow Members, that we are launching a scholarship programme in medical secondary schools from September; this concerns 3,200 students. The monthly amount could be up to HUF 40,000. We opened a HUF 1 billion HUF 150 million framework for nursing master's education. This is where I note that the government decided to purchase 93 new ambulances this summer. As far as security and foreign policy is concerned, the most important thing is that, as of 1 July, Hungary will hold the V4 Presidency. The President of Egypt negotiated in Budapest, and after 30 years the Israeli Prime Minister also visited Budapest. We have set up a joint counter-terrorism task force with the participation of the V4 countries and Israel. We also agreed to take Israel and Hungary to a higher level. And finally, I am happy to tell this House that we entered this summer, more precisely, Budapest has entered the elite club of global sports cities. The World Water Championships and the World Cup of Cheats prove that outside the World Football Championships, we are able to host any sporting event, world sports event. On behalf of those involved, I thank you on behalf of the government. Dear House, Hungary and the Hungarian government continued this summer to fight against forced resettlement plans in Brussels. You know my position very well. The old world trade, world economy and world politics are being replaced by a new world order. We can't help it, we can't stop it, because the power lines are being redesigned world wide. The result of this redeployment, whether we like it or not, is the movement that, as a new type of migration, has reached our European continent and has tested it. Moreover, this migration coincides with one of the world's most recent world-offensives of Islam. They are also well aware of my view that I believe that the European Union, which is our wider country, is pursuing a failed immigration policy and a failed foreign policy; and that its error is not only in its rightful mind but in its own right. Europe is pursuing a policy that has not been experienced in a thousand years: a continent that does not protect its external borders but opens them. This is yet another temptation for the crowds of migration that are already on the way and are now picking up. What we've seen so far was just a warm-up. According to NATO's forecast, which was made in their research facility, 60 million people will move from Africa to Europe by 2020. The result of this failed policy in Brussels is every week of acts of terrorism, a dramatic fall in public security and a change in Europe's demographic, religious and cultural image, without scientific scrutiny, which is visible to the naked eye. Well, this is what we want to protect ourselves from, we want to protect Hungary, Central Europe and, if possible, the whole European Union. Dear House, I see that there is a new difference within the European Union, a new dividing line, a new grouping factor. The situation appears to be that there are immigrant countries and non-immigrant countries in the European Union today. Countries that accept, approve, and even sometimes organise the deployment of migrants, immigrants, new homeowners, invasion groups in Europe: most of these former colonial countries have now become mixed countries. The internal proportions of countries with mixed populations vary clearly and undeniablely: the proportion of the Christian element is decreasing, the proportion of the non-Christian element is increasing. Anyone who doesn't believe your eyes should read the official latest schooling data in Austria. From now on, it's all just a matter of simple mathematical calculation. The state of the end can be seen. And there are non-immigrant countries in the European Union, such as Hungary, who insist on their safety, their way of life, their national, religious and cultural identity, simply speaking, we want Hungary and we want it sighed: we also want a European Europe. Europe, the future of the European Union, depends on the ability of these two groups of countries - immigrant and non-immigrant countries - to develop coexistence and a new, mutually agreed system of cooperation. This is only possible if we respect each other's democratic will. We accept that the immigrant countries have decided to become immigrant countries. We ask them to accept that we will never be. That is what the quota trial is about, and the judgment that you can make at the end of the summer. Today, immigrant countries want to resolve the differences between the two groups of countries by proposing that we also become an immigrant country. And if we refuse to do so, we will be raped and forced to do so. This is what the compulsory quota and the compulsory introduction system are all about. I consider this plan to be the plan of George Soros. He put it out and published it under his own name. This is what Brussels bureaucrats do, who eat from the palm of Soros, by the way. This is why the Commission has on the table a proposal for a reform of the asylum system, which proposes a permanent compulsory resettlement scheme. Dear House, The Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party have submitted a request to the government for a national consultation on the Soros Plan. I will submit this proposal to the government in agreement. I ask everyone who is important for Hungary's independence, sovereignty, important for Hungary's security, national culture, Christian roots, to participate in the national consultation. I wish you all a successful session. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-2	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his speech and inform the honourable factions that the Prime Minister's statement did not exceed the 20-minute time frame, which means that the factions have 5-5 minutes to say their response. I give the floor to Deputy Group Leader Gábor Vona, please. [[13.30]]
u2017-09-18-3	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Thank you so much for a few unforgettable moments. I think it's time for us to step out of your matrix and talk about reality. In 2010, you took over a country in ruins from the socialists - I think we agree on that - and in the seven years since then, you have not put this country on a catching up, rising orbit, but on a landing orbit. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I've told you many times that over the past few years, you've turned from a brilliant young Democrat to a burnt-out despot. In vain, you will present a statue to István Tisza, Prime Minister, if, in the meantime, you smuggle the memory of Mátyás Rákosi and János Kádár back here with your political practice, political operation and political action. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] By the way, you can learn from you, it is undeniable, there is much to learn, for example, how not to run a community, how not to run a country. I don't know if you've thought about the opportunity you've been given by fate, the donation you've made by winning two-thirds parliamentary elections, how much good you could have done with this country, how much you could have done by a two-thirds majority, and whether you've taken advantage of this huge historic opportunity or not. Have you considered that question? Because I don't think he was alive, and a lot of people say he wasn't alive, but he abused it. He did not raise the country, but raised the level of corruption to a height that was not previously seen in Hungary. I ask you, Prime Minister, to take a look at who surrounded you between 1998 and 2002 and who is surrounding you now. Who's surrounding him now? There's a big difference. There's a lot of tearing and debauchery in this, too. Prime Minister S, take a look at what is left of the beautiful principles and goals that have been formulated in your programmes since 1998-2002. Soccer's left, soccer's left, train's left. Therefore, it should not have been won twice by two-thirds, it should not have been amended by the Fundamental Law. In 2018, when the Jobbik government will form and replace you [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] It will have three key national strategic issues to endure. The first question will be to protect the country's security, because whatever Prime Minister and your press say, the stake of this election in 2018 will not be that if Viktor Orbán fails, the fence will be broken down. That's not your bet. Because the Jobbik will win the election, and you will indeed leave, Prime Minister, but the fence will remain. In fact, not only will the fence remain, but there will be border guards next to the fence; in fact, we will abolish the residency bond business, which is so kind to you and which brings so much corrupt money. No poor migrants, no rich migrants. Prime Minister, Jobbik will continue to protect Hungary from migration after 2018 and will protect Hungary from the quota and will ensure that Hungary has the historically inherited cultural and social arrangements that are now ours. This is the first task. The second step, and this is also a category of zero steps, is essentially what this country has been waiting for for for 27 years. 27 years. This country has been waiting 27 years, Prime Minister, to finally be accounted for, that the thieves, corrupt bastards, the politicians, those who steal people's money and fatten it to private property, will finally be punished. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] This is what the country has been waiting for for for 27 years, and this will be the second important step for the Jobbik government. And you know who we're gonna start with, Prime Minister? [[Lajos Kósa: Béla Kovács. Defiance and applause on the pro-government side.]] You know very well, Prime Minister Lajos Kósa's fantasies, contrary to his desire-driven thinking, we will start with you, Prime Minister, because you are the spider in the middle of the spider web, and this country must be freed from the corrupt mischief in which you put it. I know that with these words, I will fight your anger, and the hyenas of the press, as they have done in recent months, in every way, morally, humanly, they will try to destroy me, but Prime Minister, I am happy to do it, because someone has to take it, someone has to drag the country out of this corrupt cesspool! Then comes the third task, the most important, not the Soros plan, but the parallel plan: the economic uplift of the country. I say that it is parallel because, on the one hand, the European Union must be made fair, social and solidarity - that is what our wage Union initiative is all about, which you do not support - and, on the other hand, the domestic economy must be raised, competitive and productive. In such a economy there will be no room for corruption, there will be no room for the abandonment of workers in the multinationals, the abandonment of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the destruction of health and education, the manipulation of pensioners and the persecution of young people. But most importantly, do you know what will not have a place in this new economic policy and this new government policy? For you, Prime Minister. This is the real stake of the elections in 2018 whether this country will continue to break down with you, or if this country will finally rise without you. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-4	On behalf of the MSZP, I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Listening to his speech, a production conference again and a vision of foreign policy, we can conclude that we live in two different worlds. Or maybe you could say we're in two mills or even two windmills. [[Viktor Orbán: Lucky!]] One world belongs to you, in which you, like Don Quixote or Sancho Panza, fight with your demons, Brussels, Soros, Communists, Nihilists, I don't know who the other world is; and in this reality we see Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna, Antal Rogán's neighbor, friends, István Garancsi, we see the public money pump, we see the national oligarchs, but we see areas without a home doctor, we see hospitals without a doctor, we see a disintegrating school system, we see 4 million Hungarian people living below the minimum living, and we see 600,000 emigrated Hungarians. But we also see how seriously you take Christian values, which are so often referred to; we see the urizing elite, we see their desire for helicoptering, we see the draining of EU money, and we see the most thoughtful forms of hatred. Meanwhile, a man who freed a murderer has taught us about the protection of Christendom, about solidarity, about patriotism, about moral matters. Yeah, I'm talking about the Azeri axe killer who killed a Christian man at night. We didn't understand why and how this happened, but now, as we read in the newspapers during an excavation, there was money laundering here, money came to Hungary, we now suspect the reasons. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying!]] In your world, we have the Soros plan, the millions of migrants that they want to hold a national consultation on. In reality, this is all about business for you. A dirty business. Because it's a dirty business for national consultation, because we see that their friends always make money on it. Dirty business, because that's how they keep the Habony Commando, that's how they make the lie factory. It's a dirty business because it turns out your friends were looking for you at the fence building. And it's a dirty business because, as long as you're talking about homogeneous Hungary and a homogeneous Europe, tens of thousands of people have been allowed in with or without the settlement bonds, while your circles of friends have made hundreds of billions. By the way, this consultation is eeriely similar to last year's quota vote. Prime Minister, didn't you notice that you failed? You remember five or three. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] 5 million Hungarian voters said no to incite hatred [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] As they applauded nearly 20 billion forints. Prime Minister, wasn't that enough? Do you really think money and power are the most important things for a statesman? But how about we play with the idea and turn it around, and once you don't ask questions from your world, you ask the voters from the real world, and you ask them why they don't have a home doctor in their village, why they don't have a doctor in hospitals, why they have to be afraid of hospital infections. They would ask why, while there are nearly 100,000 vacant posts, they need their brother, their brother, their child to work abroad, why they need to watch low - cost flights to meet their grandchildren, and why they need to listen to their high school children studying abroad. And they ask why they pay more for gas than it costs. They ask why the Fidesz entrepreneur always gets the order. And they'd ask why they don't get out of their pension or pay at the end of the month, why they can't buy a new washing machine, or why they can't go on vacation with their children for a week. Come on. These are the issues that concern Hungarian voters, and that is why we need a change of government in 2018. 'Cause we're gonna get justice after this. We're gonna get justice in public life, because it's not possible that Lawrence Ripper can earn 11 million forints an hour, even if he's asleep! It won't be after 2018! We're gonna get justice on pay. We're making the minimum wage tax-free. In the area of pensions, we double the minimum pension, catch up on pensions. [[13.40]] Justice in health care, energy bills, a third of small consumers pay less. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: What did you do until 2010?]] And we're gonna get justice in education, we're gonna get the first degree free, and we're gonna get their governors out of school districts and universities. Questions coming from reality need real answers - for our common future, for a just Hungary. Thank you.
u2017-09-18-6	Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, with regard to the pro-government representatives, I hoped that a summer holiday was enough to rest; they listened more patiently to opposition speakers than they had done before. If I should have been disappointed, then anyone who feels that he hasn't rested can go out a little further. Next up is Wind Bernadett. [[Voices in the ranks of MSZP: Long live! Applause in the same place.]]
u2017-09-18-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, The 2018 election will not be about quotas and fences. No one will break down the fence and the quota will not be introduced in the European Union in general. You know that, and I know that. But after your report, there's one thing I can tell you. It is increasingly apparent that Hungary will not be protected by Fidesz, but that we must protect this country from Fidesz. Because there's a building in this country that's been built for 30 years, you and your socialist ancestors. This structure is now very much in need of demolition. This is the structure of the policy of the last 30 years, which must be demolished because it no longer brings any good to Hungary or to Hungarian people. You and your ancestors stole this country, cheated it, lied to it, abandoned the Hungarian people and tricked them. You don't deserve any more chances from this country. [[Intercom from the LMP line: That's right!]] The political structure of the last 30 years has been doomed. But the thing is, no one can participate in this breakdown, nor will they be able to participate, who stood there when these walls were drawn. Now, of course, you're calming down. They tell you these walls are quite stable. In fact, some people think they're unbreakable. But on the inside, they're very afraid that it could collapse like a house of cards at any moment. That is why corruption in Hungary was boosted to industrial sizes. That's why you need huge propaganda, organized media, and that's why you, Prime Minister, have built the entire vassal system in this country. You know, we've been here at "Maybe Other In Politics," and I've been working for ten years to break down this whole corrupt political institution. You have to tear it down because if it collapses, it's going to bury the whole country. He will bury those innocent Hungarian people who are not destined to suffer the sins of corrupt politicians. You know, Prime Minister, the elections in 2018 will be about one thing. It will be about whether the Hungarian people and Hungary can shake off the politics of the last 30 years or not. Should we let politics be about the lives of Hungarian people, or will politics, for once in life, be about the Hungarian people, as the order of things would be? I could also put it this way, Prime Minister, that we should continue to let tired, apathetic, corrupt, worn-out and outdated politicians continue to blow the pass bar in Hungary. I think you've had a lot of people's boots, Prime Minister. Many therefore go abroad, and others continue to suffer at home. But the point is that in 2018 we have to ask ourselves one question, and all Hungarian people have to ask this question: do we want Hungary to finally pick up the XXI. Company speed or not? Because while you're here giving us a production report and talking about your visions and building nuclear power plants, there's a revolution going on in the world. But not the revolution that you are seeing, but the smart revolution in which smart networks and smart cities are created, where a green turn takes place, in which artificial intelligence develops R &amp; D to a climax. And these countries are pulling far ahead of Hungary, and we are staying sluggish, even in our own narrowest environment. I say, Prime Minister, and the May Other Politics undertake that Hungary must be prepared for the scientific-technical revolution that is already taking place in the world. Because the question is, and 2018 will be about whether we will be winners or losers of this revolution. One thing is certain: Hungary needs change, it needs a new approach. Hungary needs dynamism. Change, a new attitude and dynamism are what we need. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but I think that's absolutely the truth. This can't go on! You're just fighting and fighting with everyone. I want to cooperate. I want to work with the people who spend eight hours honorably at work, but they can't make a living on their salary. People who want excellent education and working health care, but you, you didn't give them that. And with people who believe in a strong and united Europe, of which Hungary is part, and whose security NATO can guarantee. Prime Minister! You demand respect, but you don't give it to anyone else. Prime Minister! They pretend they're good with polls, but they change like the weather. I see that you are the past and we are the future. You have failed. Now it's our turn.
u2017-09-18-8	Now it's KDNP. I give the floor to Mr. Péter Harrach.
u2017-09-18-9	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, after the angry outbursts of the desire for power, the subject should also be addressed. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] We always talked about double responsibility when the issue of migration came up. Of course, we have an obligation to help the persecuted. Of course, we have an obligation to our own country and nation, to ensure self-defense for them. Allow me to say a few words about this latter one first. When we ask what qualities a strong community has and how it responds to a request to accept the person, we must say that this strong community has common standards, it has shared celebrations, it has shared pride. When the applicant appears, they first look at it, and if they decide to accept it, they offer him common standards, common holidays, shared pride, and become a part of their society. But they never allow their inbound culture to be equal to their own culture, especially not to dominate them. Don't get me wrong, diversity is a good and beautiful thing - within culture. If you look around, or especially listen to the speakers here, you can see how different we are. Within a culture, diversity is a value, and we welcome that. But when another culture tries to come in and take over, we can't be happy about that. Because every culture has its own accommodation area. We in Europe love this European, Western culture, and we live in it, and we cannot accept what is not called a diverse, but a multicultural society. Then let us look at the state of a declining community: it has no strong identity, but it has a self-destructive ideology, and it is now called the ideology of open society in Europe. What does that mean? What is the teaching of this open society ideology, which speaks of cultures living together, and which says that everyone is free to choose any culture. Indeed, the freedom of a human person is a great value, free choice is given to everyone. But again, it is in the interest of society not to live in mixed societies and mixed cultures, because it has been proven that it does not work. [[13.50]] And how it's proven, we all see it. When we - and what the Prime Minister has said - start a consultation in which the Soros plan will be discussed, this ideology, called an open culture, is behind this plan. It doesn't work, and it won't work. For a brief thought, allow me to speak on the other side of double responsibility. We have a duty to help the persecuted, but let us acknowledge that the basis of proper thinking is good destination, let us distinguish between persecuted and lucky wanderers. I believe that all persecuted must be helped, for example, by virtue of the inner circles of our responsibility to Christians in the Middle East for the first time. They always said when we met them that they would never ask for this help in Europe, but in their own country. Hungary has already granted [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And he'll still give you this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-10	The Fidesz faction leader is next. I give the floor to Mr. Lajos Kósa.
u2017-09-18-11	Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr President, you are right, Members of Parliament must be very, very patient in Parliament's Chamber, even if perhaps a Mucius Scaevola could listen to all the great things, if you like, nonsense, which my fellow opposition Members have said. Everyone may have noticed that all of a sudden everyone here has won the election and is thinking about establishing a government, even if it is clear to everyone in Hungary today that they can't agree with each other in the least, not even on the most insignificant issues. But let's get this over with. Each of my fellow opposition leaders has whipped corruption. Let's record some facts. The biggest corruption case ever committed by Hungary is metro four. I would ask my fellow group leader, Bertalan Tóth, to do a detailed confession of corruption from more than 150 billion forints removed in subway four, please, together with fellow parties, perhaps naming where the rest of the money is, perhaps by informing Vice President Simon of how the money had to be put in safes in Vienna. On the other hand, it is unprecedented - otherwise to Bertalan Wind I'm telling you, 27 years of democracy in Hungary, not 30 [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] - "My colleague Bernadett Szél, in 87, when you referred to the beginning of democracy, János Kádár gave an interview on television about the so-called peppers potato. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks. Interview from Fidesz: He was still in school!]] Anyway, let's just ignore it. So one sure thing, in the 27-year history of democracy, has not been the case, only in one case, that a Member of the European Parliament, elected in Hungary, happens to be subject to proceedings in a spying operation for the benefit of a foreign country. Perhaps my colleague Gábor Vona missed the fact that Béla Kovács happens to be in the process of spying for the benefit of the Russians. Let's not talk about having a little financial corruption case, by the way, but it's a sideline for the Russians to spy on. And let us remember that at the end of the spring session, when we wanted to prevent the black funding of the parties, the opposition voted against it, clearly opening up a wide margin for institutional corruption, as if writing on their foreheads that come, billionaires, there are all sellers here. Otherwise, if that had not been the intention, they would have voted in favour of their own proposal, which would have eliminated black funding directly before the election. And the fact that the opposition is almost monotonously pro-migration and immigration is no longer a surprise, but let us recall that they have lied all along in these matters, which is now clear to the sun, and can be caught up to everyone. Molnár Gyula 2016. CHAPTER IX On the 23rd of the month, he was able to say the following - remember, the president of the MSZP [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lajos, then you quote yourself, right?]] There is no serious politician in Europe today who would like to introduce compulsory resettlement quotas in order to resolve the refugee issue. The same was said by Bertalan Tóth, István Ujhelyi, Ágnes Kunhalmi, every speaker of the opposition denied the existence of a compulsory resettlement quota. Before that, they denied that migration existed at all. They said it was a fidesz trick. Now they deny the Soros plan that is now available everywhere. They also deny that György Soros has ever been to Hungary or the European Union, while the Soros plan is well-known to everyone, and it would be very good to finally have someone, a nation in Europe, or nations such as the Poles, Slovaks, Czechs, stand on their heels and say that, as the nations, Europe, must take their fate into its own hands, rather than American stock market speculators, who we want to live with permanently. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-12	I ask you, Prime Minister, do you wish to use the possibility of rejoinder? [[Viktor Orbán: I would like to.]] Yeah, I'll give you the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have listened to the words of my fellow opposition Members to me, and I see that the candidates for Prime Minister have increased here during the summer. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What's wrong with that?]] I see that the women and gentlemen nominated by the Prime Minister are struggling with the problem that people are not taking them seriously, and that they are already facing problems of visibility. That's how I explain how rough and personal they are in this Chamber. All I can advise you as a man who has spent a lot of time in the chair you are about to break and what you would like to occupy, believe me that Hungarians know well that you cannot build a country out of personal power desires and ambitions. Please take this to heart. [[Moore from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. Intercoms from Jobbik: We see it! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I also listened to the Tirads of the President of Jobbik. All he needs to know is that steering requires more powerful tools than eyebrow clips. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Interviews from Jobbik: Personality! Personality!]] As far as the head of the MSZP faction is concerned, I would just like to say to him that there is no health care, education, or even seven-and-a-half months for pensioners to bring together and promise, and when they govern, to do the opposite. People remember. You Socialists all voted personally when you took a month's wages from teachers, took a month's wages from hospital nurses and took a month's pension from pensioners. Dear LMP, We're doing everything we can to take you seriously. This requires considerable effort. This may not be an insult to you, either, if I draw your attention to the fact that the LMP MEP, Tamás Meszerics, said about the resettlement quota, which you also deny the existence of, so your representative said that the LMP could not imagine the solution to the crisis other than the introduction of a compulsory quota system. How can they believe [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] How can people believe you? As far as the issue of immigration is concerned, I can tell you that the quota lawsuit that we lost in Brussels was about the compulsory immigration quota, and it was about whether some of the European Union's organisations involved in the legislative process had legally established the compulsory resettlement quota. It didn't even occur to me that there is no such quota, but the question is whether the legislation has been legally drawn up. [[14.00]] We have lost this lawsuit because the court has ruled that this legislation has been legally drawn up. Compared to this, this is Hungary's biggest, Central Europe's most serious and I think it is Europe's historic challenge. How could the Hungarian electorate at home take those parties seriously, who on this subject, whose weight is so great, could say the following? Ágnes Kunhalmi, I quote him, the false problem of immigration created by Fidesz. The country that draws a wall at its borders is going to die, and it is going to put itself in a ghetto. My fellow Member, can you be entrusted with a country? Who have not yet recognized the danger that threatens us at our borders? Csaba Horváth:, Immigration is a fake problem created by Fidesz. But to summon their Prime Minister's candidate, László Botka said: "The city's population was not disturbed by refugees at all. And then later he said, "Of course, we will make sure that the fence can be broken down as quickly as possible." Why do you think that Hungarian voters will vote for you in order to break down the fence as soon as possible? [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not what he said. Anita Beringes: If there is no problem, there is no fence.]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, my honourable fellow Member, Mr Bertalan Tóth, if you have already been kind enough to speak to me, you have also said that I quote you literally: there will be no and there will not be a compulsory resettlement quota. Then what has the court now decided, my honourable fellow Member? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Noise. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You stole the country.]] So, I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary is facing serious questions. He's got some tough cases to deal with, and we need unity, unity, and strength. I ask you not to be the most important thing to you, that you will be able to do anything for money and power in the months ahead. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We can talk about that! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's you!]] Try to serve the Hungarian voters! Believe me, they've worked a lot in the last few years, and they deserve it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-14	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech and for your answers. And now we are going to move on to the speeches before the announced agenda, after the one minute of technical pause that I am announcing with a view to letting anyone who has more important things to do out of the room be able to leave quietly, quietly and quickly. [[It's a short break.]] Dear House, We'll get back to work. On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, István Hollik, Member of the People's Party, will rise to say: "The opposition is ready for the resettlement of migrants." Here you go, Congressman. Attention, please.
u2017-09-18-15	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, As Prime Minister pointed out, the sad reality in Hungary today is that the opposition cannot be expected to defend Hungary. Following the outrageous judgment of the European Court of Justice, it has become clear that not only Brussels, but also the pro-immigration opposition, is ready to introduce migrants. Socialists, Gyurcsányek, Liberals and Jobbik have repeatedly demonstrated that they cannot be expected to defend the country. Now, in the course of the quota ruling, they did not support Hungary. [[Adam Mirkóczki: What is it?]] . We, pro-government representatives, would be most pleased if at least a national unit could be created against the compulsory resettlement quota, but unfortunately we can see that the opposition does not regard this as a national issue but as a party policy issue. We can also recall that for some time, the left was also trying to deny the existence of illegal migration from party policy considerations. We can remember, as Ágnes Kunhalmi said in mid-2015: "Immigration is just a fake problem. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then they attacked the fence building and then tried to make the Hungarian people believe that the mandatory quota does not exist. The Prime Minister also quoted a number of sentences from the left which show this. Now, however, a court ruling also denies these left-wing statements. Meanwhile, in recent months, they have made it clear that they are ready not only to break down the fence but also to carry out the quota they have previously declared non-existent. Both in the Hungarian and in the European Parliament, they have taken their stand in favour of the quota, sometimes in the open and sometimes in the envelope. For example, when we decided here in Parliament in November 2015 to refer the quota to the European Court of Justice. This law, the law on it, was no longer supported by the left. Then, when the government issued a referendum on the quota in 2016, the opposition, in great agreement with Brussels, attacked it from the first minute to the last. The left was open, and the Jobbik boycotted it under the grass. However, after the referendum sent a clear message, we initiated a constitutional amendment aimed at preventing the introduction of migrants. Of course, the opposition has also prevented this. In addition to the Gyurcsánys, Jobbik voted against it; the Jobbik, the president of which previously said that anyone who does not vote for this amendment of the Constitution, is a traitor. But the opposition not only defended the quota in words, but also in actions. For example, Gyula Molnár, president of the MSZP, argued for the adoption of the resettlement quota, who said that in European cooperation, if there are elements that are not so favourable to Hungary, they should be accepted sometimes. There's no clearer way to put it. The Gyurcsányek specifically collected signatures for the quota, and the DK proudly announced that they would accept the quota. But Gábor Vona never said no to the quota. In fact, the president of Jobbik, on one of his commercial television shows tonight, said that it was possible to think about installing a few thousand people. So he thinks a few thousand people, a few thousand migrants, could come. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You're not ashamed!?]] I understand my good fellow Members that they do not like this, but would you please argue with your president, he said this literally? [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I was literally quoting him. The opposition also diligently pressed the button in Brussels when it voted on the resettlement of migrants. Over the last year and a half, two European Parliament reports have been produced on the acceleration of migration. One has set a fine for those countries who do not support the quota, and the other report said that the resettlement of migrants should be accelerated and the unification of migrant families should be facilitated. From Tibor Szanyi to Csaba Molnár, MEPs on the left voted in favour of these European Parliament reports. We can therefore see that, in addition to the plan described by György Soros, there are also the leaders of the European Union and the pro-immigration opposition. They are ready to introduce migrants, and this is particularly frightening in the light of the fact that the European Commission's Commissioner for Migration, Mr Avramopulos, announced immediately after the quota judgment that they wanted to establish a permanent resettlement programme without a cap and that the Commission's proposal on this matter will be made this year. On the other hand, our opinion, the opinion of Fidesz-KDNP, is strong: we do not want Hungary to become an immigrant country, so we ask the government to bring pressure from anywhere, the government must resist. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-16	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-09-18-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, there are many things that can be measured by opposition representatives, measured by their voice, and measured by their vote, how they voted here in Parliament, when it was necessary to protect Hungary and how they spoke in Hungary, and, above all, how they spoke to foreign news agencies abroad or abroad when they were asked about the issue of immigration, the question of fence, quotas or the whole process of stopping immigration. Because what is now happening in Europe, especially in the Western part, is not an integration, not the integration of Western civilization with immigrants, but an invasion, the mass emergence of the Orients, the creation of a completely separate parallel society. And indeed, there are those who can bear it, and even some who would contribute to it being realised, this is the Soros plan, part of which is to create a separate agency that constantly, every working day, deals with how to motorise immigrants' deployment in Europe. However, there would be a financial incentive, as it would give 9 million HUF in support over a number of years to all those who want to enter Europe, and would like to break down any barriers, obstacles, legal or physical obstacles, such as the Hungarian fence or Hungarian legislation, which are trying to stop it. On the other hand, Brussels' plan, the Soros Plan, would provide for such a process with financial incentives, primarily covered by bonds, to relocate one million people to Europe. [[14.10]] To add, this one million people is nothing compared to the number of people born every year in the poorest countries. So the policy that relocates people from poor countries to Europe, to the richer half of the world, is less capable of reducing poverty in the world than the programmes that I would like to address at the end of my speech, which help people locally, not to mention the effectiveness of the amounts that can be used, as the sums used in the homeland are worth more than that in their own environment. We see that the opposition is afraid of consultation, national consultation, as the devil is afraid of incense smoke, because they and their constituents will face a clear situation. Fidesz-KDNP succeeded in halting the process that threatened Europe, threatening this part of Europe, Hungary, and more and more people came, since in 2015 there were 391 thousand illegal border crossings, 18 236 in 2016 and this fell to 1184 in 2017. Here in Parliament, during every debate, every vote, the opposition questioned the ability of the government to stop the process of immigration in this part of Europe, the border section of Hungary, but we managed to do so, and the number of immigrants and illegal border crossings decreased enormously. On the other hand, socialist politicians, László Botka, revealed to Reuters that they would disassemble the border fence as soon as they came to power. László Botka said earlier - it has already been said here today - that they were not disturbed by immigrants there in Szeged, either. But the President of Jobbik, Gábor Vona, also took part in this, as he said already in 2013, Islam is the last hope of mankind in the face of the darkness of globalisation and liberalism. So he expects Islam to bring enlightenment to Gábor Vona in the world. On the other hand, when he visited these communities, he said that I did not come to strengthen fleeting diplomatic and economic relations, that others would do, and I came to meet my brothers and sisters to offer a fraternity to bring you the news: the Hungarian is waking up! This is our common mission, the universal task of tourism, to build a bridge between East and West, Muslim and Christian, and to fight together for a better world. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Gábor Vona expected enlightenment from the East, the Muslim world, as he said, and indeed, here in Parliament, when the opposition was in a sharp position, and everyone could make a clear decision about it, clearly and clearly, with a press on whether the Hungarian Fundamental Law prohibits, on the basis of international quotas, without the approval, consent and decision of the Hungarian Parliament, others, through our will, from deciding who we should live with here, in the heart of Europe, in Hungary, then none of the opposition parties sided with the Hungarian people. Yet before him, so many people expressed their common will in a referendum, more than 3 million 300 thousand people than never, almost never at any time in the history of democracy in Hungary, but at this turning point all the opposition's parties stood up to a majority of 98 percent of those who participated in the referendum and voted against the government's proposal to prohibit the introduction of quotas. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is the real face of the opposition, this is the real danger of the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-18	István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech on education and the future of the country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-19	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, In the last week, two major and important documents have been published on the issue of Hungarian education: the World Economic Forum's report on 139 countries and the Hungarian government's publication on the start of the academic year. I'm quoting both of them. First, the World Economic Forum, 16 September 2017:. The quality of the education system is rather low, Hungary does not pay enough attention to the fact that the generations that are growing up are gaining useful knowledge for future prosperity, which in this rapidly changing world can lead to a permanent breakdown of the country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I am now quoting the government's school-starting publication:, A high-quality public education that creates a level playing field, providing competitive knowledge, in which growing generations grow up with real values and knowledge to help them thrive, and educators from both the state and society receive recognition for the importance of their profession. So please, all of you, for the sake of the students, the educator society and the whole country, look forward to the future. So far, the quote. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask you to control the information: in North Korea, they know that they won the World Football Championship, because local news has provided us with this information. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] While the request to look forward to the future, let us say North Korea, is that after Hungary's ranking and ranking position, Romania and Serbia are the only ones left, Croatia, Slovakia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia are no longer in the 12th place, and Slovenia is no longer in the 9th place. That's the situation between quotes and reality. Ladies and Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is no doubt that education is our common cause, the future of the country and the nation, it is worth thinking about together. Thus, when, for example, in the present case in Ukraine, they want to insult and undermine the use of Hungarian languages in education, it is a good and strong message that we are acting in agreement and in cooperation with Hungarians, parties and the Hungarian Parliament in different ways. At the same time, honourable pro-governmentists, we will confront you with your own actions, your broken promises, and we will tell you how we, the MSZP, the democratic side, think about all this. Therefore, here in Parliament today, on the opening day, my fellow Members will confront you, honourable pro-governments, and we intend to address the issue of education in a series of interpellations. To begin with, the fact is that you have broken your promise to the teachers. They said that every educator gets a raise this September, and they don't do that, that's not what they're saying, that's not what they're doing. Therefore, along with Mr. Bertalan Tóth, and in cooperation with the Teachers' Union, we will present your original promise. Vote Your Own Promise [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] I want you to face what you've promised, not to add, not to take anything, at least to make it clear to the country-world how you stand in education. And since in your answers, honourable Secretary of State, I am addressing this specifically to you - they are not talking about the last seven years, but about the last eight years before the last seven years, I will help you a little. The most prestigious survey on international public education, PISA, clearly states that Hungarian public education is in a falling flight, its results are not close to the 2010 results, and the latest survey shows that the result is falling compared to its previous self. During their governance in higher education, the number of audiences decreased by 106,000: from 361 374 to 255 018. That's nasty, Mr. Secretary, and not to be ugly on the certificate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I hope that the electorate will fill it in so that there will be a change of government. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-09-18-20	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-09-18-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, Since you used the word confrontation, the Hungarian electorate was and has a memory of what it meant when the socialists governed Hungary and what the students saw, what the teachers saw, what the schools saw. This was the time when you underfunded the entire public education system and passed this deficit on to the municipalities, that this government had to replace the government's debt of HUF 1200 billion, which consisted mainly of debt due to schools. The Hungarian Socialist Party is no better than the other socialist parties, we know Margaret Thatcher's saying: "I have never seen a socialist government pay off the debts it has taken on. This government, the Hungarian socialists, has done nothing but pay huge debts to the municipalities, which they have not paid. [[14.20]] In Hungary, there was only one government that reduced the wages of teachers. There was only one government after the change of regime, who took the wages of teachers, it was the Socialist Party and the government of SZDSZ. [[Dr. László Kács: Why didn't you give it back?]] No one else has hired teachers in Hungary. [[Dr. László Szakács: I would like to say to the misfarming municipalities: Kaposvár, Hódmezővásárhely, Debrecen!]] The Socialist Party wanted to introduce a tuition fee for everyone in Hungary in general. You can say different numbers, but it really would have cut off a lot of students from going to college. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Now she doesn't even go to college! Anita Herring: They're going abroad!]] And the Socialist Party was the one who wanted to introduce this, and behind the Fidesz-KDNP and Fidesz-KDNP, it was the many supporters and signatories, who voted together, who managed to prevent it in a social referendum in March 2008 to receive tuition fees and hospital daily and visit fees. Because that's what the socialists said to the admissions guys. We even canceled the basic admission fee. This left a billion forints in the last two recruitment periods in the admissions pocket. You would have even charged a tuition fee to everyone. Student loan interest rate increase; or school closures: more than 180 job supply places closed the school gates, there was no school left. How will an 8-10-year-old child get to study closer to his parents and family at school if there are 180 locks on the school door? Because there was no money for that. But what was the money for? There was money for cocoa-proof computers. The system of public education was supplied with cocoa-resistant computers, and a month's wages were taken, more than 180 sites closed down, and 15 thousand teachers were laid off at the same time, as fewer teachers were needed. This is what the Hungarian electorate will say in April or May that they want to do or want to do something else. Honourable Congressman, When do you remember that there was a degree of school development in Hungary that could make the daily school conditions of 200,000 students more modern? [[Dr. István Hiller: 2008!]] more than 400 settlements, more than 500 schools? Because we know that you closed the school in 180 settlements. We renovate the school in over 500 settlements. [[Anita Herring: From the outside! Not from the inside!]] On the outside and on the inside, Congresswoman. I think you had a secretary of state in a period of time, perhaps Gergely Arató. When he sat down at the Public Education Policy Council, he summarized in two words on 7 November 2006 - what a beautiful date - what he was offering at that time, on 7 November 2006 by the then socialist government to the education system. Those two words sounded like, "It's gonna hurt. And it did hurt, too, what they did then with the aforementioned measures. On the other hand, we started a teacher's wage increase, not a month's salary. The last detail of this was what teachers will receive from 1 September this year, and they will obviously see it on their payment notice in October. In previous years, trade unions have lived countless times, even those. Which you refer to as differentiation of certain wage elements, that some people work more, some people work less, some people work better, some people work less well. And the government accepted this proposal and said that on average 3.5 percent of this year's wage increase in the pedagogical sector is possible for those who work better. Who is judged by the director not to pull more than the others, and who doesn't offer this raise. You said that the school principal should have greater authority. Now it's wider, they're against it. Earlier, trade unions said they would not participate in the dialogue because it was not included in the legislation. Now it's legislated, yet they're not involved. They have asked for a differentiated increase before, and now the increase is differentiated, which they are opposed to. Somehow it seems to me that these are more political than professional arguments, but it is certain that the additional HUF 552 billion that this government could push into the system after the socialist government came in handy for the education system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-22	Now it's time for the representative of the LMP, Mr. Ákos Hadházy, Minister, it's time! Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Together with Szabó Timea, the LMP launched a debate on the crisis, crisis and solutions to foreign exchange creditors. It's a crisis, it's a crisis, all you talk about is the refugee crisis, the refugee crisis. It is true that there is one, but it is also a fact that you do not want to solve it, but to use it to avoid talking about other crises and other crises. We're not talking about a problem, we're talking about a crisis, we're talking about a crisis. Each month, implementations are being launched against some 1,500 families, 1,500 lives per month, and, if we multiply by the number of family members, much more lives are being destroyed, even if their lives remain, but lives are ruined. Obviously, a parliamentary debate can't resolve itself. However, it gives us the opportunity to confront you with the actions that you have not done to save foreign exchange credentials, and to confront you with the actions that you should do. It could be a confrontation. They didn't show up in the summer, they must have enjoyed themselves, they could have taken good holidays at the end of the summer, they didn't bother to come to that extraordinary meeting where a moratorium could have been created against evictions, they didn't dare to look into the eyes of foreign exchange credentialers. However, I hope that such a day of debate will give me an opportunity because I hope that some will come when their vacation is over. Such a day of debate can give us hope. We would like to give hope to those people - there are tens of thousands of people - with eviction and execution hanging over their heads every day. We would like to give you hope that you will have very little time to spare now, because soon there will be an election, if a change of government is created, the new government will obviously be certain that the first task is to save these people. We saw in Hungary that the courts could not or did not want to help these people. Obviously, in this case, laws must be changed in order to resolve this crisis, this crisis. Of course, there is also a need to talk about foreign exchange credit compensation, which has a financial basis. On the financial basis, President Matolcsy is now sitting in the National Bank of Hungary. He made that money on the blood of foreign exchange credence, on the sweat of foreign exchange credentials, on the forinting of foreign exchange loans, on the exchange rate gains now, on the purchase of high-value real estates, paintings and luxurious lives for certain ladies as well. I should like to say today, I would like to point out that, of course, helping foreign exchange credentials requires not only spectacular big steps, but sometimes even small steps can help these extremely vulnerable people. The LMP has also tabled two legislative proposals, which I would like to draw attention to, which will help people where implementation is quite close. We would like the valuation, the valuation on which the implementation is launched to be reviewed by these people. Now, at the moment, they are officially providing the value of these people's real estate with the help of the local government, and many times this ends with the auction taking place well below the market price. These people have lost huge amounts of money out of your misdemeanor, the ruling party, and now they're losing even more money than you in the auction, because a lot of people aren't able to afford to appeal or try to get a remedy for bad values. These are huge losses and huge human dramas. We will propose that the State will accept the valuer's fee if the person affected by the foreign exchange execution cannot do so. Finally, we propose that eviction and enforcement can only start with a valid court decision and not be launched on the basis of a notary order for payment. We've received countless requests about the problems that come from this. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-24	I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2017-09-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The question you raised - we all know that - would serve the proposals for solving the mass problem that occurred before 2010. What we can say in this case: we, who have been here in this House since 2010, know very well that on 11 August 2010, this very government took action to postpone the execution of the decision to empty all apartments by the National Assembly LIII. by amending the law. This exempted debtors not only during the winter but also for a full period of time until other measures were taken to improve their situation. This was followed by the Act of 29 September 2011, CXXI, which provided families with the possibility to repay their debts at a reduced rate. With this, 170 thousand debtors were able to live, and they saved some 370 billion forints. After that, all those who could not take advantage of this option could enter the so-called exchange rate barrier, which was set out in the 2011 CXXV. Act created for them, which allowed the interest to be deferred. The number of admissions exceeded 170,000. This also exempted those affected from an interest charge of some HUF 50 billion, resulting in an average discount of some HUF 294 thousand. At the same time, the government and parliament had to take into account the fact that they had to create laws and take measures within the framework of an existing legal system and within the framework of EU law and Hungarian law; they had to take into account the decisions of the Luxembourg court, the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the Curia on the unity of laws. Further measures have been taken along these lines: we all remember the accountability of the banks, where the damage caused by the exchange rate gap and the disadvantages resulting from the unilateral amendment of the contract had to be reimbursed by the debtors. This also provided a discount to all those who belonged to the foreign exchange credit group. Then there was the final relief from the curse of foreign exchange loans, and this was the so-called forinting, where all loans were converted into forints at a reduced rate, except for those who were willing and able to repay them in foreign currency in the future. It is not very appropriate to point back into the past, but in other countries that have fought this fight more successfully, it can be seen that the central bank intervened in time and did not allow foreign exchange loans to be released. Unfortunately, it happened in Hungary and, as you can see, we are still moaning about the consequences of this. It was also about how to help debtors, setting up the National Asset Manager. Here, too, some 36,000 families have resorted to this tool to buy the property they no longer have to repay, and they can continue to live there. More than 32,000 families have taken advantage of this opportunity so far. The institution of debt settlement for individuals and families has also been introduced to protect the weakest. More than a thousand people have already asked to make use of it and more than 2,500 people are affected by this option in the current procedures. And on the initiative of KDNP, the Ministry of Justice is planning further facilitations so that banks can better adapt to this rule system. I believe that all that is possible on the ground of law, both government and parliament, will do in these matters. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the spring, we made a law that allows the sale of real estate by bidding only 100 percent of the value, as well as the winter eviction moratorium is still in place. So it's an unfair accusation that the government doesn't deal with the worst. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-26	I now give the floor to Jobbik's representative, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi; what is it about and what is not about the Jobbik's citizens' initiative on the EU's wages. He will address his speech with a title. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the year, Jobbik Hungary's Movement launched its historic struggle to raise the region of Central and Eastern Europe, to raise Hungary, to rise its economy and to catch up on wages. To this end, it launched a citizens' initiative with seven countries in Central and Eastern Europe to introduce the principle of equal pay for equal work in EU law. This is a declaration of an objective, a goal that was given a green light by the European Commission on 22 May, and we have launched our signature collection to achieve this important goal, according to the order and manner. Meanwhile, Fidesz and MSZP's politicians and paid experts started their discrediting campaign against the initiative. Viktor Orbán, Mihály Varga, several prominenses of Fidesz have started to base themselves on the problem and start the initiative, bidding on Lajos Bokros, Ferenc Gyurcsány and other fallen politicians on the left, and they said that cheap labour is a kind of competitive advantage for Hungary. We understand that you have a grudge against this initiative, because it is about a paradigm shift, a radical change in the neoliberal economic policy that has been and is built on 27 years, which is based on the benefit of multinationals vis-à-vis SMEs, which is based on cheap labour and is based on low wages. The profit generated by the economy is essentially shared by capital and work, and you are on the side of capital, not on the side of the Hungarian workforce. And the cohesion money received from the European Union is basically being spent on corruption channels or completely useless investments by both you and the former MSZP socialist governments. The result is that neither the people nor the state benefit, in general, the economy is shrinking due to declining demand. It is a spiral that results in emigration, poverty, indebtedness, and a catastrophic demography. The common sin of MSZP and Fidesz is that, after 27 years, this is the rate of emigration from Hungary, this is the rate of poverty. I believe it's hard to admit they're wrong. You will not admit that you have been misguided over the last 27 years, and instead you are using your energies to discredit the Wages Union initiative, or you are trying to make the problem go away and explain it to this initiative, which is not really in it. They say it's a political bluff, because it's not possible to catch up on wages overnight. No one has said that, fellow Members. And they say that Jobbik expects Brussels, the European Union, to organise wages in Hungary. This is not true either, we do not want to give up Hungary's sovereignty, nor do they. So what's the pay union really? A real freedom fight for Hungary's rise. Stand up for a new Europe of solidarity, for a new cohesion policy in the European Union, which is about economic catching up and raising wages, and also about the growth of economic competitiveness and productivity at national level. So our Wage Union initiative is both a target definition and, to achieve this goal, a programme, a way forward and a toolbox. It is therefore also about a new cohesion policy within the European Union and about increasing competitiveness and productivity in Hungary. On the one hand, by eliminating corruption, which is the biggest barrier to our competitiveness; with a new tax and contribution policy, which aims to favour SMEs, domestic businesses over the multinational sector, and by transferring state aid to SMEs, not to the multinationals in which you are at the forefront; and, of course, with the organisation of a working and knowledge-based society, education development, R &amp; D, innovation, to create economic growth based on higher added value. This is our goal, from 2018, we will implement what we started from the opposition in the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2017-09-18-28	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In recent months, many have had the feeling that Jobbik has completely lost or lost its political compass; on the one hand, he is increasingly flirting with the left, he has not voted in favour of the anti-quota constitutional amendment, and I could continue the line for a long time. The fact is that what Jobbik is proposing here and, as suggested, it also confirms that Jobbik suffers from acute identity disorder, because Jobbik, if we understand correctly, would entrust wages to EU bureaucrats, and the party that previously burned an EU flag, the party whose president had previously put it in a raised tone in a speech that we would no longer be members! Where he meant to be a member of the EU. Let me ask you and you whether you are serious about trusting wages, Hungarian wages to Brussels bureaucrats will make it better, and the situation of Hungarian wages will be better! ? Do you think that those who have the easiest access to the largest multinational companies would raise the Hungarian wages? You can't be serious. You can't be serious. I have to say that the experience of the energy sector has not been studied enough, because the countries that have entrusted the energy market to the multinationals and Brussels have had huge price increases. As an example, let me say to you that between 2010 and 2015 the price of electricity in the liberalised European electricity market increased by 20 percent and gas by 25 percent. There could be a barrier to this, where the state intervened in the processes through regulatory price regulation, and this was the case in Hungary, which made it possible to reduce the costs. After that, Gábor Vona and his party would leave the wages of Hungarians to officials in Brussels, and he would appoint an official in Brussels, which he also proposed in an interview. It's frivolous! Wage increases are very important, very important, but Jobbik's proposal is frivolous. I'm not going to go into that now, and you said that you have international partners, Jobbik is recruiting a partner for this operation, like a Croatian neo-Nazi, he would raise the Hungarians' wages, according to you. It's totally frivolous! If the wage increases were really important to Jobbik, then the party president, your party president, would have voted at the end of last year for the tax cuts that would facilitate wage increases in Hungary. If you would like to know what Jobbik would do in this area, then feel free to visit Tisavasvári, where the wages of the right-wing leaders have increased, some have received a 30 percent increase, but the public employees have received a zero forint increase. It's in the official document there. Regardless of Jobbik's frivolous proposal, wages need to be increased in Hungary, because there is still room to raise them, which is why the minimum wage has increased by 15 percent from January, and therefore the minimum wage for skilled workers has increased by 25 percent, which is why sectoral wage increases continue, among other things, in health care. You know as well as I do that, if you are dealing with this issue, that average wages in Hungary have increased by 12 percent in one year, but this has not happened in a long time. Allow me, honourable Member, to bring one more question here, because it is current and because Jobbik's identity disorder is spectacular in other matters. Take, say, the issue of immigration. Not quite a year ago, many serious things happened: on the one hand, Jobbik did not vote in favour of the anti-quota constitutional amendment, and to make this worse, your party president in a TV interview said that if only a few thousand immigrants were to be admitted, then okay, that's what we can talk about. Your fellow Member just denied that statement, and I suggest you look back at the TV footage from that time. I am bringing this to you because a recent quota decision, a court ruling on the quota decision procedure, has been issued, and it is clear that it would open the door to the mandatory allocation procedure without the upper limit. Honourable Congressman, Here, too, we would like to tell you that if you let a few thousand people in, then the Jobbik could mean a few tens of thousands later, and then hundreds of thousands, this risk would be unleashed on Hungary by Jobbik. In view of this policy, the question arises as to what these turns are, what is the directing principle of Jobbik's uncontroversial confusion, because one day they will burn an EU flag and the next day they will give powers to Brussels. It is clear, then, that only a company that really has two things that matter: money and power. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-30	The last comment before today's agenda is given by Congressman Gulyás Gergely, on behalf of Fidesz:, Is there a compulsory quota? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-31	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We now know the decision of the European Court of Justice on 6 September. The decision of the European Court of Justice means, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his speech before the agenda, that there is a compulsory quota, the legislative procedure for the adoption of a compulsory quota was in order, according to the European Court of Justice. The Hungarian Government has a different position, but of course we respect the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The question is, what's next? It follows, first of all, that the alarm we heard from opposition parties and the criticisms expressed by opposition parties that there was no compulsory quota and that the referendum on this matter would have been unnecessary on 2 October 2016 have been clearly proved. What doesn't that mean? It does not follow that we should be different from the other 27 Member States to the obligation to implement it. If we look at the extent to which the 24 Member States that voted in favour of the compulsory quota decision in the Council then implemented it, then we see that the two years expire on 26 September, in the meantime, 120,000 asylum seekers should have been eliminated and up to now about 25 percent of asylum seekers have been allocated. But how unsuccessful and unenforceable this quota decision is, how opposed to common sense, it shows that about 90 percent of the quarter distributed had already left the state they wanted to transfer it to. In this sense, therefore, the fact that the procedure in which this decision was adopted is legal, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, does not mean that this decision can be implemented, applied, and on the contrary: the experience of recent years makes it clear that this mechanism is not suitable for resolving the refugee crisis or the migration crisis within the European Union. The situation is clear: if we cannot protect the external borders, the lack of protection of the external borders will bring millions to Europe. It was precisely the current German chancellor who said on several occasions in the German election campaign in 2013 that today 7-8 percent of the world's population, the Earth's population, live in Europe, compared with 7-8 percent of the world's population producing around 25 percent of the world's overall economic performance, and more than 50 percent of the world's social benefits are being paid by Europe. It follows that if we start from the UN report, which speaks of more than 60 million refugees, internally and externally, that it is entirely logical that if Europe does not defend its external borders, hundreds of thousands and millions will come to Europe. Therefore, the most important thing is to agree that it should not remain without consequences if someone is unable to defend the external borders. This is why the Schengen 2.0 programme of the Hungarian Prime Minister must be prioritised, which means that a state is either able to fulfil its commitment under the Schengen Treaty or, if it is not able, it must contribute to the efforts of other Member States of the European Union to help and protect the external borders. However, if it does not contribute to this and does not comply with its obligation, it must be excluded from the Schengen area, or at least its membership of the Schengen area should be suspended. There will be no other solution, it is completely unnecessary to talk about the distribution of asylum seekers: it will partly destroy the European Union, because the European Union is divided on the issue of the admission of immigrants, and it will not be a solution, as more and more people will arrive. As long as we consider that there are no borders between Member States within the European Union, there are no borders between Member States within the Schengen area, we must also see that everyone will be free to leave the country to which he has otherwise been transferred, as has been the case with about 30,000 asylum seekers who have been transferred out of the 120 thousand over the two-year period. We therefore believe that Hungarian politics needs unity in this regard. It is also our request to the opposition parties to abandon the policy that denied immigration for a while, and subsequently attacked the effectiveness of external border protection, the fence, and in this respect to grant all support to the government for its policy to allow those countries in Europe that wish to preserve traditional European values in their own country to do so and to free their own countries from the danger of immigration. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2017-09-18-32	Once again, Csaba Dömötör has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For more than a year, we have been saying in every existing place, here in Parliament, that the resettlement quota system is bleeding from thousands and thousands of wounds. There are three basic problems: pointless, illegal and dangerous. It is pointless, because it solves nothing and provides a bianko invitation to millions more; it is illegal because it overrides the powers of individual Member States; and it is dangerous because it dramatically undermines the security of Europe and Hungary in it. The sad thing is that instead of a big breath and a big redesign, Brussels would rather boost the quota programme and now they are openly talking about it. For example, the leader of the European Socialist faction - I'm sure the MEPs here know him - openly said that a mandatory and permanent procedure without a threshold could be started. Ask him. The Italian President of the European Parliament spoke to an Italian newspaper about increasing quotas. At the press conference of the EU Commissioner for Migration, he replied that it was clear from the outset that it was mandatory quotas and that Member States were obliged to participate. Dear House, We cannot go without saying that these proposals are hauntingly similar to those published and written by György Soros, and this billionaire would head off by giving a total amount of HUF 9 million to cover education, health and accommodation costs to all immigrants for two years. In summary, he also calls these proposals a plan, and it is therefore unnecessary to deny it. I raise this in this House because the opposition has denied virtually all dangerous phenomena and failed dangerous proposals in recent months and years. First, they said that immigration was a false problem, then that there was no quota, then they said that if there was a quota, it was not compulsory, but voluntary. If you want to assess the moral state of MSZP, just look at the video on which István Ujhelyi, one of their senior members in Brussels, says with surprising confidence that there is and will not be any mandatory quota. We don't know if it was taken at noon or at night or in the morning, but Ferenc Gyurcsány can only report to him. I could also mention the large picture published on the side of the MSZP, on which Gyula Molnár's face grins at us, where there is the fact that there is a quota in laps. I've got it right here. You're welcome to take a look at the representatives on the left. Of course, behind the scenes, the left was very much in favour of Brussels' plans. The party called Együtt and Ferenc Gyurcsány's party also collected signatures for quotas, and all left-wing parties practically voted in favour of the quota-strengthening resolutions in Brussels. Meanwhile, László Botka made a sneaky promise to an international news agency to break down the border lock. After that, we can say that if it had been for the opposition, Hungary and the Hungarian people would no longer have a say in who comes here and with whom we Hungarians will live together in the future. On the opposition side, the anti-immigration coalition came together. Meanwhile, two million people came to Europe. It's a Latvian quota. It's not voluntary, it's mandatory. So far, they have talked about the distribution of a few thousand people, and now they are talking about a permanent procedure without a limit, and they are openly talking about it. Here we are now, which also means that we are not at the end of something, but at the beginning of a long legal and political battle. Since we do not seem to be expecting any left-wing party in this fight, including Jobbik, the government will turn again to the citizens, we will ask the Hungarians for their opinion in a consultation. Details of this will be provided in the next few days by the government. We want as many people as possible to participate in this dialogue. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] because we do not want to let them decide on matters of our safety, livelihood and culture elsewhere. Whatever the opposition thinks about this, however it will attack the consultation, we cannot leave this behind, which is why we are asking for the support of the Hungarian people again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-09-18-35	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP; Gergely Gaal, KDNP; Gábor Staudt, Jobbik; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Kiss, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2017-09-18-36	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at the World Championship of Intersteno, the international association of stenographers, typists and text editors, held in Berlin in July, Erika Vicai, who is currently in the horseshoe, won the third place of Judit Árvayné Dani. Congratulations on behalf of Parliament and myself And I wish you every success in your work. Dear House, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that because of the death of Congressman György Rubovszky, Mr.Gergely has been nominated from the joint national list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance and the Christian Democratic People's Party. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mr Gaal Gergely's credentials on the basis of the electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr. Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate will be confirmed by the Parliament without debate. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-09-18-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, because of the death of our fellow Member, Dr. György Rubovszky, the mandate obtained by the Fidesz and KDNP nominating organisations on the party list of Members of Parliament in the general election of 2014. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 95/2017. was issued to Mr Gaal Gergely by decision of 25 July 2017. On 28 July 2017, the decision became final at 4 p.m. The transfer of the credentials took place on 28 July 2017. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for Mr Gaal Gergely's credentials at his meeting last week. In the meantime, Mr President, in his statement, he indicated that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. On this basis, the immunity committee has unanimously taken the following decision without abstention and against vote:.The Committee of the Parliament proposes that Mr.Gergely Gaal's mandate be confirmed. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the immunity committee examined at its meeting last week the documents required for Mr Gaal Gergely's mandate certificate. In the meantime, Mr President, in his statement, he indicated that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. On this basis, the immunity committee has unanimously taken the following decision without abstention and against vote:.The Committee of the Parliament proposes that Mr.Gergely Gaal's mandate be confirmed. Thank you for your kind attention. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2017-09-18-38	Thank you, Mr President, for your report. I would ask my fellow Members to check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine, because it will be decided. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies Mr Gaal Gergely's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that with 159 unanimous votes, this House has confirmed Mr Gaal Gergely's mandate. Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to ask Congressman Gaal Gergely to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to rise for the time of the oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Gergely Gaal steps into the middle of the room. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2017-09-18-39	I, Gergely Gaal, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2017-09-18-40	After taking the oath, I would ask Mr. József Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature by the Member, and Mr. Congressman to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Gergely Gaal and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] [[15.00]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to wish our new fellow Member, on behalf of all of us, successful work and good luck. I would like to inform you that Congressman Gergely Gaal is working as a member of the KDNP Group in the future. I would like to announce that the number of Members of Parliament is 199 again. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Ms Bernadett Szél has informed me that, under the provisions of the house rules, Mrs Márta Demeter has joined the political group of May Others from 1 September. I wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the Parliament's autumn session in 2017, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, one representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative applying for a speech shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask if anyone wants to take that opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, one representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative to be heard shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask if anyone wants to take that opportunity. (No applicants.) I don't think so. Now it's Parliament's decision. I ask this House whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the autumn session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted a proposal for a working order with 115 votes in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that card calendars containing the Parliament's autumn schedule for 2017 will be distributed to the meeting rooms on tomorrow's meeting day. I would also like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which interested parties can learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has presented its recommendation to this effect, which can also be accessed through the IT network. Dear Parliament, At last week's meeting of the House Committee, all political groups agreed that, in accordance with previous practice, Parliament should adopt non-scheduled speeches and derogations from house rules in the interpellation period. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/1739. You can get to know him on the website. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present this nonetheless.
u2017-09-18-41	Dear Parliament, The Parliament shall adopt its agenda for several weeks at its autumn session in 2017 Point 1: HSZ 18. When dealing with exceptional matters within the meaning of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that, on behalf of the Group, its leader or the member of the Group invited by him - the HSZ 18. In addition to the possibility provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the Speaker shall be entitled to make a written announcement to the Speaker no later than one hour before the opening of the first sitting of the second week; point 2: in the course of the discussion of the questions, he shall depart from the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in such a way that on the second week of the meeting, which shall contain the item on the agenda of the questions, only the question which was submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting may be discussed.
u2017-09-18-42	Dear Parliament, We are therefore deciding on a derogation from the house rule, the effectiveness of which requires a vote of four fifths of the Members present. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House adopted a derogation from house rules by 161 votes to two, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. At today's meeting, the House Committee agreed that, in derogation from the house rules, the National Assembly would initiate the H/1739 on the condemnation and action against the law-breaking Ukrainian educational law. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. The proposal for a derogation from house rules was made by H/1739/1. You can get to know him on the website. It is therefore necessary to take a decision again under the former rules. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 162 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions to the derogation from the house rules. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 4:7 p.m. Dear Parliament, At today's meeting, the House Committee agreed to initiate, by way of derogation from house rules, the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, T/17383 on the extension of the limitation period for corruption offences. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. T/17383/1 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You may have found it on the website. We're about to make a decision again. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a derogation from the rules by 163 votes in favour, without voting against, with three abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 16:8 a.m. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place as the last item on today's sitting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. Act LXXIV of 2016 on the protection of the urban image. CLXXIV of 2016 amending Act No. T/17312 amending Act No. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, the consolidated debate will take place on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda, the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I ask you if T/17312 will be accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings, according to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal for an exceptional procedure by 120 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstention. [[15.10]] In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 6:10 p.m. today. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting as item 1 on the draft amendment proposal, and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the draft agenda for the Parliament meeting starting today be added to the H/1739 on the condemnation and action against the law-breaking Ukrainian education law. By negotiating and deciding on a proposal for a decision, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Decision, in such a way that for the consolidated debate of the proposal for a decision, T/17300 on the publication of the Protocol to the Convention between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Estonia on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes, signed in Budapest on Monday, 11 September 2002. Before the general discussion of the legislative proposal No. The decision on the draft amendment and the final vote shall take place on our meeting on Tuesday 19 September, tomorrow. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also suggested that the 1991 XLI on notaries. T/17267. The general discussion of bill No 1 should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the House has also adopted this proposal. The Fidesz Group has further proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest 12:00 on the Tuesday meeting of the Parliament. All those in favor of this, please let me know by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of Parliament has also accepted this proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to discuss the activities of the Economic Competition Authority in 2016 and the experience gained during the application of the Competition Act in relation to the application of competition purity and freedom of competition B/15967. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 120 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Assembly Committee on the activities and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2016 B/17078. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee by 120 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. Dear House, The election of Commission officials will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/17397 presented by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2017-09-18-43	Dear Parliament, 1. 13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Point 1 of Parliamentary Decision No 1 is amended as follows. Dr. György Rubovszky, KDNP, President, Dr. Imré Vejkey, KDNP, with effect from 19 September 2017, elected Dr. János Hargitai as Chairman of the Committee instead of Dr. Imre Vejkey to the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 18 September 2017
u2017-09-18-44	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/17397. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the personal proposal unanimously by 166 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Central District Court of Pest is on page 25B/1155/2017/2. In his order No.3 L. Simon László, a member of the Parliament of Fideszes filed a motion for the suspension of his immunity in a private charge. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/17250. Mr L. Simon presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of Parliamentary Representative L. Simon. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before that, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the chairman of the committee, who intends to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-45	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Court of Justice of the Central District of Pesti 25 B/1155/2017/2. L. Simon László, a Member of Parliament, filed a motion for the suspension of his immunity on the basis of Gyula Stotz's complaint for the offence of defamation. According to the report, our fellow Member appeared on 17 March 2017 in ATV's Straight Speech and made a statement during the interview with him that it was presumed that the Hungarian Publisher's money would be disposed of. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has been observed on behalf of Mr.László Kapolyi and the indictor. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 5 September 2017. Our fellow Member, L. Simon László, informed the committee in advance that he would accept the decision of the Committee on immunity and Parliament, but he considered the complaint to be unfair. Based on the unbroken practice of the immunity committee, there was no majority in the vote on the motion to suspend immunity, so the proposal for a resolution is that the parliamentary MP L. Simon László should not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-46	I will ask Congressman L. Simon László if he wishes to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[L. Simon László: No, thank you.]] If not, then it will now be decided. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether L. Simon László is suspending his immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not suspend immunity in respect of Mr László L. Simon by 20 votes in favour, 139 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker is the 51/A Act on Parliament. Paragraph 1 of Article 13 is replaced by the following: Acting under the authority of Section 6 of the Act, Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy ordered a reduction in the due fees of LMP representatives. Members asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions, but the committee did not agree in either case. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker. In view of this, the house rules are 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/17400, I have put forward proposals for decisions under my presidential authority. and H/17401. in figures, the same content as my previous decisions to reduce Members' due fees. [[15.20]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests made by representatives and the decisions of the Committee on immunity were made available on the website. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposals for decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of a Member, the decision of the Speaker is annulled by the Parliament, the due fee of the Member is not reduced, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall terminate the proceedings brought against him. The Speaker's decisions on the reduction of the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Dr. Bernadett Szél is maintained in the scope of the H/17400. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House maintained the decision by 116 votes to 44, with no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Dr. Ákos Hadházy is maintained in the scope of the H/17401. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House also maintained this resolution by 116 votes in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the text of the adopted decision on the representatives of Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy.
u2017-09-18-47	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act - hereinafter referred to as Ogytv. - 51/A. Acting under the powers of Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy, Parliamentary Members of the Ogytv. 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Bernadett Szél has reduced the due fee of the President of the Parliament, OE-40/585-1/2017. OE-40/586-1/2017. This Decision is addressed to the Kingdom of Norway. With this Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy Parliamentary Members' due fees will be reduced by HUF 100,000.
u2017-09-18-48	Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:23 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Under the authority of paragraph 4 (a), Mrs Márta Demeter K/16629, K/16630, K/1666, K/1666, K/1667, K/16748, K/16749, K/177089. and K/17090. He rejected his written questions because the motions were not part of the mandate of the Government. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. The legitimate need of the people living in Sajó Valley is to build the bypass sections of Route 26. It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-09-18-49	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about not building the 26 bypass. One of the crimes committed in the last seven and a half years. On average, more than 15,000 cars pass through this section of the road on a daily basis. More than 15,000 in a settlement, Sajószentpéter, or the same in Kazincbarcika. We have a motorway where the number of vehicles passing through is less than 10,000. It's a settlement where people live. You know, in the smog map, the most polluted area of Hungary is the region, these settlements. The concentration of particulate matter exceeds the health limit of between 500 and 700 per cent. If there's an accident, there's chaos. There's a problem, there's distractions. Sajóecsegen, Boldván, Edelény, Múcsony is the way around these two settlements. I must also add that in the valley of Sajó there is, therefore, a legitimate need for the 26th bypass to be built. In 2007, the Hungarian Socialist Party decided on the implementation of this programme, adding it to the EU's priority projects, the necessary plans were completed, and the building permit was available. Fidesz allowed the building permits to expire after the change of government in 2010 and then silently silenced, and subsequently repealed the previous government decision. It has taken a new decision saying that it will implement this project by the end of 2016. In fact, he promised me that he would add to the other 16 kilometers by avoiding Vadna, Dubicsány, Putnok. On 3 April 2014, my fellow Member, Zoltán Demeter, held a press conference a few days before the election, which said that, of course, this would be done by 16:00. My fellow Member! Look up at the gallery, in the eyes of the people you promised to do so in front of. What's going on today? In 2016-17 there is no road, and their own implementation plan in 2016 has been cut off, and until 2022 there is not a single penny, neither European nor Hungarian, to build this path. It would be money, of course, if it were Slippery. Then there's a train, then there'll be a helicopter landing, everything will be. But I have to say and ask, why are you blocking the construction of the bypass of Route 26 in this area? When are they gonna build it? I don't think so, because they won't be able to. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-50	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Welcome, fellow Members. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Your interpellation basically concerns a professional issue that I believe none of the people present will dispute. However, your speech is essentially political, so allow me to explain the history of Route 26 to the House in a larger context. I would like to point out that the socialist-liberal government in this region has not built a single one metre road. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In 2002, they handed over the M3 road, 30 days after the election, saying that you built the Füzesabony-Colgar road. No. You didn't build it in 30 days. We built it; you handed it over, which is right and right, because the people who live there needed it. But you didn't build it. After 2002, Péter Medgyessy came and promised 600 kilometers of new motorways to that area. One meter hasn't been built from this. Then, Prime Minister, he failed before his road construction budget, and then in 2006 your new promise was made. So it's an older story. At the same time, the government decision you mentioned, which the government has recently taken, provides for the construction of the M30 road between Miskolc-Kassa, thereby returning this missing basic spinal path of Hungary's northeast region. As far as road 21-25-26 is concerned, the government has previously decided to build Ozd's approach from the 60-Salgótarján road in the area of Bátonyterenye, and the main routes 23 and 25 between Bátonyterenye and Ozd will be completely renovated along with the corresponding bypasses. This should be completed by the first quarter of 2020. [[15.30]] As far as you are concerned, the government is constantly monitoring the road construction activities of the region and reviewing and updating the recently adopted government programme on a quarterly basis according to the available resources. I am convinced that in doing so, road 26 will also be renovated. I do not expect Congressman to accept my reply, but I ask that the Parliament do so on the basis of what has been said. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-53	Mr. Secretary, you're wrong. Only the roads of the Aggtelek World Heritage Site were renewed between 2006 and 2010 in the region I represent, Edeleny. [[István Szilárd Németh: Humorist!]] But I wouldn't worry about that, but that it doesn't matter to you that you have a permit or no license, because if you have a permit, you let it expire, if you promise something, after a revoked government resolution, you don't do it, you'll withdraw it yourself. Look inside yourselves, see how they do it. They only don't act for the people they have to do for. People on Route 26 have a right to a healthy and decent life. They have a right, and you're robbing them of it. I must also add that you are not interested in Borsodi people. But my biggest problem is that I don't think the regional representative, Zoltán Demeter, is interested either. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. István Szilárd Németh: Alas, alas!]] Because either he doesn't want to or he can't fulfill his commitments. One word for it: you will be swept away like garbage. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. That's why I'm asking if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 36 votes in favour and no votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will the government do something to stop our country from breaking down? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the time of the change of regime, we received the promise from our former leaders that the standard of living of Hungarians could catch up to the desired Western level in the foreseeable future. However, compared to this, our governments followed the programme of economic self-mutilation, which is based on forced privatisation, the collection of discounts for foreign investors, the reduction of customs duties and the cheap labour force. Unfortunately, our accession to the EU has not changed this harmful economic philosophy, despite the fact that we have received the truly serious amount of cohesion money we have received in principle to promote our economic development. How is it that, while our governments justify our membership with EU funds, hardly anyone has seen significant results? In fact, resources have disappeared in the context of corruption channels, or have flown into useless infrastructure projects, spacestones, and even private hunting houses. Sometimes I feel as if an implied pact is binding on so-called net contributors, beneficiary states and EU bureaucrats, so that Western states will receive their payments back through the cheap work of the workers exploited in the backward Hungarian economy and their ever-expensive consumption. It is time to admit that we are on the wrong track and realise that there is a direct proportionality between economic growth and innovation and research and development. Knowledge societies produce higher added value products and guarantee their citizens a better standard of living. In words, the Hungarian government also talks about this and wants our country to be seen as Europe's startup centre, but the reality shows quite differently. Hungary is not only the last in terms of innovation performance compared to the EU average, but even in our region. According to KSH data, while talking about innovation, the government provided 30 percent less funding for R &amp; D in 2016 than in the previous year. While 45 percent of all R &amp; D expenditure came from state resources ten years ago, today it is 26 percent. No wonder the number of research sites shows a drastic fall. Compared to the 2013 summit, there is now a 13,7 percent decline, as compared to the success propaganda. It is not surprising that the EU's average of innovative performance is falling apart, and even according to the European Commission's data, we have already become hosts in our regions. According to data on the factors that stimulate innovation-friendly environment, cooperation between R &amp; D and business, we managed to reach the sixth place from the back of the EU's 28 Member States. That would be the government's view of the 21st century. Is it a strong, proud country of the century? When does the government finally break with economic policy based on cheap labour, when does it realize that our country cannot be a successful country while its industry is limited to assembly plants? When are we going to invest in our future and support research and development with real programmes? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Looking at you and listening to you, the only thing we have in common is the color of our tie, but by the way, [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Gergely Farkas: Are you boasting?]] we cannot fundamentally agree on the situation of the country. In my opinion, at Jobbik Vision, certain questions along with petty political interests are known to everyone. Now, however, you are trying to distort the whole reality of Hungary's judgment. If you'll allow me, I'd like to tell you some facts about why you're wrong. The first is not a Hungarian opinion, I would like to express to you the position of credit rating agencies on Hungary. As I'm sure you know, in August, Standard & Poor has now improved its outlook for the Hungarian sovereign debt rating recommended for investment from stable to positive, and the other two credit rating agencies are likely to do the same. But you also know that you have classified Hungary as all three large credit rating investment categories in the last year. Well, that's the break-off? That's the Jobbik's statement. If the credit rating agencies unanimously say that Hungary's performance is good and Hungary's performance must be recognised, then I think it is worth paying attention. But we can do the same with all the macroeconomic data, economic growth, where we are at the forefront of the European Union, since between 2013 and 2017, the EU's GDP was 8.5 percent, while in Hungary the same figure was 15 percent. But if we look at the issue of employment beyond qualification and GDP, Hungary is also the fourth in the European Union. I don't think that would mean a break. That's what Jobbik's vision for, and that's what it means. The same is true in terms of achieving a persistently moderate inflation environment, as prices in Hungary increased by 5 percent in 2010. This is also true of real wage figures that have been growing for more than four years, as salaries and earnings are worth 24 percent more in Hungary than in 2010. Real earnings were only 10 percent higher in the first six months of 2010, the results of the six-year wage agreement can be traced, as net real earnings in Hungary will increase by 40 percent. The research and innovation data you provide are based on a comparison of a European innovation system, but it does not take into account that the OECD has, from a professional point of view, highly criticalized this ranking compilation and also said that the policy use of the ranking is questionable and therefore not real. However, the numerical facts reported are not real either, as you claim, for example, that the number of researchers has decreased by 13,7 percent, but that the number of researchers has increased in Hungary since 2010 as well as the amounts spent on research. [[15.40]] So your claim is not based on reality. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And it doesn't aim for reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-59	I commend the Secretary of State's efforts to establish a kind of consensus on the color of our tie. I appreciate at least as much the effort you make with the facts and the data of the HCSO, but what the Secretary of State talked about in four minutes is a classified case of diversion and misconception. If you are already referring to credit rating agencies, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that Hungary is also a host in terms of macro-data here in the region. Mr. Secretary. You have won two-thirds of the elections; you have had the historic opportunity to put the country on a new path, create a new social, economic and economic consensus, and the 21st century. To respond to the challenges of the 20th century, create a working and knowledge-based society based on innovation, research and development. You've missed this opportunity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't accept the answer. In 2018, Jobbik will put economic policy on a new path. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The government abandoned Hungarian small businesses? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For many years, the LMP has demanded that the government abandon the policy of low wages for Hungarian workers. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You opposed the minimum wage increase! He told me! He said it right here!]] He wouldn't do that until last year. He thought low wages were a competitive advantage, which attracts multinational investors. As a result, we have become an army driver in the region in terms of wages. Since autumn 2016, there has been a turnaround, at least in words. The government suddenly started raising the minimum wage and raising the guaranteed minimum wage, but without taking into account the burden-bearing and adaptability of small entrepreneurs. Under the wage agreement, the minimum wage should be increased by 23 percent in two years and the guaranteed minimum wage by 37 percent. This contribution reduction of 7.5 percent cannot be compensated, thousands of small entrepreneurs are on the verge of being killed. Plus reductions were granted only to large companies and multinationals, with a reduction of 10 percentage points in the corporate tax ceiling. In the meantime, small businesses are also suffering from a gradual shortage of labour, which is due to the government's low wage policy. You could tell in advance, but a lot of small businesses indicate that they're living up to their last reserves, they can't handle double pressure. The situation is particularly serious in rural areas, where some existing small businesses often provide the total number of jobs in the market. The problem, therefore, Mr Secretary of State, is that the government has started the necessary wage increases by putting small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary at a competitive disadvantage and destroying them. It doesn't compensate them, compensation is paid in substance only for the big ones, for the multis. After such measures, it is quite dissonant to say that the government is fighting against multinationals for the benefit of Hungarian businesses. This can only be felt by a few government-wide oligarchs filled with government orders, whose wealth can grow by a hundred billion in a year. Dear Secretary of State, Are they willing to change their irresponsible policies and raise wages without destroying small domestic businesses? This is what we believe is possible with the abolition of the single-key tax, with the progressive tax system proposed by LMP: the net value of the minimum wage is 30 percent, the average wage is 20 percent, but even the net of the double average wage would increase immediately. There is a budget for this, and it would only take the will to increase the income of 90 percent of wage workers significantly and to relieve the pressure on small businesses. There is also a need for a turnaround in support and other policies [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Don't take the interest of the multinationals into account. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-09-18-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm trying to give you a clear answer to your interpellation of several internal contradictions. In your interpellation, on the one hand, the government takes the view that the policy of low wages in post-crisis years has crippled workers and then claims that the rapid wage increases that have taken place will bankrupt small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, it notes that SMEs are suffering from a shortage of labour due to low wages for employees. Congresswoman! It should be decided what they want, because if I may remind you that, like Ferenc Gyurcsány LMP, the socialists, the right-wing Gábor Vona, he has not voted in favour of the tax reductions that the government has brought before Parliament, nor of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Of course, the basic horizontal tax and contribution rules affect workers and entrepreneurs falling within their scope but in different situations, but their impact on economic policy must be interpreted in conjunction with other instruments linked to the normative rules. So let's look at the facts. As a result of the six-year wage agreement and labour market response to labour shortages concluded last November, the average wage increase in the competitive sector in the first half of this year reached 11.1 percent, which showed a significant acceleration compared to previous years. Here's the thing. At the same time, the resulting wage increase was significantly higher, 13,6 percent in the SME sector compared to 9.1 percent in the large enterprise sector. In HUF, this difference is more balanced, but the SME sector still leads to a gross wage increase of HUF 31,800 per month, compared to HUF 29,900 per company. Employment and unemployment indicators clearly demonstrate that, despite increasing wage increases at an accelerated rate, the number of jobs has not decreased or even continued to increase intensively. It is outstanding that this year employment expansion is already taking place entirely in the domestic competition sector, where, according to the latest figures in May-July, the number of employees in public employment has increased by 107 thousand, while the number of employees in public employment has decreased by 40,000 and the number of commuters abroad by 5 thousand compared to the same period of the previous year. More detailed data from KSH show that the increase in the number of employees in the 5-205 population category, i.e. in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, was 4.4 percent in the first half of 2017, which is much higher than the increase of 1.7 percent in large companies. In order to reduce territorial differences - you have also mentioned this - we have developed a regulatory and support system that will guide investors towards disadvantaged areas. In order to achieve these objectives, the programme to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises' job-creating investments was re-published from the 2017 National Employment Fund's central envelope on 1 August 2017 with a budget of HUF 10 billion. Thanks to the programme, up to 5000-5500 new jobs can be created for 1100-1200 small and medium-sized enterprises, and this amount will help to maintain some 10 thousand existing jobs. In addition to the general tax and contribution rules, kata and kiva specifically serve the favourable tax treatment of SMEs, whose value and number limits and, in the case of kiva, additional facilitations have been introduced as of 1 January 2017. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Along the lines of these data, I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-09-18-65	I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary. There was no internal contradiction and no interpellation. Our problem is the practice of a wrong wage increase, a minimum wage increase. LMP has been saying for many years that a significant general wage increase is needed in Hungary. [[15.50]] You, instead of looking at the situation and analysing it in detail, have done it wrong, because you have done nothing but sew the burden of raising the minimum wage on small and medium-sized enterprises, while giving large companies, the multinationals, a 10 percentage point tax reduction. Small businessmen have simply been destroyed. It should have been the warning signal that 5 to 6 thousand small businesses were destroyed last year due to the 6.5 percent wage increase. This year, the 15 and 25 percent minimum wage increase can lead to the destruction of tens of thousands of small entrepreneurs. So they did it wrong. It is necessary, but this would require the introduction of a multi-key personal income tax system.
u2017-09-18-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Representative Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. What legal battles should Hungary fight in order to prevent forced resettlement? It's an address. Congressman Vas Imre has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-67	[[Dr. Vas Imre's microphone is not provided.]] Thank you for the floor. [[For signal:]] Yeah, I'm sorry.
u2017-09-18-68	We will wait for Congressman to put the microphone on, although with such a routine it should have been put on. [[Dr. Imre Vas puts the microphone on.]] I'm asking you to restore time. [[It's happening.]] Congressman Vas Imre has the floor.
u2017-09-18-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The decision of the European Court of Justice in the quota case is entirely contrary to the interests of European peoples and to the security of the European Union. I am convinced that the Hungarian Government must always respect European provisions, such as the Schengen Convention, which contains clear measures on how to protect the EU's external borders. What we must never accept, however, is that anyone other than the Hungarian people should decide who we let into Hungary, who we want to live with. It is also clear from the statements of the last few days that the decision taken in the quota trial is only the first step, since Brussels is taking a step forward and pushing up the resettlement programme. While we were talking about volunteering, case-by-case character, a few thousand people, they are now talking about a mandatory system and permanent distribution, with no upper limit of staff. However, the quota system is completely unreasonable because it does not solve the problem and even offers bianko invitations to millions more immigrants. It is unfair because it overrides the powers of nation states and is dangerous because it ignores the obvious security risks to everyone. The policy has violated European law and European values, with only 25 percent of the targets being achieved by the Member States eight days before the deadline for the decision. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the judgment merely states that the decision of the Council of Home Ministers on a compulsory quota is in line with European standards. This means that there will now be another legal debate in which the Hungarian government will have to fight to protect the country. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: what legal battles must Hungary fight in order to prevent forced resettlement? Is there a risk of creating a permanent mechanism? Can new aspects be raised in the infringement procedure? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to answer his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The judgment of the European Court of Justice delivered on 6 September 2017 concluded the procedure initiated by Hungary and Slovakia for the validity of the decision on the compulsory transfer of asylum seekers. This decision initially aimed at distributing 120,000 asylum seekers. The Court held that, under the circumstances in autumn 2015, the adoption of this Decision was in accordance with Union law, both in procedural and substantive terms. The Hungarian Government takes note of the judgment, despite the fact that the court's argument did not convince him at many points. However, the adoption of the judgments of the Court is a basis of the European Union which, of course, Hungary, as a Member State of the Union, also respects. If the court had accepted our arguments and annulled the quota decision, there would now be no further effort from the European Commission, because the issue of compulsory quotas would have failed then and there. However, the Commission will act with renewed force against certain Member States, even though the application of the quota decision adopted in 2015 for two years expires on 26 September 2017. The following legal battle will therefore take place with the Commission in connection with the mandatory relocation of asylum seekers, unless the Commission recognises that the quota decision is no longer relevant in Hungary or in the Czech Republic and Poland, which are also subject to proceedings. Not only because the application of the decision will expire in a few days, but also because the other Member States did not fulfil the bulk of their existing transfer obligation under the decision, i.e. the decision is in any event a failure for the Union. This is well felt by the fact that only a quarter of all the required relocation obligations have been fulfilled in the last two years. In the infringement procedure, the Commission objects to Hungary's failure to implement the quota decision. Hungary, on the other hand, objects to why the Commission is only acting against three Member States when almost no Member State is doing so. So the double standard prevails. We also object to the fact that the Commission has conducted the procedure by shortening the normal deadlines and by sending messages to the public on a continuous basis. In addition to procedural law, we also have substantive arguments. The Treaty of the Union includes the protection of national constitutional identity, which, according to the Hungarian Government, precludes Hungary from taking on commitments and imposing obligations which could lead to changes of external origin in the population which is part of the constitutional identity. Here, in addition, we are not talking about Homogenity, but about identity being a much wider concept. In parallel with the quota decision, the Commission proposed a permanent relocation mechanism in 2016 in the framework of proposals for reform of the EU asylum system. The main point is that if a Member State received more refugees than a predefined threshold, all Member States would be obliged to take over from that Member State to a certain extent. Hungary does not, of course, support this proposal, as many other Member States do not support it, including Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania. The negotiations in this respect have essentially been blocked, although the Commission and certain Member States continue to urge it to be adopted. In the course of the negotiations, Hungary has made it clear at both expert and political level that it does not agree with the forced implementation of a misinterpreted solidarity, and for reasons of principle that have been followed for a long time, it does not consider the establishment of a mechanism for the mandatory allocation of asylum seekers to be a viable route in the area of migration. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-09-18-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-09-18-73	Yes, thank you very much, I accept the Minister of State's reply, although, as Mr Secretary of State said, the Government has not been convinced by the Court's argument; I am not convinced by the European Court of Justice's argument in this matter either, especially because, as Mr State Secretary said, only three Member States will be brought into infringement proceedings when 27 of the 28 Member States have otherwise failed to fulfil their obligations. At the same time, this obligation to take over was considered to be temporary, according to these rules, and as we know, this provisional obligation expires in eight days. So I think that the government's argument is correct that it refers to Hungary's constitutional identity. I wish the government good luck in this fight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2017-09-18-74	Thank you very much. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-75	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In the last eight years, the Orbán government has not increased the family benefits - family allowance, maternity allowance, children's, children's allowance - by one forint in the last eight years; here I would remind you of the housing support that half a million families received. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! You're lying!]] This means that the most important care for families raising children, the amount of the family allowance, has also significantly lost its value. This year again, the government tried to make Hungarian families believe that they would receive double family support in August. But that just means that the August monthly allowance was not received by the families at the beginning of the month following the month concerned, but a few days earlier. In September, however, no HUF support was transferred to the families. There was a commercial bank that told the customers at the vending machine that they would not receive the family allowance in September, because so many people were interested in it. According to the cosmetics data of the KSH, on average HUF 15 300 is the total schooling cost per school student at the start of the school year. As a practicing mother, I can say that when we finish school, we get a list of what children need to get for the next year, and I don't know which family will be able to buy these from 15 thousand forints. This amount, however, is a very, very cosmetic number if you only buy things that are school bags, books, textbooks, grammar books, booklets, pencils, gym shoes, sports equipment, drawing instruments, instruments, celebrating clothing, plain clothing, and you could still be listed for a very long time. Dear Secretary of State, Do you know that one in five Hungarian families is already forced to save up for the school year so that they can buy the school supplies at the start of the school year? Buying the equipment needed to start a school year is a serious problem for every second family. Today the series of data was published, where it is written that 50 percent of families cost more than HUF 50,000 to start their school year, 15 percent can spend 30-40 thousand forints, 14 percent can spend 20-30 thousand, 7 percent can spend less than 20 thousand forints. The family that spends less is spending so much, Madam Secretary, because they can't afford to buy their children the quality of their school supplies. Madam Secretary, do you think it is possible to start the school year from 15,000 forints per child? Do you have a survey of how many families are seriously affected by the start of the school year? Madam Secretary, we have presented an initiative to increase the family allowance by 40% and to encourage families to receive a double family allowance in September. Will you support him? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-09-18-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to this interpellation. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the school year has barely begun, and even the autumn session of Parliament has barely begun, and we are already at the point where we are used to you, in a completely disoriented way, trying to account for the serious crimes committed by the left on the current government. Yes, there was a time in Hungary, before 2010 there was a period in Hungary when families were driven into a serious foreign currency loan, Hungarian families were struggling with severe debt [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] When they barely had the money to start their school year with their children. They should be recalling what you have made with regard to family support. You have eliminated the family tax breaks, you wanted to tax the family allowance, you have abolished the home-building subsidies, and you have also taken away the third year of the child, so I think we can remember these periods to say that it was really difficult to start a school year, then it was really difficult to start school. What's the deal with that? I would recommend that you look into the 2018 budget, as you will see that in 2018 we will only spend HUF 2000 billion on family support. Do you know how much that amount was in 2010 in your last year of government? It didn't even reach 1,000 billion forints. [[Zoltán Gőgös: And what about the municipalities, Madam Secretary of State?]] This amount has more than doubled, and that means [[Zoltán Gőgös: Where were the municipalities?]] that this is already approaching 5 per cent of GDP. If you look at a family, you will receive a million HUF more support per year than you received in 2010. Only the family tax relief approaches the HUF 300 billion item. And if you are talking about textbooks, honourable Member, then we might recall that, yes, there was a time when textbooks had a lot to pay for. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Even now, it's just silly!]] I had to line up for textbooks, there was chaos in textbook care. What's happening now? Children go to school and receive textbooks free of charge. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's full of mistakes! It's useless!]] All primary schoolchildren are welcome to the free textbook on the first school year of September; more than one million children receive the textbook free of charge in Hungary today. And then let's talk about having a baby. Do you know how much money has been spent in 2010 to support children's meals? 29 billion forints. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: There weren't as many poor people as there are now!]] How much is this in 2018? It's worth 80 billion forints. This means, honourable Member, that we can now provide food for every second child free of charge thanks to the support of children's meals. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] This means over 500,000 families. This includes large family members, among other things, and our goal is to keep this circle at least this size or to expand it further. Or I could say Elizabeth Camps. For 100,000 children only this year [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We provide camping facilities in Elizabeth camps. I'm sorry that you can't be so happy that the poor children who couldn't. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Those who are poor because of you!]] perhaps to get to the shore of Lake Balaton in another way, now thanks to the Erzsébet camp, not by spending tens of thousands of forints a week, but for thousands of forints a week [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Or they can spend a hundred forints a day on vacation at Erzsébet Camp. The early family support in August proved to be very popular, more than 80 percent of the respondents welcomed this opportunity, as it was an additional opportunity for them, and it was able to increase their financial room for manoeuvre. Yes, these are the steps, these are the measures that have really reduced the cost of starting a school year, which really makes it cheaper to start a school year today than it was, say, eight years ago. As far as their proposals for the future are concerned, I wish all of us to spare us the MSZP's family policy. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-09-18-78	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-79	Mr. President, thank you, I don't accept it. You know, Secretary of State, because of the huge shortage of teachers, there are schools where there are no mathematics, Hungarian, physics, biology, chemistry, English teachers, and they can only bring children to the level by special hours, whichever parent can. At the beginning of the year, long-term textbooks, you know, there are classes where 95 percent of parents would rather buy the textbook than face the fact that we erase for two weeks or that the child cannot use the textbook because it cannot be written, it cannot be pulled out, otherwise it has to be returned, and if he accidentally wants to practice in the summer, then the child has no opportunity. You know, Madam Secretary, we start this year by paying toilet paper, paying for soap, paying for copier paper, because KLIK doesn't provide it. And we'll start the year with the gym no longer allowed to use the kids for sports, and we'll have to pay for it, Madam Secretary. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Outrageous! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Since they took it away from the local government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You know, Madam Secretary, we don't want any more of this. We don't want any of you either, you know? !
u2017-09-18-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is an unreasonably heavy burden for families to start school. Unfortunately, the cost of this has increased significantly during your administration. [[16.10]] Since 2012 August and September are the months when most families are forced to borrow money and, as representative research shows, they are forced to do so because of schooling. Thus, there are a significant number of families who cannot cover their children's education obligations from their salaries. Jobbik has on several occasions initiated a radical reduction in the VAT on articles needed to raise children by the government and to make family support follow-up to inflation, all of which are waiting for themselves. This year's school year, however, was not only a problem for families, but also for teachers who were simply lied to their eyes. When the career model was introduced, it was promised that the wages of each of them would increase in September 2017, and then when the time came and the promise should have been fulfilled, legislation was amended, and the opportunity for many to benefit from it was misplaced. In addition, educators can get a raise at the expense of each other, which is extremely unethical and will create conflicts in many places. From January 2018, the gross salary of a junior teacher who graduated from college will be only HUF 2200 higher than the guaranteed minimum wage in Hungary. This is because the career model was not only lied when the current increase was not made, but also when the minimum wage was promised, and it was also not respected, so the value of the teachers' wages is not guaranteed either. Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that there is a shortage of teachers, and professional organisations and the opposition have been asking for years to give pensioners a meaningful opportunity for further employment, but they have not done so either. On this basis, I ask: are you willing to make school start cheaper, for example, by reducing VAT, and when will you stop lying to teachers and offer them a career based on professional basis with decent wages? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm asking who's answering from the state's secretary present. [[For signal:]] Yes, thank you very much. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We've learned more about Jobbik's math. According to Jobbik, the costs of school children will increase if we give textbook packages free of charge from first to ninth grade, and children's costs will increase even if we extend free and reduced school meals to the extent that the coverage is no longer HUF 29 billion than it was in 2010, but is much higher: two-and-a-half times, HUF 79 billion. But we heard the other mathematical miracle weapon, which was also read in the written interpellation. This is the system of family support for inflation. So this would be Jobbik's miracle weapon. But let us count on this: if this had happened, what Jobbik was currently demanding on the government, how would the Hungarian families have walked? In this case, the budget line for HUF 608 billion in cash benefits in 2010 would have increased from HUF 711 billion in 2018, from 608 to HUF 711 billion, while in the budget adopted it would have increased to HUF 954 billion. So if we had calculated the monetary family support according to Jobbik's principles, it would be 242 billion less in next year's budget, with a HUF 221 thousand less per family. So Jobbik is attacking the free textbook system. I don't know why you defend the privatized textbook system in the socialist era, but that's their job, and besides, you're asking for formulas on the government that would have cost hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. Or maybe Jobbik doesn't even know what he's talking about. Sometimes it demands this, sometimes it demands the same or the opposite; sometimes it burns an EU flag, sometimes it expects the increase in Hungarian wages from Brussels. However, in recent years, we have tried to improve the situation of teachers as well as families with children, families with children of school age. This is why we were the first to launch the teacher's career model, of which wage increases are a very important part. The surplus was HUF 32 billion in 2013, 120 billion in 2004, 38 billion in 2015, 34 billion in 2016 and 44,8 billion in this year. Next year, teachers can expect an additional HUF 40 billion item, which is included as a wage surplus in the budget. And let's say a few words about a 3.5 percent wage increase for teachers in September this year! Many times it was a demand from trade unions or opposition to better reward for better performance teachers and not to reward less good teachers to such an extent that school principals have broad powers to see better the performance of teachers on the ground, who draws, who spends more time on children, who raises wages higher than those who draw less and who do not be high. The amount that is available in the budget is still, however, HUF 44.8 billion, but it is not given evenly to everyone, but for whom the school principal says he is doing better, he gets more, and for whom he does not say so, he receives the average or below average. But the average is still 3.5 percent, and I believe that we can find demands from the past not only on the trade union side, but also on the opposition side when they talk about it. However, I think it is important to mention here, on this subject, that 50,000 teachers have accepted the qualification procedure and went through it, so not only has his salary increased by HUF 30-35 thousand, but students can expect even better performance from their teacher. And while we are here, honourable Member, I am interested in your opinion as to whether you believe that some of the pensioners are running from the mouth of sewage, whether their eyes are filled with hatred, whether they are jumping out of each other, whether they want to shed blood with their trembling hands, and whether the XX. The trauma of the century. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Parents and students alike are curious about this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-85	Dear Secretary of State, Under your governance, despite all the measures you have listed here, starting school places a greater burden on families than in 2010. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] It's a fact, it's in every survey, it's not a right-wing statistic, it's a fact. Following the inflation rate of family support does not mean that we will not extend it further, but that it will only ensure its value-proofness. Despite the introduction of the teacher's career model, there is a shortage of teachers in Hungary, and fewer have applied for teacher training in the year of the introduction of the career model than in the previous year. That's how attractive your career is. By transforming the textbook system, public education has lost values, there is no need to return to the textbook system created by the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, but the current one is not good either. I don't accept the answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As you have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the autumn parliamentary period, it is worth looking back at the summer left behind. This year, tens of thousands of children were allowed to vacation in Erzsébet camps at Lake Balaton, and in daycare camps all over the country. During the ten-week school break, the Erzsébet camps not only provide financial assistance to parents, but also facilitate the summer schedule. These camps implement a very beautiful tradition of social responsibility, which has been reflected in the past for several years. When the Fidesz-KDNP government launched this initiative in 2012, I believe that this is exactly the kind of implementation we were thinking of. Camps with public tasks each year offer more and more schoolchildren a meaningful holiday with minimal costs. This is the largest programme in Hungary since then, where Hungarian children in need and in the Carpathian Basin are hosted at Lake Balaton, or are supported by various programmes. On thematic days, ambulances, policemen, firefighters and soldiers presented their vocation to children in the Zanka and Erzsébet camp in Fonódliget. In particular, I would like to point out that children with special educational needs who have a disability or birth disease can also camp with their peers. [[16.20]] Dear Secretary of State, In line with the fundamental policy of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we can support more and more poor families, needy or disadvantaged children, thanks to the government. The great initiative of the Erzsébet camps is also highlighted by its success and popularity in recent years, so all praise is due to the sacrifices of the organizers. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the experience of this year's Erzsébet camps is. How many children could participate in the meaningful programs, and what further improvements will be made by the government so that the organizers can receive the holiday children under modern conditions? I look forward to your reply from the Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the interpellation by Mr Veresné Novák will be given by State Secretary Katalin Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2017-09-18-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Erzsébet camps are a very important element of family support, one of the most important. What are we talking about here? It's about getting kids to the shore of Lake Balaton, getting summer experiences that may not be able to get here on their own, or getting here, or parents having trouble paying for the camps, financing them. And as parents, we also know that a 10-week summer vacation is very good on the one hand, and a challenge for all families, because it is necessary to solve the meaningful pastime of children for ten weeks, the custody of children. This is what we help you through the Elizabeth camps. This year we can receive more children than ever before in the Erzsébet camps. To give concrete figures to the question of the Member, the sleep-in camps, so the parents sent children from over 640 schools to the one-week, five-night, six-day Erzsébet Camps in Balaton, and they applied to the day-care camps from nearly 1,200 schools. Even the overlogging was great. As a result, in 2017 more than ever, a total of 100,000 children were able to participate in the Erzsébet camps. In the summer, 26 thousand people were on vacation in Zánkán and Fonyódliget, in our two Erzsébet Camps on Lake Balaton, and we were able to provide this experience to 2000 Hungarian children from across the border who came from the Hungarian populated areas throughout the Carpathian Basin. We have received 1500 Hungarian children from Transcarpathia and Ukrainian children studying Hungarian in the Erzsébet camps, who have also come home with meaningful experiences, and we did not even know how much of this opportunity, in the light of the current changes in the Ukrainian language law, will gain in the future. During the summer, 55,000 children were able to attend daycare camps. These daycare camps are important, because here near the residence, during the day, from morning to late afternoon, while the parents are working, we offer meaningful programs for children in the area of school and in the form of excursions in the wider environment, and let's say: four meals a day and five meals a day in these camps, so we also think about their meaningful meals. As far as the costs are concerned, parents pay a total of HUF 1 000 for a boarding camp in Erzsébet, otherwise the children can buy it at the camp and 100 forints a day in a day-care camp for the parents they have to pay for it. Another 12,000 children can take part in autumn and spring excursions. All in all, thanks to the Erzsébet programme, we have been able to provide meaningful recreation for more than 500 thousand children so far. And to talk about the plans for the future: the government decided to grant a central budget of HUF 26 billion, which will make the two large camping sites completely renewed. This means the camp of Fonyódliget and Zánka, because the camp has great qualities, but for the person who was there, I myself have been down there several times, and I have seen how the children are enjoying themselves, but we can also conclude that there is still room for renovation in the camps. This will be achieved in the next three years with a budget of HUF 26 billion. This won't bother the camping children at all, just like every year, every summer, the camps don't close. So camping will continue to take place undisturbed in the coming year, and the capacity of the Erzsébet camps will double by 2019. So from 2019 we will be able to provide experiences for 60,000 Hungarian children in the Erzsébet camps in the summer. As far as the future is concerned, I can also promise to the Member, this House, that we will also continue the Elizabeth programmes, as we will only expand all aspects of family support. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-90	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask the Member if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your reply, Madam Secretary. Of course, I accept this answer, KDNP is also the party of families, which is why we bear the fate and situation of Hungarian families and Hungarian children in our hearts, so we supported and therefore support all the efforts and programmes of the government that have made Hungary a family-friendly country. After the change of regime, for two decades, for families and children in need, the holiday was just a dream, and it is therefore very important that the Erzsébet programme, growing and growing year after year since 2012, has finally created conditions and government support for all of this. I think that this programme is therefore very important and I wish that we will continue to strengthen and support this programme. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Congressman has accepted Mrs. Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the design, construction and commissioning of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the Orbán government's regular horse-zung, the planned Paks expansion is Hungary's largest economic development project. We believe that a government that expects an investment to boost the economy that is developing slower than its competitors will issue a poverty certificate of itself, in which, according to preparatory studies, up to 3-4 thousand people and mostly foreign migrant workers will work. The project, if implemented at all, will obviously have some impact on the economy, but it does not matter at all whether the HUF 4-5-6,000 billion that domestic taxpayers will be forced to spend on Viktor Orbán's nuclear dream will spin the Hungarian or Russian economy. The omens are the least encouraging. From the experience so far, for example, if we start from spending on communication and preparation for future enlargement, the unprecedented amount of money will enrich primarily Árpád Habony, Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna and the Orbán family. However, the outcome may easily become even more mournful. Minister Süli recently said that the Hungarian government will not have a say in what companies will build Paks II. This will be the responsibility and responsibility of the Russian state company, the Rosatom. Secretary of State, we would like to tell you that the company behind Rosatom and Vladimir Putin has not been particularly shy to represent the Russian interests. Perhaps you haven't forgotten: in February, President Putin, even through the most basic rules of courtesy, humiliated his host and Hungary here in Budapest, explained to Viktor Orbán in front of a multitude of microphones and cameras that even though we could obtain cheaper funds in the international financial markets, there is no way to back out of the Russian euro loan with a 5-percent interest rate. For the Russians, this business is not about friendship, it's about harsh advocacy. You, on the other hand, promised 40 percent Hungarian share of a business that Vladimir Putin had long taken over. In view of this, please explain why the country needs an investment that you have acknowledged in your agreement with the European Commission that it will never be repaid and that it will not mention anything other than the rebuilding of the Hungarian economy by the Russians. [[16.30]]
u2017-09-18-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Attila Aszodi, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say that the construction of a nuclear power plant is a very special task, and there are only some energy actors in the world who can carry such a nuclear power plant project from design to licensing to construction. Although Hungary is among the thirty countries in the world in which significant knowledge has been accumulated about the operation of nuclear power plants, we certainly need foreign companies to carry out construction tasks so that the power plant can be built in a modern way, in accordance with the appropriate quality and safety conditions. This is why we have chosen the scheme that the main contractor is responsible for the implementation of the entire project, so that the two nuclear power plant blocks that are built in the project meet the quality, nuclear safety standards. The main contractor is responsible for selecting subcontractors that will be able to do this work, and once again, under the quality and nuclear safety conditions laid down in laws, standards; this is the technical framework that is necessary to enable this project to be implemented properly. At the same time, domestic companies can also participate in the implementation of this great work, since the 2014 II. In law, the Parliament set the goal to allow domestic businesses to participate in 40 percent of the project, thus creating domestic jobs. In addition, the domestic economy is also affected by this plant building, since it is estimated that about 8,000 people who will work within the fence will work for tens of thousands of people through an approximately seven-fold multiplier effect in order to be able to complete the service, and they will be able to do the work within the fence. The 8,000 people who will work within the fence will pay taxes in Hungary and will consume in Hungary, and will have a significant positive economic impact on the Hungarian economy through various mechanisms of action. The further impact of this construction is that Hungarian companies who are involved in this construction can later participate in other international projects as subcontractors of the main contractor, so they can enter the foreign market and thus participate in this very important work in the long term, creating and maintaining additional jobs. The further economic stimulus of this investment is that in the long term, for sixty years, electricity will be available cheaply in Hungary, so all the industries that need electricity to operate, this basic service, electricity supply will be available cheaply, and the two new blocks will also provide electricity cheaply for the population. As regards financing, I would like to note that the Parliament discussed in detail the financing interstate contract in the summer of 2014, which states that Hungary has the opportunity to prefinance the loan in Russia at any time without any additional costs. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is stipulated in law that this condition remains available. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the power plant will generate electricity cheaply by making this investment profitable. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] will make a profit for Hungary, the Hungarian state, all Hungarian citizens. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-97	I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply, although the Secretary of State has said very surprising things here, namely that this investment will be profitable and will generate profits. Up until now, you have said that this investment will not be profitable. [[Uproar, interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's what you said!]] So here's a very interesting statement. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The second is that you promised 40 percent of the domestic supplier ratio, but no guarantees were given, so it will probably be that this is a promise category; even because according to a preparatory study carried out in the Teller-Lévai project, for example, there are hardly any Hungarian-owned players in the Hungarian economy who could be a nuclear power plant supplier beyond the concrete category, so too many can not count, and there have already been plenty of foreigners promised to participate in this project. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You say it's cheaper. It won't be cheap. Wind energy and other renewable energy will be a fraction of the price of nuclear energy, so this is a very bad investment.
u2017-09-18-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 14 against and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member István Németh Szilárd, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Do multinational companies still consider us to be second-class? It's an address. István Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, For some time now, the Visegrád Four countries have been trying to draw the EU's decision-makers' attention to the fact that multinational companies market products of different quality in the Western European and Eastern European markets under the same brand. This is nothing more than an open message that we Hungarian consumers can only be second-class EU citizens. The V4s, headed by our country, clearly consider this practice to be discrimination, affecting some 100 million EU citizens across Central and Eastern Europe. The Hungarian Government is committed to resolving the problem as soon as possible and seeks to combat this humiliating situation by various means: in addition to trying to keep the subject on the agenda in the European Parliament and in the EU's Agriculture and Fisheries Council, it calls for a common solution, and it also carries out ongoing discussions with the Member States concerned. We cannot allow multinationals to cheat consumers on the markets they consider to be secondary; we Hungarian consumers must also have access to products of the same quality as Western Europeans. Meanwhile, further and further supporting studies will be carried out. Last time I checked, Nébih made a comparison of summer seasonal products, where there were also significant results, and also changes to the rules on food labelling are taking place. It is of particular importance that consumers have the right information to decide whether or not they want to consume foods of different compositions and thus of different quality, i.e. of lower quality. Of course, the opposition does not care about this issue, because it is not the interests of Hungarian consumers and Hungarian people that they care about, but the protection of the multinationals is almost traditional and the fulfilment of the election schedule of George Soros. Obviously, they can consider Hungarian people to be inferior in the EU, as professional implementation of the Soros plan is more important for these opposition parties in this situation. Dear Minister, In view of the above, I would like to ask what results have been achieved in the investigation of seasonal products. Will there be further studies on this subject? What were the results of our initiatives to change food labelling rules? Does the European Union support us, or does it formally confirm, that it can accept the marketing of secondary foods? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Sándor Fazekas will give the answer to the Member's interpellation question. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2017-09-18-101	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank the Member for the question, that he raised this important problem, because I agree with the Member that we cannot allow Hungarian people to be deceived by the multi-companies, we cannot allow them to sell products of lower quality under the brands of companies introduced as a result of sound advertising campaigns in Central and Eastern Europe, in Hungary than in the western part of the continent. It can be seen that some large multi-company companies have already had a lot of practice in this regard. Hungary raised this issue, and the V4 countries joined us. There have been several investigations over the past few months. In March 2017, there was also a comparative study, and now in the summer we examined a total of 39 product pairs, 23 packaged foods, 8 alcoholic beverages and 8 vegetables and fruit. The investigation I ordered found that about one third of the products were either compositional or sensory differences, so let's say that the product or drinks marketed under the brand name were made from cheaper raw materials. It's a food forgery, actually. We therefore need to protect the customers who are being deceived, so using all the tools of diplomacy at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council we took the Hungarian-Slovak initiative, at V4 level there were several consultations, and it is surprising to me that President Jean-Claude Juncker, on behalf of the Commission, gave us the truth in his opening speech on 13 September, that is to say Hungary and the Member States that raised the problem of the dual quality of food. The Commission allocates EUR 1 million from this year's budget for food quality testing and is willing to change the necessary legal environment. This is certainly a snap response to those who have tried to deny the fact of the dual quality of food, whether in the press or in some of the opposition MPs, a number of opinions have been expressed that this problem does not exist, this problem was invented by Fidesz or by the government. Indeed, the opinion of the Hungarian people confirms that this outrageous form of dual quality of food and forgery of food is a real problem and that a solution must be found. On the one hand, there is a need to amend EU legislation so that we can intervene at EU level in all Member States, on the other hand the government is not inactive, the FM is not inactive, on 12 July the government adopted the 20-point action plan presented by the Ministry of Agriculture, which concerns the most diverse areas. On the one hand, we will continue the tests. The facts and data, the circumstances, will also be made public so that multi-enterprises can learn to follow the law. Let us also pay attention to what the Hungarian people are buying, look at the subtitles of the products, and find out about them by creating a conscious customer behaviour. This complex package of measures, which, I trust, achieves the desired goal, the goal that we can define in such a way that the Hungarian people also need quality, healthy, good food on the table, is included in the development of the official quality control work, the various campaigns, the equipment of the labs and the development of the authorities. We need to check the requirements for food production from land to table, whether domestic or foreign imports. Thank you for asking, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-102	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Member if he will accept the Minister's reply.
u2017-09-18-103	There is nothing to be surprised that the opposition has said that there is no problem, that there is no problem, only we have come up with the idea that they are giving us poor products under the same brand, and even more expensive than they are in Vienna or Paris. The same was said about illegal migration when 400 thousand people, migrants, walked across the country in 2015, crossed our country. The same was said about the compulsory quota, by the way. It is no coincidence that Soros's name has been mentioned above, because they are now saying the same thing about the Soros plan, that it doesn't exist, and this whole thing can be treated together. Because if they shove it down our throats that we're second-class citizens, we're backyards of Western Europe, and they do what they want us to do, they're gonna push our quota. It is clear that the opposition cannot be expected on this issue, but only money and power are important to them. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you very much, Minister, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, After the change of regime, the first completed basic curriculum was completed by 1995, after extensive preparation. This document also sets out central and local requirements that can be applied at school level in some regions. The new curriculum, which was revised for 2000, already included three levels of regulation, followed by the new National Basic Study Plan, which reduced detailed content requirements, i.e. normative curriculum content, and increasingly trusted the Hungarian teachers. In 2012, this trust was broken by the National Basics Plan set up unilaterally by Fidesz. You have written a basic curriculum that demoted teachers from independent, creative professionals who take responsibility for children to subjects, parrots, basically to read machines. The 2012 Fidesz basic curriculum reflected that you simply don't trust Hungarian teachers, or that you think something else is important than the advance of Hungarian children. Your 2012 basic curriculum is a remnant of a fairly old age that contains an unteachable and unteachable amount of teaching material. There were five years of study in this environment, so far, so many years of children have suffered the boredom, overload, and senseless ciphering of NAT. The many parents and teachers who study at home with their crying children by 9:00 p.m. and who were forced to force the government's expectations in the classrooms also suffered. And it's obvious that you're gonna keep centralizing. With all due respect, Secretary of State, please answer the following questions. Who, and exactly, spend HUF 2.4 billion writing a basic course on what exactly? I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary whether the results and conclusions of the professional methodology and education research programmes at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences will be included in the curriculum preparatory work. What professional or social preparatory debate or work preceded planning? Which students, classes, grades, types of schools will be covered by the new National Basic Study Plan? Will the curriculum be valid for students in vocational schools and secondary schools? Finally, can Hungary expect that the new National Basic Training Plan will be less overwhelmed and centralised? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-09-18-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer your interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When we plan the National Basic Lesson Plan or anything about the future of young people, we have to start from the fact that two thirds of the students who attend school today will work in a workplace that does not yet exist, which has not yet been created, which will be created in ten, twenty or thirty years, but we still need to prepare today's schoolchildren for a job that is not yet in place. It is therefore important that the preparation of the National Basic Training Plan is based on a very broad consultation. The past period has been a very intensive period in both professional dialogue and expert dialogue. What does the National Basics plan have to be like? Young people must certainly give competitive knowledge, something that they can renew in their lives, something that creates value, because we do not believe in value neutrality, we believe that every young person must commit to important values, and it is important to know what holds the nation together, and it is necessary to have a fair school that doesn't give everyone the same thing, but who needs a little more, who doesn't need it so much, doesn't overburden the student there. And it is also important to have a XXI. At the beginning of the 20th century, we need to create a national basic curriculum, which is not XX. It is of the century, since globalization, digitization and the sustainability of the entire planet are in a different state. Therefore, the skills that we require both young people and teachers to pass on these skills have also changed. This is why both content and methodological renewal must be carried out in the National Basic Training Plan. What will be different from the previous national basics is the relationship between theory, practice and application, the proportion of each other. This is built on new foundations because the new National Basic Training Plan places greater emphasis on the use of acquired knowledge and skills, and puts greater emphasis on the use of knowledge, precisely so that young people can get the knowledge that can be used in practice as much as possible, so that they can obviously acquire basic education over the course of school years. [[16.50]] It is important to have educational levels, national education standards in grades 2, 4, 8 and 12, so that they do not fall behind one student in school compared to another. Not only the NAT, but the development of the master plan and the preparation of the teachers are included in the project you are talking about. In fact, there are not only domestic experts in the committee invited by Minister Valéria Csépe, but also Finnish, Estonian, Flemish and other professionals, Hungarian and foreign university teachers, academics, practitioners and curriculum development specialists. His entire base is at Eszterházy Károly University, where a research institute was established within the university. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You said that the preparation was undercover, which, of course, is not true. He asked me where the Academy of Sciences would find out about this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There have already been two professional forums at the Academy of Sciences. It's not our problem if you couldn't take part or get to know what's going on here. An exchange of views has already been held in the Committee of the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as well as in the Scientific Committee of the Department of Philosophy and History. But you have not missed anything, Congresswoman, because, of course, you will be able to go to such forums in the coming months. On 27 September, you will be warmly welcomed by the Minister of the National Pedagogical Faculty, where such a briefing will be held. On 29 September, two days later, at a digital education conference and exhibition, the National Basic School Plan will also be one of the points, and on 7 November, you may be able to note this more easily, at the National Conference of Experts on Public Education, there is also an opportunity and opportunity to learn about the content of this at the former Red-letter festival. We strive to have the broadest consensus, the most transparent way to keep open the establishment of a new National Basic Lesson Plan for everyone. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-108	Secretary of State, thank you very much. I respectfully ask Congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-09-18-109	Of course, I can't accept it. Fairy tale foam, Mr. Secretary, what you're talking about. That they're making a new National Basics plan? They have to do it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It is required by law every five years.]] This means that the 2012 National Fidesz Basic Study failed. They've failed the children, and they've crippled the teachers into this centralization. Here are the wretched and very depressing PISA results, 4,000 active teachers have left because of you, who have been overwhelmed by the overload and centralization. The number of functional illiterates is increasing rapidly. I don't even know what the biggest problem is. But now there's an even bigger problem, because you're gonna keep centralizing, keep centralizing. In the new National Basic Training Plan, mandatory methodological guidance was published for teaching. Secretary of State, do you know when was the last time there was mandatory methodological guidance in the National Basics Plan in Hungary? 1962. Now, this is where you consciously return the country instead of taking it to the future. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary, is the subject. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, It is well known that with a wage increase programme launched under certain career models, the government has only repaid an old debt, since benefits in this sphere have not increased in 10 years, and the real value of salaries has therefore been brutally reduced. The wages of civil servants and government officials cannot wait any longer. You can't wait any longer with that. In most sectors of the private sector, wages are multiples of salaries in the public sector. Dear Minister, Now, with this interpellation, I would like to ask you about a problem in an area of the public sector that I never hear of, and that is the urgent need for wage-setting in relation to the civil servants of the Parliament. By leaving the stipend unchanged, the salary of the party-independent civil servants working here, helping us daily, has not increased in the last 10 years. Although some people can take a few thousand forints more home on a monthly basis, this is not a real help given the decade-long lag, and the employees rightly feel that they are the real losers because they have been left out of all the waves of wage planning in the public sector. In view of the high level of professional work that they do to all Members of Parliament on a daily basis, often because of plenary or committee meetings, and often on weekends, they are the workers of the House who really deserve to pay them a decent wage. If the state does not appreciate those who, regardless of party sympathy, help everyone equally in the citadel of legislation, how can they expect precise, impeccable and often 12-14 hours of daily work without providing any perspective? It seems to me that with this small, but more professionalism, and also the invisibly helping community of workers, the government has completely forgotten. On the basis of the above, I would therefore like to ask the honourable Minister whether he intends to start the salary arrangement of the civil servants of the Parliamentary Office. My written question on this subject was answered by the honourable Minister that there is currently no motion before the House to settle this problem. I would also like to inform you that we have tabled an initiative in this regard, so it is now up to your support. Can the members of the National Assembly count on a meaningful wage arrangement? I await your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask Mr János Lázár respectfully for the answer.
u2017-09-18-113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Mr President, First of all, in order for any wage increase to be made in the public sector, whether now or in the seven years left behind, the condition is that the performance of the Hungarian economy will increase significantly. Without the performance of the Hungarian corporate sector, the competing economic operators, it is not possible to settle or consolidate or increase the wages of about 1 million employees in public employment. So there is a wage increase in the public sector if the economy, the taxpayers, produce it and do it. My second point is that first we have to raise wages where the problem is greatest, so in 2010 we increased the number of police officers, first we increased by 4,000, now we have increased the number of police officers involved in border protection by another 4,000, and to a significant extent we managed to increase the pay of police officers with the help of the police career. I believe that, together with a strict criminal policy, this has contributed greatly to the fact that the number of crimes committed in Hungary has fallen to half the size of the cities and settlements by increasing police presence. I would also like to say that health and education have been in a similar situation, where wage policy measures have been urgent. The first step in 2013 and the second step in 2016 was followed by the establishment of the Public Officials' Faculty. However, there were conditions for this, which you referred to. The number one condition was to create a new territorial administration system with 197 district offices and about 36 thousand workers. Of the 36,000 employees, we have 17,000 colleagues in the district offices, so not in the county centers. It was the government's decision that, depending on our economic options, the wages of public servants directly related to customers should first be settled. Policemen, doctors, educators, and then civil servants, state officials who are in direct contact with the electorate and deal with 24 million cases each year. We got past this in the summer of 2016, it's a more than 50 percent wage increase. [[17.00]] Today, the average salary of state officials is HUF 329 thousand in gross terms, which is more than the national average, which is HUF 300 or a few thousand. As a second step, the number of 17,000 increased to 36,000, as we also included participants in the county administration into this system. There is now a debate with the representatives of local authorities on how we can jointly settle the wages of 33 000 officials serving in the local authorities. However, the government has considered several indications of the Parliament. The government does not deny that legislation, as an independent branch of power, will create its own career for lawmakers. So if there is some consensus in the Parliament on this in the work of the Parliament, then I think it is worth taking away from the general civil servants' career - in quotes - the employment of those working in Parliament, as has been the case in many other cases with regard to the autonomy of legislation. After all, in recent times, the individual legal status of the Parliament has been significantly strengthened, whether in connection with the renovation of Kossuth tér as a separate property or in terms of other symbolic and practical things. Therefore, the government is prepared to consider, negotiate and even support a proposal that establishes or proposes an own career opportunity for civil servants serving in Parliament. I believe that this should be discussed by the parliamentary parties. Moreover, I think that government officials who have not received any wage increases at the moment should wait for the performance of the economy to make this possible. Thank you very much. Therefore, a government, central government wage increase - I say this to my secretary of state colleagues - will not happen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-114	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-115	The state of the Hungarian economy has been mentioned, Minister. Dear Minister, Let's say that, in the absence of any interest, the extension of the train on the Highway will now be missed and about HUF 10 000 billion will be spent. Let's use it to raise the civil servants' wages. [[Noise, interruptions from opposition parties: 10,000 billion?]] That means... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You called it in. You announced that we were talking about HUF 10 billion. If we were to transfer this money now to the wages of civil servants, from now on not only the employees of the House, but all Hungarian civil servants could receive 20 percent more wages. Dear Minister, There has been such a proposal before this House, you voted against it. We have tabled exactly the same proposal, clearly and mutatis mutandis updated. So I will be able to accept the Minister's reply if I see that the proposal that we have tabled will be supported by the government, by all the pro-government representatives. In the meantime, however, allow me to abstain a little on this issue. Thank you, so I don't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept Minister's reply, so I respectfully ask the Parliament whether she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: "The goal is noble. Then why is the minister nervous? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-117	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Fortunately, there are many foundations in Hungary that were founded to support intensive care for premature babies. It's a noble goal. At the annual level, a few million HUF support can also mean a great deal in this area. However, there is a small foundation that has spent 20 million forints for this purpose in five years, but then, when your wife got involved, they dared to dream big and applied for 1.2 billion EU funds to complement their activities with the operation of a mentor network. It's a noble goal. However, in December I received a signal, and the person knew from a certain source that the application would be won by your wife's foundation, and that the critics would have a thick pencil. And that's what really happened. I asked for the feasibility study, and I found quite dark things, one of the darkest things I've ever had to talk about here in Parliament. They planned to spend 50 million forints on legal expertise; for office rents, mentors' rents, 900 thousand forints three times a month, a total of 80 million forints, a total of 50 million forints for the methodological study. And they said that they're planning a thousand hours of labor, that's 50,000 forints per hour, that's ten times as much as a professor's fee. And we can get back to the line. At the same time, scandalously underpaid mentors were designed, and mentors were designed for 50,000 forints per month. Other foundations also won, two foundations won, they won half as much money, but there were no such spendings there, and when we talked about the basis on which these costs were planned, it turned out that there were no preliminary calls for proposals. A lot of questions are projected or raised by this project, but instead of answering the answers, they ordered a nasty mood attack on me. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] When I decided to draw attention to your sins, [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] "I must draw attention, I knew, I knew that today, who draws attention to abuses of power, is not playing with torture - it was before a few ten years - it is playing with debauchery. I'm prepared for this. I'm prepared to make it hurt. I wasn't prepared to be such a despicable thing, because you were there, your Secretary of State was at the forum where I told you that I was involved myself, I lost a small child two years ago, and you lost our family in a very mean way, instead of telling me how you thought to spend these money, you didn't give me an answer to one particular thing, but you ordered a despicable demeanor, a nasty mood in Hungarian royal television. Minister, is there an investigation into the over-prices I have raised? Who's doing these tests? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And is there an answer to what they were going to spend these money on? Thank you.
u2017-09-18-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-18-119	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. I am not in an easy position, because politeness, decency, or behaviour that we maintain in the government exclude the possibility of saying what I think. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, first of all, I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that he must address the question first of all to the beneficiary, the foundation concerned, who, as far as I know, invited you three times. When you asked for and received public information, you were invited; when you started a campaign in the press - and here I note only in parentheses that it would be interesting to consider who is mean here - you started a campaign against a civil society organisation; and when you held your press conferences, you were invited. In particular, I suggest that this civil society organisation and the affected parents, all of whom have lost their children almost without exception after premature birth, or that the child bears all the consequences of this and the family accepts the invitation of these people. I'm asking you, Congressman, to speak to them before you accuse them of anything. I don't think it's right for you to use a parliamentary interpellation or the work of your parliamentary representatives for a campaign against civilians when these civilians... [[Intercoms from Jobbik.]] - I have listened to the congressman, and I ask you to do this, nothing more - when these civilians, parents, who gave birth to premature children and the good Lord, have used 21 million forints of HUF 1 billion to date. So you said the verdict before you spent one penny just because my wife played a role in the board of directors of the foundation. Nothing else. If my wife's name hadn't been in the board of trustees of the foundation, you wouldn't have asked a question about this matter, Congressman. Then the question arises, who has made politics out of it, who makes a personal attack out of it, and what is important. On the other hand, the Ministry can show you everything, look at all the data, look at the work of the applied applicants, how this program was designed. What I can tell you is that all I understand from the press is that there are some parents who want their children to receive high-quality clinical care, not only, but also support themselves in bearing all the consequences. For example, some people have to drive from 50 to 100 kilometers every day because they don't have a place to sleep at the clinic when the premature child is still in there and wants to be there with their child; what the money is going to do, I'm only going to give it to you as an additive. The Ministry can answer you, and the foundation can answer you. Of course, I would like to order any kind of inspection, and make no mistake, my wife does not insist on any form of participation. If it makes you happy, Congressman, then, of course, he will not participate in the work of the Foundation's board of trustees, so that your needs can be met. We don't insist on that kind of thing at all. [[17.10]] And I think that if someone wants to help in a good case, they should be supported in any way. Out of 1 billion 200 million, 21 million forints were spent, and it is under control, and I will inform you and the public as well. And I would ask you to speak to the families, the couples who have invited you several times to inform you of the background of this proposal. And I ask that a case, a case that means that 10 percent of the children born every year in Hungary are prematurely born, do not make me the subject of political debates and personal political attacks. That's what I'm asking of you, Congressman. And by no means compare premature babies to milk bags. This, I think, is unworthy of the LMP, unworthy of you and unworthy of the voters who support you. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-120	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Member if he will accept the Minister's reply. Here you go. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-121	Of course, I cannot accept the answer. An unworthy reply has been received, continuing the depraved mood, instead of explaining any of the items. In this project, however, how could you have had the opportunity long ago to ask why someone thought that out of HUF 1.2 billion, HUF 50 million should be spent on legal counseling, or why someone thought that a study should be written for HUF 50 thousand per hour, a total of HUF 50 million, on how to help our most deprived and vulnerable fellow citizens and their parents. You would've had the chance, but you didn't, but in a mean way, I'll say it again, you're in the mood. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] He knows I went to the foundation. And you know I warned you, I have to tell you now, because I'm helping these kids and their families a lot more. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] It's like I'm looking at it in hindsight, just like I did with Flórian Farkas, but I couldn't see how those money was stolen. Thank you. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: Pathetic! Shame! Shame on you.]]
u2017-09-18-122	Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept Minister's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 111 votes in favour, 11 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: ? It's an address. Congressman László Kiss has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, About the beginning of the school, almost every medium was loud because desperate directors even look for teachers in the Vatican; that mathematics, physics, chemistry, informatics and physical education teachers must be groped with lassos, and if they succeed, especially in small settlement schools, then everyone can feel lucky. Now, based on recent statistical data, there is a 3-4 percent shortage of teachers, but in fact, the persistent shortage of teachers is estimated to be greater. I think that there is a clear reason for this, and the reason why your education policy has failed, the so-called teacher career model has failed. Appreciation of educators only works on propaganda level. The level of wage increases was enough to rise from the last to the last of the OECD countries. Meanwhile, the workload of teachers continues to increase, and the introduction of the rating system and the increase in the number of hours also increased the problem. Technically, the rating system itself has become a chimp of the struggle with statistical data and bureaucracy, which is a nightmare for all teachers, since it has been so bureaucratized and illogical. But you should know that being a teacher is not just a job among many, it is much more than a profession that one chooses for life, because the job, the profession that teaches future generations, is obviously a job with an incredible sacrifice that requires an entire person. Today, however, the reality is that teachers working for low wages are on a short leash, unfortunately, in many cases they do their job without respect, with a high number of hours and intimidation. The failed career model does not stimulate educators, wages are low, and working conditions are bad, it is enough to think that teachers' rooms themselves are scarce and air conditioning is virtually absent in most educational institutions. It is a frightening picture that the average age of teachers is rising rapidly: 37 percent of them are over 50 years of age, even as a result of forced retirement; 6 percent of them are under 30 years of age. I am therefore asking Mr Secretary of State what they are planning to do to eliminate the shortage of teachers. Are you planning to give the teachers a real career? Are there plans to reduce administrative burdens and improve working conditions? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-09-18-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the interpellation question from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, What you're saying to the government is that there aren't enough teachers, and you forget to mention that during your own administration, 15,000 teachers have been dismissed from the teaching field. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Shame!]] And they sent them to insurance agents and real estate agents, and who knows how much else. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] The 15,000 teachers you're missing from school. To make the teacher's career more attractive - in quotes - so, to be sure, even a month's wage was taken from the teachers, so that anyone who had a sense of professionalism to stay there and you didn't let him go wouldn't be in that $15,000. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Why was it more than now?]] who has been laid off, even for those who have been paid less wages, in case they think about a career modification because of a lower wage, they go to the MSZP Parliamentary Representative [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down instead.]] Or they'll go to anything else. And then, honourable Member, after you have reduced it, you have reduced the number of places where there is education, after you have taken a month's wages and dismissed 15,000 teachers, and you are singing odes here about the problem of whether there are enough teachers or not. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We don't say that!]] Honourable Member, the solution to this problem, I think, is possible only if there is a central maintenance of schools within a system of public organisations, because the shortage of a specialist teacher is actually only created by the introduction of state reservations, this is the need for exactly how many specialised teachers are needed. That is why it was important that this problem was brought to light. We can say that, regionally, in some parts of the country, there is a 1-2 percent shortage of teachers, which must be filled in Hungary. To make the teaching field more attractive, it is obvious that the teacher's wages are inevitable... - not the wage cuts you have made, but the wage increases, 50 percent wage increases, each year the funding of which was accepted in the budget by the National Assembly, and every year you voted against the teachers' wage increases. If you had steered in 2013, teachers would have been worse than HUF 32 billion, teachers would have been worse than 120 billion in 2014, teachers would have been worse than 38 billion in 2015 and 34 billion in 16 and 45 billion forints this year and 41 billion forints next year would have been worse for teachers. In addition, it is important that those who have provided extra, additional performance, who spend even more time, effort and self-educating students, or have thought more carefully about what they should be teaching young people, and who have passed various procedures, qualified themselves, are teachers II. They're in gear. With 30-35 thousand forints more, 50,000 teachers are now able to work in higher quality, with greater performance to provide the next generation with the most useful knowledge. As a result, the number of teacher students was finally able to start on the growth path after 2012, since while 6470 teachers were enrolled in the pedagogical program, now 10 167. And the number of candidates has also increased, as the previous number has increased from 10,000 to 13 thousand. So there are many more candidates to be selected, and instead of 6,500, we can hire more than 10,000 students to be teachers of the future. And it is also important that, with Klebelsberg scholarship, we try to stimulate precisely the skills and areas of absence. 1517 students have a valid contract; HUF 1.6 billion will be spent on this, and you have spent zero forints on this. From this we strive to help as many as possible in geography, information technology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics, do so as much as possible, because this will be the most needed in future schools. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2017-09-18-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-127	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I have to say, those teachers who are starting their careers were 15 years old when you started steering. So when you always say the blah of the last 8 years, it is good to note that this is no longer valid for our future start-up colleagues. And if this is about the 15,000 teachers missing from the jobs you think we've fired, then this is about an 8-year-old problem that you haven't been able to solve. Your answer, I must say, was deplorable. But if you'd be so kind as to joke about my own teacher's calling, allow me to say that there is no climate in the classrooms or in the teachers' rooms at the school from which I started to this day. My own school table is no bigger than this parliamentary table, just a little more textbooks and a little more diaries on it at times. If you can call this a normal job situation [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] then we have very different concepts. I can't accept your answer.
u2017-09-18-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Honourable Parliament, Member, did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How many evictions can take place before winter? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Justice, László Trócsányi, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister, then Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the early spring, I asked a question on this issue twice, once in writing, once in a word. Then the Secretary of State appointed by Minister Balog replied. I did not get a satisfactory answer, so I am going to ask you again as an interpellation. It happens to be about the case of thousands of families affected by eviction. I do this because we see and find that there are many Hungarian families who, apart from their own faults, are unfortunately in a position where they cannot pay their loans, and the banks have started to auction their family properties. I think that eviction or eviction moratorium itself gives these families a very important opportunity to solve this problem, whether by banks or by other means. I received two answers from the Secretary of State, both in writing and orally, the last time I dealt with this issue. One of the answers was that you didn't leave anyone on the side of the road, and that you were on the side of the families, and the other answer is classic, which you were able to say to my colleague Kiss earlier, and you happen to ignore that they have been governing for almost eight years, for two cycles, and they still have a way of pointing back at the previous socialist governments. And the truth is, and I'm not saying this, but the bailiffs of the court, the detailed statistics that say that in 2016, 3,500 families lost their property, received the enforcement order, and this number does not seem to be decreasing this year either, since only 800 family homes were evicted in the first quarter of 2017. And how this is so, by the way, this is confirmed by your super central bank president György Matolcsy, because by the end of 2016, the banks made 72 thousand debtors on implementation, and they managed to reach some kind of agreement with only 4 thousand of them. Well, the question arises whether the families deserve such protection from you. By the way, we see how they help families, because they have been proven several times, but we also see how they help banks, because these 3500 properties are already at the banks, and we also see, of course, how they reduce the bank tax. Therefore, I would like to ask you once again: what do you intend to do about the tens of thousands of families involved, and how many implementations can be carried out before winter this year? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you.
u2017-09-18-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already mentioned, will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Let's hear it!]] Your speech is a good opportunity to clarify once again who has driven tens of thousands of families into the trap of foreign exchange credit. The answer was given by László Botka's consultant Ferenc Büttl himself a few days ago when he wrote about the necessity of recognising responsibility. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The MSZP-SZDSZ government has not done everything in its power to stop the debt process, nor to protect households in debt. If we add that you in the opposition did not vote for the introduction of the exchange barrier, the end-payment, the forinting, and even the private failure institution, then it is clear that the MSZP was never interested in the fate of the families that it destroyed. I will only record this as an introduction because here, in the speeches before the agenda, there was also a request for a brief overview of what the government has done since 2010 in the interests of the indebted families. I would like to start by saying that in 2010 we immediately blocked the implementations, since on 11 August 2010 Parliament accepted that the implementation of all decisions on the evacuation of all apartments would be postponed and that these had to be applied in the ongoing procedures. This was followed by the legislative acts, which, in practice, both at the Kúria, at the Court of Luxembourg, at the Constitutional Court, set the legislative framework, allowed the end-payment at a reduced rate, allowed the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, cleared the banks of the unfair income derived from the exchange rate gap, the unilateral amendment of the contract, and, in practice, maintained the implementation moratorium throughout. Perhaps Mr President did not split the data, as implementation does not always mean real estate inhabited by families, because during a moratorium it could not have been carried out during these earlier periods, so that, in itself, the implementation of a residential property does not mean that that family lived there, but that a claim could be covered, because the moratorium did not apply to it. This spring, Parliament has accepted that under 100 percent of the value of these properties cannot be sold, so that the debtors are not harmed, and that we cannot measure the effects of this in statistics, hopefully by the end of the year we will have data proving that this kind of debt protection has also limited the loss of the homes of families. To sum up the answer to the question, I believe that the missteps that allowed foreign exchange credit to increase, that András Simor, paid by HUF 8 million per month, like other countries, did not prevent foreign exchange loans, led to a situation that we can assess as this Parliament, this government, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it has fully protected the interests of debtors within the framework of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. You chronologically led me through what happened, and I'm chronologically speaking. First of all, it was Zsigmond Járai who introduced the currency loan, he was your central bank president. [[17 .30]] Secondly, on ATV, Viktor Orbán said that when the government was taken over, basically everything was fine with the economic situation, and then, a month later, Lajos Kósa was able to announce that you had a bankruptcy, where the exchange rate of the forint had gone. Thirdly, they allowed those who were wealthy and wealthy to escape from this loan cheaply, at HUF 180 and at HUF 250, while leaving thousands of families to escape at market prices, thus obviously they could not escape from it. In that way, you had only one solution, the family bankruptcy system in 2015, which also failed, because no one outside a few hundred families could use it, because the implementation of the law is so difficult. So I can't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2017-09-18-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask therefore whether the Honourable Parliament will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 28 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, This concludes the negotiation of interpellations. We are now taking a two-minute technical break in order to complete the instant Question Time without delay. [[It's a short break.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, It's 5:33. We will continue our work with immediate questions. Congressman László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Is this democracy for you? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister's presence and personal response to the reply.
u2017-09-18-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-09-18-136	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the Honourable Parliament that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[To Dr. László Szakács, who is preparing for the speech:]] Congressman knows that he will be next to the next immediate question. So, Honourable Parliament, MEP László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Is it legal? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask if you accept the person who is responding. [[Dr. László Cook says yes.]] Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In Pécs, he was replaced with a coup by the elected Fidesz Parliamentary Representative of Pécs - in fact that is the case - the mayor was placed under guardianship. There was a very difficult-to-understand committee called the City Party Committee to replace the mayor. On August 31, we read in the Pécs Newspaper that this committee prepares decisions and makes decisions on strategic issues and on the issues of the city; so it also acts as a decision-making body instead of the mayor. The mayor has so much to do with having a seat on this city party committee. Other than that, we see that the council system has come to Pécs, of course, we have started to think about why this could be such a turn of events. We've seen the statements. At first, 5 billion deficits were recognised in the city of Pécs, this was done by Péter Csizi, and then 7.5 billion deficits were recognised by the mayor, with which they could not do anything. Of course, here's the question: where is all this money that this party committee is going to earn? Not one, but two, because my fellow Member Peter Hoppál is leading one, and that will reveal the past. I'm sure that's what the Pécs needed. But I think they miss the 7.5 billion forints that disappeared from the budget of Pécs. Where did this money go? After all, in January 2015, Mayor Zsolt Páva proudly said that the city of Pécs has a debt of HUF 2 million, since it was consolidated by the state. That is why I would like to ask you when and how much money the state has taken, how much credit it has taken from Pécs, and whether, according to the Secretary of State, the Fidesz Party Committee in place of the mayor is legal in Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-139	[[His mic's not working. Mr. President, card? Statement from the benches of the MSZP: Secretary of State without a card! President: Microphone.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a very interesting question, as Mr President has put it. [[Dr. István Józsa: No! Tragic!]] Where this 7.5 billion HUF disappeared to. This is an interesting question for you and the MSZP fraction, since this HUF 7.5 billion is very simple to derive. From the management of public utility and public service companies in Pécs, the socialist city management [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] and from the loans of this group of companies. [[How many years has Fidesz been here?]] The city of Pécs took over HUF 46 billion in the loan consolidation in which the Hungarian government took over the loan from the municipalities. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Wow!]] This is the HUF 46 billion loan portfolio [[Zoltán Pride: How much was the bond?]] , inherited by the Municipality of Pécs from the municipality before 2010. However, in the management of the city, the deficit was not only hidden in the operation of the city, but you obviously know the history of public transport in Pécs, the sale of bus transport, the sale of buses and buses, and you know very well what a shortage of bus transport in Pécs has created for the city. It is this deficit that appeared in favour of public transport in Pécs, which appeared in Pécs companies, which, of course, was not in the debt consolidation of the municipalities, since the State only took over the loans from the municipalities. The extremely difficult task of the city of Pécs is that after his buses were sold from outside the city, public transport was made impossible. [[Dr. László Kács: Where did you buy a new one? It wasn't cheap!]] This gave the city a special task of saving public transport, establishing bus transport and managing the loans that the companies in Pécs brought with them [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The mayor is incompetent!]] from the pre-2010 period. Mayor of the city of Pécs, Mayor Páva, who, after being elected mayor of the city, continues to use and operate all the mayor's mandates and opportunities. [[Zoltán Haughty: What they leave behind, yes!]] Of course, in Pécs the decrees of Pécs are made in accordance with the municipal law and the municipal decisions are formulated. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We really agree on one thing: Zsolt Páva is unfit. We think we should replace it, but we would do it democratically, not with a party committee like you. He's always delirious. He doesn't know one thing: since 2009, Mayor Zsolt Páva. Zsolt Páva has been leading this town for eight years, which recently was a city of 145 thousand and wanted to shine in the role of the center of the region. [[17.40]] Instead, we now see that he has lost 12 to 15 percent of his population. We see you lost 22 percent of your students, 13 thousand fewer students in Pécs. We see that it precedes Győr, Miskolc, Kecskemét; anyone overtakes Pécs in competitiveness. And you're coming with these foamabas that you've just told me what happened before 2009? ! They've been buying buses ever since. It wasn't cheap either. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then, of course, it must be addressed in the context of another response. But look, take it seriously, the existence of a large city in Hungary is not at stake!
u2017-09-18-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-09-18-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So, as I said, the municipality of Pécs operates according to the law and according to the rules of the municipal law, the decisions are taken accordingly. [[Dr. László Kács: We will keep an eye on him! A lot.]] Pécs can engage in many of those developments within the framework of the Modern Cities programme [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] which brings the competitiveness of the city, the competitiveness of the entire neighbourhoods of South Hungary and Pécs, and which ensures that people living in and around the city can join the more developed part of the country, which, by the way, you have forgotten all this time. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Dr. László Kács: They treat Pécs as a Bag settlement! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The municipality of Pécs had to buy new buses because your friends sold these buses. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If everything is so good, why the committee? Dr. László Kács: Why is there a shortage?]] A tax debt has been accumulated which has made it impossible for bus transport to exist; it has endangered the public transport of a city with county rights. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] a city of such potential as Pécs should be completely eliminated. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. László Kács: It will be difficult... difficult profession... applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When do you switch from the international capital side to the Hungarian employees' side? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-09-18-145	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will wait for the Prime Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why hasn't the Government done anything in recent months to prevent the adoption of the Ukrainian educational law? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member, notary, whether he accepts the person of the responding. [[István Szávay nods.]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin takes the notary's seat.]]
u2017-09-18-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The crisis is now going on for almost two weeks, and for two weeks now we know specifically about the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament at second reading on the restriction of minority languages, thus the elimination of Hungarian educational institutions. It has been a week and a half, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has still not spoken in substance in this matter, although he has touched on this issue in today's Parliament's speech, but he merely asked what these children, i.e. Hungarian children in Transcarpathia, have done and what their parents have done to make such a decision by the Ukrainian Parliament. We don't think that's the question we should have asked. We all know that these children and these parents have done nothing wrong. We would rather ask the question, Minister, what the government has done in recent months in order to prevent this law from being born. We do not know this; and more specifically: we know - they have done nothing. The law is not new. In October 2016, the general debate of this law began in the Ukrainian Parliament, so at least since then this matter has been in the air for almost a year. In July this year, the Ukrainian Parliament almost voted on it once, only because of the specific house rules in Ukraine they could not do so. So at the latest, Hungarian diplomacy and the Hungarian government should have woken up because the Ukrainians would like to make such a law. We are not aware that, in recent months, there has been any substantial pressure, background discussion, negotiation, anything that has happened to Ukraine. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was very firm on this issue after the problem had already begun. Of course, you shouldn't just yell when the house is on fire, but maybe you should have stopped it from burning. At the same time, you have supported Ukraine's various European aspirations unconditionally until the last few days. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We do not know, I ask, whether these negotiations have raised the issue of education law, even on one occasion. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-148	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-18-149	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, this important issue, as far as I know, is not only in this hour, but also in another form among the Parliament's agendas, and will be present in the next period, until Ukraine departs from its intention to restrict the use of Hungarian language in the territory of Transcarpathia. The Hungarian Government's position in principle is that every Hungarian person has the right to be protected by the Hungarian State. And the Hungarian State has a fundamental duty to protect all people, all Hungarian people. For this reason, during the last six months, in the midst of negotiations with the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government, we have constantly urged that this proposal be rejected. Of course, it is also part of the reality that, in one way or another, the Hungarian state must work not only to ensure legal protection for all Hungarians, but also to establish a fair relationship with the successor states for the sake of Hungarians there. That is why we have tried to settle this issue, not in a loud voice, but in negotiations. However, we are now in a different period, given that the bill is about to be signed, but it was born and accepted by the Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, we will act most strongly at all international forums - the Council of Europe, the OSCE and all other international forums - not alone, as we are protesting against this law together with the Romanians, the Greeks and the Bulgarians, in order to guarantee legal protection and the right to use languages for all Hungarians. I would also like to tell you that we are not talking in the air, because in these matters, actions are worth more than loud words. In view of the fact that we have announced and implemented in the past few days to veto Romania's membership of the OECD, we have given an eloquent example that the Hungarian government can and can act decisively to protect the interests of Hungarians. For many years there has not been such a decisive foreign policy move as the Hungarian government has done in terms of vetoing Romanian or Croatian OECD membership. Therefore, those states that do not respect Hungarians, do not respect the fundamental rights of Hungarians, can expect Hungary to act decisively against them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the Hungarians there for the protection of their interests. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-150	Thank you very much, Minister. István Szávay, a notary, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's not bring Croatia here, Minister. In Croatia, you protect not Hungarians in Croatia, but an oligarch involved in a suspicion of corruption. But what you said about Romania is true, we approved of that. We also agree, Minister, of course, but we have also said this on many occasions that good relations with neighbouring countries, partnership, are, of course, important, and we also regard it as an important value. We do not agree, Mr Secretary, and we have talked about this many times between these walls, that we believe that the interests of the Hungarian communities must be paramount, and we see that your governance, but, by the way, this was particularly typical for socialist governments, has always made concessions on these issues; these matters, European cooperation, good neighbourly relations have always been put before the interests of the Hungarian communities. We consistently and continue to maintain our position that we must set clear and clear conditions for the accession of Serbia and Ukraine to the European Union for the benefit of the Hungarian community. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your position, as the Prime Minister has said, is that we are not setting conditions in advance, but then we are trying to pursue an interest, and this policy is not working, which is what we see now. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-152	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-18-153	Thank you very much. I believe that there is no difference in principle between Fidesz or your position, or between the government and your position. How we enforce our rights is another question. I think that there are good examples and there are desperate examples. In my view, Serbia is a good example of fair and constructive cooperation, not only in terms of symbolic things, as President Áder has done, but also in other matters, such as economic cooperation and the success of Hungarians in Vojvodina, I believe that in Serbia there is a serious goal and ambition respected by the government. With regard to Transcarpathia, Hungary made a serious gesture when it first and loudest requested the visa waiver from Ukraine. That's what happened, and that's what happened. The policy of Ukraine against the Hungarians was not in Hungary. And I would like to add something else to the Member's attention, which you know more precisely than I do: the Hungarian policy at all times must be expressed in a manner agreed with the leaders of the Hungarian minority there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We agree every step of our way with the leaders of the Hungarians there for the sake of Hungarians. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2017-09-18-154	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Where is the Orbán plan? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congresswoman, whether you accept the person who is responding, or whether you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Congresswoman Márta Demeter!
u2017-09-18-155	Prime Minister, answer the question in person. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-09-18-156	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform you, Congresswoman, and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is right? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister to be present in Parliament.
u2017-09-18-157	Thank you very much. I wish it affected the Minister, but I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-158	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who will teach our children? The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to reply to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] As a notary of the Parliament, Mr János Lázár also informs me that he accepts Minister as a reply. Congressman István Ikotity, notary, please.
u2017-09-18-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, After the start of the school in September, you could see advertisements on a number of sites on the Internet where teachers were hunted - literally hunting - and they looked for candidates for teaching jobs. We have also looked into these ads, and the situation is truly disappointing. Despite wage increases, salaries are not tempting, working conditions are poor, working hours are far more than 40 hours a week. Despite the career model, depending on the degree of a career teacher, 121 or, if you have a university degree, you will receive a net amount of 135 thousand forints, of which you cannot earn a living. During the summer break of school, the OECD's comparative study was published, according to which the Hungarian situation is devastating at international level, as the Hungarian teachers' wages on purchasing power are half the same as the average of the other countries. We know from the Teachers' Union that in the previous academic year, more than 5,000 teachers lost their employment, of which 1,400 are retired, and nearly 4,000 people, who, on the other hand, left the field as active age, went to work in other areas. This loss of 5400 people is in no way offset by the fact that only 800 new teachers have entered the public education system. Dear Minister, The lack of a teacher has already taken a tangible measure, even though the real problem is just coming. In fact, it can be seen that in a decade or two nearly half of the teachers will retire, and so many teachers simply don't graduate every year to replace up to half of the tens of thousands of jobs left empty. What about education, Minister? Who's gonna teach the students? How do you want to attract young people to the field with a net net wage of 120-130 thousand HUF? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Does the government have a plan to solve this problem? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-09-18-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-18-161	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, We agree with you on the question that the quality of Hungarian schools is strongly influenced by the level of preparation, ability and commitment of teachers in these schools. My personal experience is that the strongest part of the Hungarian education system is the social class and the period when it was in the best form for the education, work and commitment of the pedagogical society. I'm not saying it's true today, it's related to a lot of things. In part, the pedagogical track has been a losing career for many years, for example between 2002 and 2010. I wouldn't forget that 15,000 teachers' jobs have been closed and 180 schools have been closed. This was not a good message for those who wanted to be on a teaching career. We started the government by assessing the situation. After 2011, we will continue to raise wages in education. It was this year, September this year, when the last step on this issue was taken. We can talk about a 50 percent average wage increase for a teacher. These are spectacular differences: from the previous 120-130 thousand forints to 200-250 thousand forints, teachers' wages also increased in net terms. Clearly, it doesn't matter what school or preparation one teaches. I find in my own constituency that there was a substantial wage increase for teachers. The phenomenon you described is not the same in all areas of the country, as there are small settlements where the number of children is constantly decreasing and the number of children to be educated is constantly decreasing. The problem is not the total number of teachers, but the real problem is the territorial differences. There are settlements in the country where we can count on falling numbers of children, and there are agglomeration cities in Budapest, for example, where the number of children continues to increase explosively because of moving out. I think it is difficult to bridge this with a measure. What we have done: we have launched a scholarship program for which we have spent billions of forints, which means 125 and 375 thousand forints of scholarship every six months. The quality of teacher training, its quantitative composition and the bringing together of children to be born are the tasks of the government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But we are also talking about not only a quantitative but also a serious quality issue. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-162	Thank you very much, Minister. István Ikotity has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, it seems that these quantitative problems will be significant here. I was talking about 5400 teachers who left the field in the previous school year, while you mentioned 15,000 in an eight-year period. How much do teachers earn and how much does that mean in real terms? There are a lot of debates about this. Allow me to show you in a completely personal example, not in the example of an unknown person, in my own example, how much you earn and how good this wage is. Now, as I mentioned, with a university degree, you'll get 135,000 net if someone starts the field now. I'm holding in my hand a 2002 Autumn bank statement on which my first salary arrived as a career teacher. 88 146 forints came into my account. And if you look at this in real terms, and you look at the fact that in 15 years there was 77.5 percent inflation, that would be 156,500 forints in today's value, which is 15 percent more than I am now, if I were to take the field as a career educator... - that's how much less I would get, 15 percent. That is why we see that this salary is lower than it was up to 15 years ago and that there is absolutely no way to boast, in this respect there has not been an increase in teachers' wages, unfortunately.
u2017-09-18-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-18-165	Thank you very much. Obviously, this is a big debate, because in the coming months, the government is trying to document and prove that it has done everything in its power to ensure that this first step in educators' wage arrangements can be achieved. In addition to increasing wages, if wages in the real economy increase by 10 percent annually, this will obviously also affect public sector wages, so we cannot say that this should be a closed process, that all teachers are satisfied and that we have completed the wage increase. It's not like that. I think that in local society, the teacher, the policeman, the soldier, the disaster man and the official should belong to the local middle class. It is painful that teachers and public servants have not belonged to the local middle class in the last 25 to 30 years. It is a sore wound, and we are working to heal it, but the condition is the same as I replied to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that the economy can produce it and that it should be able to carry out wage increases. I consider quality to be at least as important, Congressman. As long as the education of teachers in Hungary does not change substantially, neither is the quality of education [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It will change substantially. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-166	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: . When will the office of the cheating socialist representative be taken away? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding.
u2017-09-18-167	Yeah.
u2017-09-18-168	The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, please. [[18.00]]
u2017-09-18-169	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since the case of Gábor Simon, former Vice-President of the Hungarian Socialist Party, we know that the fallen left can even get into a corruption scandal without a government. [[What about your mother, old man? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about the Wolf?]] However, it is certainly noteworthy that eight years after their departure from power - thanks to the Hungarian people - they still have representatives in the spirit of renewal, who have domestic lawyers who are accused of billions of fraud and involvement in criminal organizations. [[Zoltán Pride: Simonka? At least ask someone who's not dirty, listen.]] According to suspicion, the lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány and László Botka, representative of the left of Szombathely, operated a criminal organization between 2013 and 2016 [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the Chamber's money?]] His company, Human Operator Zrt. continuously outsourced the awarded works to subcontractors led by the stromones, who did not pay taxes and contributions on student workers. This method seems to have damaged the Hungarian state by about HUF 3 billion. It seems that Czeglédy does not trust in cash and keeps it in gold in Austria, as a kilo of investment gold was seized in Austria during the investigation. Then the committee on legal and social relations in Szombathely launched a declaration of assets against the pre-preliminary socialist politician, who entered the body of representatives as a candidate for the left-wing cooperation. The Fidesz-MSZP fraction of the Szombathely local government repeatedly called on the fraudulent socialist politician to resign, but the socialist representative did not do so. I ask: what legal instruments are available to deprive such a Member of his mandate? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, This is all we can think of from Csaba Czeglédy, the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party-Democratic Coalition. Csaba Czeglédy's lack of humanity by withholding the payment of thousands of students' wages [[Zoltán Grimlock: The money's been blocked, okay? They've written you wrong!]] did not obtain their due payment in May and June. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where are you supposed to pay? The president's ringing the bell.]] Indeed, the NAV blocked it, but precisely because it cheated 3 billion forints...
u2017-09-18-172	Congressman!
u2017-09-18-173	... from the budget of a criminal organisation operated by him [[Zoltán Pride: But that's just suspicion. That's the charge. Sorry, the verdict. We get it.]] as Mr President mentioned in his speech. [[Dr. István Józsa: Fake accusation!]] Since then, the wages of the student workers have not been repaid. Neither Csaba Czeglédy nor your esteemed party associates have repaid this damage. I would like to remind you that the Fidesz municipal faction was the first to call for resignation Csaba Czeglédy, who has been in custody since June 2017. For the record, the mayor doesn't have the authority to do that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You mean the one who does drugs? Is that junkie still there?]] that Csaba Czeglédy, which represents the legal representation of MSZP-DK, should withdraw his mandate, because the Member should give back what would be a minimum requirement in the light of its history. The representative's mandate is CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Under law, the resignation of the Member could be lifted, so that this problem could be solved. Mr Czeglédy did not choose this, so he remains in this unfair state. It would also be available, if the final judgment was delivered, the loss of the mandate could be established due to inadequacy. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-175	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that Csaba Czeglédy had already been convicted legally in 2002. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the Chamber's money? You're full of shit.]] So we're talking about a repeat criminal, and in 2002, he was convicted of fraud in student associations. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There will be a relapse if convicted. Don't talk about what you don't know. Zoltán Grimlocks: in in 6th grade.]] Then, in 6, that's much better... All in all, I can say that if, unfortunately, we have to wait for Csaba Czeglédy's honour to return his mandate, then I do not see a very good chance of doing so. What I can really ask of my fellow left-wing Members here is that they finally release the hand of their criminal fellow Member, and do not try to protect him constantly, and that it should be answered whether the three billion forints he has cheated may not have made any money for various party funding, because this raises a lot of other questions. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Look around you.]] These should be clarified first. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the facts show that there are political ties in this case. [[An uproar from the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]] So this representative is connected to DK and MSZP on a number of strings, and he is also the legal representative of Altus Zrt., which is the family company of Ferenc Gyurcsány, so the relationship is direct. And we've heard the mumblings of the phalanx, basically standing up to this day with this criminally accused lawyer. [[Dr. István Józsa: The charge is false.]] And whether the charge is false or not, it's probably for the court to say it. But if the NAV has such serious evidence, in this case it would indeed be fortunate to give up the mandate, at least not to burden its political friends with the past of his personality. I could advise you to do that. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: When will Voldemort be discussed? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-178	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the MSZP, the President-in-Office's warning is justified. [[Proud Zoltán: Right! That's right!]] So I respectfully ask you to comply with Parliament's regulations. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] You'll take it, thank you very much. Congressman László Földi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-179	Dear Secretary of State, Agriculture, as it has done in the last hundreds of years, is still of decisive economic and social importance in Hungary. 57 percent of our country's area is under cultivation, where 5.4 million hectares of agricultural land and 2 million hectares of forest are cultivated. Of these, Hungarian agriculture is an important crop, which contributed to our food production last year with a record crop size.In addition to domestic use, it was exported from high quality Hungarian grain. Grain production in agriculture is important because experts believe that we have food production potential that is not being sufficiently exploited and that there is also a possibility of qualitative and quantitative progress in this area, as the Ministry of Agriculture summarized last year in the framework of the Food Economic Programme of Hungary 2016- 2050. Dear Secretary of State, The basic goals of our food economy are clear. Safe food supply, maintaining GMO-free, safeguarding our natural values, preserving biodiversity and protecting the environment and careful and sustainable management of natural resources. That is why I ask, Mr Secretary of State, how are these aspects of cereal production being achieved? Overall, how was the grain crop in our country this year? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] (The chair is occupied by István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.
u2017-09-18-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Say hello to my fellow Member. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, I would like to say the most beautiful sentence that an agricultural engineer can say: this year's grain crop is provided in sufficient quantities and quality. [[18.10]] The characteristic of this year is that after last year's record year, we were able to clean up a small decline, but at the same time a small increase compared to the average of the last five years, with an increase of about 0.7 percent. However, I would like to make a very important difference to you: up until now, it has been typical that the quality of the wheat fed in the country has been produced in higher quantities than the quality of the food. This year's year is the year when it has been embodied to a 50-50 percent ratio, and even in the western part of the country 70 percent is of food quality and only 30 percent of feed quality. The quantity produced is 5,2 tonnes/hectare of the average crop produced from 958 thousand hectares, which means that there is an abundance of exports - almost half of which - so we can also deliver outwards. The amount of grain, the quality of the crop, is indicated by our excellence in seed production. The way the country operates in this area is very important. There are very large competitions with various international breeds. At the same time, Hungarian wheat breeding is world-famous, and we are also very significantly included in export markets. Of course, one of the very important values of Hungarian agriculture is that we can always produce GMO-free seed guaranteed, and, of course, we also regulate with the Basic Law that only GMO-free seed can enter the Hungarian soil. This ensures that we can export exactly this. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Földi is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-183	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. Indeed, I am very rested with the fact that the country's bread is safe, the wheat is in the containers, and we will be able to bake the better quality bread from it. I also asked the question, Mr Secretary of State, because agriculture, as an economic area, is key in the region where I live. The field crop is part of it, but the gardening, the vineyard, is also also present in our region, along with livestock production. I have observed, in conversation with farmers - as Mr. Secretary of State was pleased to say - that this year's grain crop was slightly weaker than in 2016, but in our region too, the share of wheat in malt against fodder wheat has increased. I thank you for the answer, and thank you to the people, the peasants and entrepreneurs who have produced this country's bread again this year. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-09-18-185	My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your words of appreciation to those working in Hungarian agriculture. This must never be missed. Every time the bread is on the table, we must also think of those who produce it with sweat and effort for all of us. It is extremely important that the harvest is not over, since our autumn harvest plants are about to start, both corn and sunflowers. It has not been an easy year, since we have to survive droughts and droughts along with our plants that make this very difficult. At the same time, I must tell you that, as Hungarian agriculture contributed 0.6 percent to the 2 percent GDP growth last year, and in the last six years agriculture has pushed GDP growth four times, and I very much hope that our autumn harvest cereals, both maize and sunflower, will be able to produce a result that we will be able to further increase and serve the growth of Hungarian GDP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends, and Others." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking Mr President himself for an answer.
u2017-09-18-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since spring, Mr. Matolcsy has had a 22-point rap sheet. I'd like to wait for Mr. Matolcsy and tell him that the longer he comes, the longer it will be.
u2017-09-18-188	Thank you, Congressman, for your statement. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform Mr President that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Grumpy... I'd like you to tell me your position. I ask your fellow Member to make this possible for him. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Do you recognize the parlagfüt, Minister? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-09-18-189	I'll take it.
u2017-09-18-190	Congressman has indicated that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-09-18-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, About a month ago, I wrote to Minister Lazarus a written question, which he routinely passed to the Minister of Agriculture, despite the fact that the control tasks relating to the MVH, as far as I know, fall under his ministry, according to the Statute. But it didn't bother me, it was the confusion that I was given the answer to the written question, in which I submitted areas with a specific MEPAL identification number, that I would ask for an immediate examination, because there are serious problems. In one word, I did not write that these are state areas, and I received a reply from the Minister of Agriculture that there are no state areas on the border of Gáborján. That is not what I was interested in, but that the private areas owned by the same group of actors who received thousands of hectares of public pasture are in an amazing state. Now I've repeated the written question, they'll have time to look into it specifically, but I did do another examination, and I looked at one specifically at the border of Gáborján. I have brought the picture, and I will send it to the secretary of state, Minister, to see how the entire weed farm, which exists in Hungary, goes to the cultural table on the basis of the action of an irresponsible farmer. The biggest problem is that there is a huge amount of grass in this, but not only in this, but also in the Hortobágy pastures, which are uncontrolled by the national park, without animals, in the hands of gangsters. And it wasn't a two-inch, it wasn't a three-inch parlagweed, it was a six-foot, foot-long piece of weed. I don't think it's going to take too long. I was forced to ask if the minister knew what the grass looked like. Because he does not know that there must be good agricultural practice in Hungary, as required by the European Union, clearly he would not have answered me foolishly. I also drew your attention to this, so that next time you will lecture your apparatus on this. So I have to ask you, Mr Secretary of State - but the Minister is here - are you serious about checking areas contaminated with ragweed? I'm asking this on behalf of two million allergic people, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The struggle of ragweed and man resembles the battle of David and Goliath. The only good news is that David wins in the original story. So we're hoping that the human effort we're making in the fight against ragweed will eventually come to fruition. Let me tell you some of the numbers that I'd like to prove to you that I'm not talking in the air, but that we're working very hard and fighting the ragweed. A measure has already been taken for 1125 of the 1296 retail notifications received by 18 September 2017. We know the physiology of ragweed, and we know how hard it is to fight this. In the 2017 budget, HUF 46.1 million is available to fight ragweed. These defences are, of course, in progress. We've got a chopper recon going on right now. The advantage of aerial reconnaissance is that large areas can be visited in a short period of time, as well as areas where land-based access to these properties is more difficult. In order to increase the effectiveness of the control of ragweed, in view of the pollen situation in 2017 in the case of public employment programmes, a fifth cast-off rate was also set at the previous four cast-off rates, which will take place between 4-8 September. [[18.20]] Knowledge-transferring, thinking-forming activity in 2012, is one of the central elements of the government's action plan to date. Long-term changes can only be achieved through a change of perspective, by the voluntary behaviour of the land user, and he is right, by pushing for strict control and punishment. I fully support this by taking action very hard and effective against illegal users. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2017-09-18-195	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Secretary of State, but I'm telling you, Minister, air control can't tell the difference between pork chops and parlagweed, let's leave it at that. You have to go over there and check it out. It's just that almost all the inspectors are sick, I mean, they're allergic, because after a year, they're gonna be the ones who aren't. It was the biggest shock to me last week, and that's why I asked this question, because I went to the Rural Development Secretary's office to hold a press conference, and I found 70 square feet of parlag grass 20 meters from the entrance. I pulled this out, I'd like to say, my green coat turned yellow to the elbows, so it was pollinating. But the worst part is, there's a school next to it. I know this is the territory of the municipality, because before the Secretary of State, there were only two threads, right, half a meter. But by the way, I'm assuming that either the people working there don't care about this topic, or they don't know what the grass looks like. I just brought it, but I'm gonna show it to the congressmen. [[He's showing it to me.]] I'll give it to anyone if you don't know. You should make sure that at least it's normal for the kids to know what it looks like in their own environment. 'Cause if it's small and we pull it out, it's not dusting yet. But if it's half a meter long, it's gonna make a terrible problem. So, Mr Secretary of State, this needs to be dealt with in substance, and those who take this issue frivolously must be punished to death. I don't know what else to say.
u2017-09-18-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-18-197	My dear fellow Member, Thank you for your role in detachment. With regard to the transfer of knowledge, I would like to say what we have done so far. In 28,000 copies, we delivered to 900 schools a publication called the ragweed-smart one in which we presented this plant. As a result of the action plan, the knowledge of ragweed was incorporated into both the National Basics and the framework curriculum based on it. In doing so, one of the government's objectives of raising awareness is to make children as young as possible familiar with weeds, their potential to protect against them, and the health effects of ragweed pollen. I have to tell you that the Ministry of Agriculture has signed a partnership agreement with the Civil Service Association. In 20 county associations, 2 thousand associations with 52,000 members, the vigilantes are actively involved in the removal of ragweed. As David and Goliath, I very much hope that in the end, indeed, David, man will win against the ragweed. I really hope that's how it's gonna be. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-198	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How many families can remain on the side of the road? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] Congressman accepts the identity of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-199	Mr President, Dear House, I must point out to Minister that, by interrupting the parliamentary session, I have taken my way to Kossuth Square, where a demonstration is taking place at the moment, against the policy of this government against foreign exchange credit victims. We have to highlight the word that it hurts, because while the government propagates itself by solving this problem, it didn't even put it on posters, that it did, but the statistics were stubborn, even the government couldn't fake the fact that there were over a hundred thousand people in a delay that they were threatened by the horror of eviction in the long term. It can be seen that the end-payment only helped the luckier, more efficient people, so it did not provide a comprehensive solution. With regard to the exchange rate barrier on which we have not fully supported this arrangement, it is now apparent that, after five years, when the amounts on the collection accounts fall on those affected, they may not be able to pay this seriously and to the extent that the government had expected. Family bankruptcy protection has provided only a few hundred people with any valuable assistance, and as far as the National Asset Manager is concerned, there are a small number of people who have been able to buy back their own property, after this government has unduly given the affected banks hundreds of billions of the victims' money, the property of the injured. Mr. Secretary. There are many aspects of the problem, and we have also been debating the proposals for solutions for years. At the same time, I would draw your attention to a step of 1.0. This would be that you or any of you who are competent in this matter, stand up, once the hour of immediate questioning is over, go out to the square, talk to these people, listen to them. You can't find a solution without them. On the other hand, a sworn government cannot spit in the eyes of voters and do not talk to representatives of tens of thousands of people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Right now, these people are complaining that no government...
u2017-09-18-200	Congressman!
u2017-09-18-201	...that they can't make contact with any government. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-202	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-18-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As to your warning, Mr President, who should I speak to, the Fidesz Members, the individual constituencies and the listed Members are also regularly at the disposal of all our constituents, and believe me, Member, after Fidesz gives most of the individual Members and there are Fidesz Members in the constituency, there has not been a host hour, there has not been in the last seven years that my fellow Members have not received such a request. All my Fidesz fellow Members acted according to their conscience and oath when they supported initiatives that helped those who took on foreign exchange loans in a size of significant hundreds of thousands and even millions. I will not bring you here - I will not bring you here, but I could do - questions as to whether it was mandatory to borrow foreign currency. Because we are treating this issue with restraint here in Parliament. Moreover, taxpayers' money has been generously supported by the government on several occasions by foreign exchange lenders. But what's shocking to me is that 60 percent of the foreign exchange credentials who have already been saved by the budget say they'd take on the same currency loan again. I think that makes you think. So when we help the foreign exchange lenders, we need to know exactly that all the help has a price, and sooner or later, a good part of the help is paid by the Hungarian taxpayers, the taxpayers who have not taken on foreign exchange loans. That's something you should never forget. On the other hand, as regards the specific issues: I do not dispute that there are foreign exchange credentials who have remained at the very end of this foreign exchange credit arrangement alongside a one-off redemption, a price barrier and a number of other measures. Believe me, the government and the Ministry of Justice, of course, after there are court proceedings, and this ties the hands of the government and the Ministry of Justice, are constantly following the possibility of how you can help. I think the decision that we made on 21 March 2017 is that the property can be auctioned at 100 percent, and it also settles the fate of evictions and auctions. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-204	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-205	Mr President, Dear House, I must say, I thank you, Minister, for the words of the Minister, that if you had really solved this problem, you would probably not have received a mass of victims who still demand some sort of justice in your host hours. I cannot resolve the contradiction that these people took up their so-called loan at HUF 150-155-160, and you converted it at HUF 256. So it is certain that we need a new accounting law, an agreement where the victims' money can be regrouped, and no Hungarian government will be able to get away with this. It is because the social and social disaster, which without exaggerating has resulted in the destruction of hundreds of thousands, makes a significant contribution to the dehydrated economic situation. All this is an undeniable process, so in addition to a new accounting law, it would be the duty of this government to fill the bench of the defendants with those responsible, be they bank leaders, be they executives, be they unqualified intermediaries. But this situation can't go on like this. I'm asking you to go to the square, speak to the people involved, not just in reception hours, under organized circumstances, but whenever...
u2017-09-18-206	Congressman! It went 12 seconds too far. Thank you very much for your reply. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2017-09-18-207	You are demanding those responsible, but not so long ago a debate day was initiated with those responsible. In this Parliament there is a political party, MSZP, the former finance minister of which promoted, authorised and advertised the institution of foreign exchange credit after 2002. In particular, Fidesz provided HUF-based, state-supported preferential loans for home creation after 2002 with foreign exchange loans from the Socialist Government. [[18.30]] That is why one and a half million families have been indebted to Hungary, and you have initiated a debate day with them. Okay, please be consistent, and within your party, represent that you can't be politically involved in the next period with the sellers of foreign exchange credentials, the victims of damages. On the subject of speaking, we are all talking to every voter who speaks to us at the entrance to Parliament or wants something from us, and this should not be a problem. What I can tell you is that this HUF 256 could be a debateable position. But how much is the Swiss franc now? 270. How much was in the same period? 319. Who paid for the difference, and who pays for the check? Hungary and the Hungarian taxpayers. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-208	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question:, Settle Bonds: Who is behind the money laundering network? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-209	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, the construction is now known to everyone. The Orbán government has already allowed 20,000 immigrants into Hungary and the Schengen area with settlement bonds. A consciously organized money laundering system has been created that serves the financial benefit of a defined narrow circle, in the middle of which is Antal Rogán. While the intermediate offshore companies have now made HUF 180 billion, the state has suffered only losses from this construction, which can now reach HUF 14 billion. So this business is not in the interests of Hungary. This business is burdened with infinite concentrations. This is a money-laundering scheme, which carries serious security risks, since they did not effectively verify those who bought and obtained this residence permit, and when five years have passed, when the money is repaid, the buddy offshore companies can disappear with their customers' money, and this shara will fall back to Hungary again. So you can see exactly how things work at Fidesz. It is customary for someone to make money to write a law for him or for this construction. Why is Antal Rogán hiding? Why isn't he answering? So I'm going to keep up with my questions. How is it that offshore companies that made more than 100 billion in this business were created just a day before Rogán Antal submitted the bill and three such companies were set up in the same week? How is it that one company's official documents were approved by the Economic Commission four days before they were even issued in Liechtenstein? Finally, my last and most important question: did the offshore companies know about the construction before the Parliament itself, because Antal Rogán and his circle were behind it? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-09-18-210	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You may have mentioned the word immigration. In this regard, let me point out that you have left a party that supports immigration to take a seat in a party that also supports immigration. As far as the specific question is concerned, you are addressing this issue in the wrong place because I would like to tell you that the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister does not deal with the issue of settlement bonds and has not dealt with it. But to ensure that I do not sit down unfinished, I would like to inform you that you do not know that this programme has been decided by the Parliament's Economic Committee, so I would like to urge you to ask your new fellow political groups why, when this programme was debated in the Committee on Economic Affairs, they have not made any amendments or raised any objections at all. I would also like to tell you that the residency bond programme has played an important role in financing the Hungarian economy, at a time when the Hungarian economy was even weaker. There was much less interest to be paid. You don't know what you know. Much less interest had to be paid than in the case of standard foreign exchange bonds. And since the Hungarian economy is now on a stronger footing, this bond program could be implemented. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2017-09-18-213	Secretary of State, Antal Rogán submitted the law, Antal Rogán was chairman of the Economic Committee, he brought these companies in and made a decision, and his circle of acquaintances appear to be on track about these companies. It is not true that this construction would serve the interests of the Hungarian State in anything. It's a loss-making construction. It was the Government Debt Management Center itself that described a loss of 1.2 billion to me in its reply now that it is the loss of the state. And by the way, they're constantly keeping secrets about this case, and the State Debt Management Center doesn't give us certain data in this story. After two lost lawsuits, he even undertakes to go to Mania, just so he doesn't have to be published, he cannot be reported to the committees, he is constantly sabotaged, and Antal Rogán is constantly hiding. So until then, you will have these questions, don't hide behind you or behind the Speaker of Parliament, and you will have to answer them. We will ask these questions until we have an answer. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And, of course, you'll be able to expect to be accounted for. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-214	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-18-215	Thank you very much. So you know very well that this programme was decided at a public meeting of the Economic Committee, which was also attended by Members who are now your fellow political groups. I would also like to tell you that the bond claimants, speaking of security aspects, have been through multiple security filters, have also been examined by police, TEK and specialist services. Moreover, this is not about citizenship, it is about a residence permit that can be withdrawn at any time. The slanders of the members of the government, disguised as questions, have been and will continue to be rejected. And if you are really interested in security risks, I would like to ask you to convince the Brussels representative of the LMP not to support compulsory resettlement quotas in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-216	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:36 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, [[Interviews from Jobbik: Can't we have another round? I need another round.]] Fellow Members! They do not have the opportunity to hold the meeting yet, so give this to the president. Thank you. Dear Parliament, It follows a joint general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information and between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information, and between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information until closure. The submissions are T/17298., T/17299. and T/17303. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the author of the legislative proposals. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-18-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The conclusion of the conventions now tabled will also contribute to strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. Today, security is the main Community value in Europe, which will be protected by the government by all possible means. After the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of classified information, professional work was started to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries. The first milestone in the work towards achieving this goal was the first bilateral classified data protection agreement, which entered into force in 2012, which our country concluded with the Slovak Republic. Dear Parliament, Hungary subsequently concluded an agreement already published in the Act on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information with the Republic of Poland, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Latvia, the French Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Albania, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of Montenegro and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. [[18.40]] For several countries, negotiations on similar conventions have already been concluded and the final text of the conventions is being established. I am currently asking for the support of the Honourable Parliament for the adoption of agreements with the Italian, Cypriot and Bulgarian parties on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The Conventions aim primarily to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between countries. In this context, they shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties, designate the competent authorities, provide for the compatibility of each level of classification with each other and the procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreements currently under discussion meet the interests of Hungary, serve the right objectives, strengthen cooperation between countries in criminal matters, fight against terrorism, and serve the security of the countries involved. In this regard, I would ask the honourable Parliament, my honourable Members, to discuss and support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that the presentation of the Ministry of Home Affairs has provided a precise framework for the need for agreements of this type, so for our part, on the part of the MSZP fraction, we fully support this convention and its publication. I would not want to say the same for a long time because of the progress of time, as Secretary of State, but I would like to add that the creation and publication of such a convention is the first important, necessary, but not sufficient step to achieve these goals together, as many of us who are involved in the work of NATO Parliamentary Assembly are constantly experiencing criticisms about how the services concerned do not always cooperate with each other in their daily practice. So in Hungarian, the paper can provide a framework, but then the practice must be smooth and smooth and flexible to really quickly, at the right time, get the right people to access this information, which can really help to strengthen security, to combat terrorism or even organised crime. So what I would really like to draw attention to for a few sentences is that the paper is okay, we support it, and then in practice it should be run as efficiently as possible in everyday life. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-18-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-18-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a combined general debate, so I would like to speak about the agreements with Italy, Bulgaria and Cyprus, with a few small details for each country. We are talking about agreements on the exchange of classified information in this case, and I would also like to state that the Jobbik Group supports these proposals. It is worth knowing that the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified data on 14 December 2009. Act LXV of 1995 on State Secrets and Service Secrets Act and Act LXXXV of 1998 on the National Security Inspectorate replaced by law. As a result, Hungary has been able to start negotiations with other countries on agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, the results of which are the agreements that we are discussing now. For Cyprus and Bulgaria, this is a completely new convention, while for Italy, such a convention already existed, and it was only necessary to renew it. We also see that these conventions greatly promote international crime prevention and law enforcement, so we fully support the legislative proposals that are pointing in this direction. The security and protection of Hungary and Hungarians must be the most important aspect, and this is particularly true when it comes to immigration crisis, because the data of people passing through different countries can be shared by states on the basis of such agreements, so that dangerous elements can be filtered out more effectively or suspicious data can be detected. One more short remark: in terms of Cyprus, I would like to underline that, unfortunately, in 2014, the government closed the Cyprus embassy of Hungary. We believe that this decision should definitely be reviewed, since it is a Member State of the European Union in this case too, and in order to strengthen relations, it should be considered that this earlier step, as in the case of Estonia, should be re-evaluated; I refer to the latter because they are the Presidents-in-Office of the Council of the European Union. So I would like to add such a signal to the government in this forum, which I have already done on another occasion. But I tell you, we will be able to support all three proposals together in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Members have indicated their intention to speak, no one has applied for a two-minute speech. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-09-18-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Members who spoke in this debate for their support. I agree with Mr Attila Mesterházy that these conventions are, in effect, an opportunity for these cooperations to fulfil their role and serve the security of the countries in question. I would like to stress that the aim of Hungary, the competent Hungarian bodies, in cooperation, is to ensure that this cooperation is meaningful and effective, so what we consider the conventions not to be the goal, but to be the start, so that this cooperation starts and is effective. I also thank Congressman Tibor Bana for his statement of support. I trust that these three conventions, which are currently under discussion and tabled, will contribute to the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. In the hope of this, I thank you once again for your supporting contributions, and again I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-224	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to our next item, I'm ordering a five-minute trial break, and we're waiting for a representative of the government. [[Hungarian Levente arrives in the Chamber.]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Please remain seated, Mr. Secretary of State has arrived. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to condemn and take action against the law-breaking Ukrainian education law follows. Presentation submitted by István Szávay, Jobbik, Bernadett Szél, LMP, Károly Panczél, Fidesz, Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP, Zsolt Németh, Fidesz, and Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik, representatives H/1739. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the derogation from the adopted house rule, the opening speech and the closing clause will have a total of 20 minutes, 10 minutes for the government representative's statement, 7 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion and 10 minutes for the group's speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President Zsolt Németh, rapporteur on the agenda. I would like to inform the President that he has a total time frame of 20 minutes for his speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. President. [[18.50]]
u2017-09-18-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian-Ukrainian relations have experienced very difficult times in the last two weeks, and this is particularly sad in light of the fact that Hungary was among the first countries to recognise the independent Ukraine in 1991, and the Hungarian embassy in Kiev was perhaps the first foreign Hungarian embassy to open its doors. Over the past two and a half decades, we have put a great deal of emphasis on helping Ukraine, which is always in a difficult situation. This has been the case in recent years when Ukraine was the victim of a military aggression. During this period, we felt it was particularly important to emphasise and demonstrate the kind of support and solidarity that Hungary has for Ukraine. And there have been numerous manifestations of this time, but it is also important to stress that Hungary clearly condemns territorial military aggression against Ukraine and that we respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country to the full. There have been many very specific forms of solidarity in recent years. During the last period, we have provided substantial humanitarian support to Ukraine. Over the past summer, hundreds of children have been on holiday in Hungary, not only from Transcarpathia, but also from the areas of Donetsk, Eastern Ukraine, and diplomatic support has been so pronounced in Hungary over the past few years that I can safely say Ukraine would not have won or won the visa waiver for the European Union for such an early example. The Association Agreement entered into force on 1 September this year. We have also taken a clear action to bring the Association Agreement into force. And I think that we have laid down in the basic Treaty the policy of support that has defined Hungary's Ukraine policy for the last few days. At the same time, I believe that the wording that the Hungarian Foreign Minister has applied, that Hungary feels stabbed in the back because of the adoption of the Education Act, yet it describes precisely what we could perhaps say, that the long period of conclusion of the Treaty covers a period of two and a half decades, and the question is rightfully raised: does this political line management, which has been designated by the Treaty, make sense for us to pursue this kind of neighbourhood policy? After all, we are in the face of the education law that has been passed recently by the government coalition, which, by the way, considers itself a representative of European standards and committed to Euroatlantic integration. There have been worrying signs, since we should not forget that this new Parliament started its operation by questioning the language law, but then, two years ago, as a result of the strong and clear action of the international community, the Ukrainian President did not sign the position on the language law. Since then, much of the suspension and the proposals that have been submitted to replace the so far language law have not been accepted by the Ukrainian verhovna rada. All we can do is to clearly condemn the educational law adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament two weeks ago, which is simply about, if we are to put it in a very specific way, sealing the fate of 80 Hungarian educational institutions, such as the fate of primary schools, the fate of secondary education institutions and the fate of the Hungarian Faculty of the University of Ungvár. I think, honourable Members and fellow Members, that when this law is defended by the President of Ukraine as a sacred right of Ukraine to a mother tongue education - as we heard yesterday - let us ask quietly and quietly that, if Ukraine has a sacred right to education in its mother tongue, then the national communities living in Ukraine, the Hungarians living there, are not a sacred right to continue exercising their right to education in their mother tongue. The five parliamentary parties considered it important, after the adoption of the law, to express their joint objection to this law at a five-party meeting. And we also agreed that we would take this matter as a national matter in the coming period. A chapter of this is that today the House can negotiate a five-party parliamentary resolution proposal. And I trust that the spirit of cooperation in the adoption and development of this parliamentary decision will remain in the coming period, and will characterize the manifestation and action of Hungarian politics in the coming period, as there are very difficult weeks ahead of the Hungarian community in Ukraine, in Transcarpathia of 150,000. And I also hope that, once such an agreement is reached on a national matter, there may be another opportunity, and it will not be a unique occasion when the angel will fly over the head of the Hungarian Parliament, but we will be able to come up with a consensus on national matters and act together. The essence of this agreement, therefore, is to jointly call on Ukraine and the President of Ukraine not to sign the draft law on education adopted by Parliament and not to allow Ukraine to bring this law into force. Within the framework of the proposal for a decision, we encourage the Government to use bilateral and multilateral fora in order to exert diplomatic pressure on Ukraine. Here I would like to emphasise the importance of bilateral relations. I consider it important that Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó met with Foreign Minister Klimkin during the informal Gymnich meeting in Tallinn. And I also think it is important that at the level of the Hungarian Parliament, at the level of our committees, we take advantage of the potential of bilateral diplomatic relations, so that Hungary cannot be accused of attacking, we exercise pressure on Ukraine without simultaneously using channels of bilateral dialogue and diplomatic negotiations. [[19.00]] But I would like to underline here that, over the last two years, we have kept the issue of both language law and education law on the agenda during our diplomatic contacts, because this bill was in the tube. I find it regrettable that our efforts so far have not resulted in results, and it is therefore inevitable that Hungary, having used a wide range of bilateral pressure tools, should also appear in multilateral fora and take action in a regional framework. I would like to welcome the fact that, at the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, four foreign ministers, Bulgarian, Romanian, Greek and Hungarian foreign ministers have revealed themselves, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that Poland has also expressed their disapproval, and we know that the national minority problem in Ukraine is extremely complex, but all these countries, as European Union countries, are also involved in the minority situation in Ukraine. The decision of the Hungarian Parliament initiates international forums to make their views clear on this educational law. Here, from the point of view of the Hungarian Parliament, international organisations with parliamentary assemblies, such as the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, are particularly important. In this regard, I would like to inform the House that today, with the head of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Romanian Europe, Mr Titus Korlecean - a socialist politician, I have had the opportunity to agree that we will jointly initiate the extraordinary debate at the October session of the Council of Europe Parliament's Assembly, and we hope that if this extraordinary debate is held, we can only strengthen the enforcement of the Council of Europe's human rights standards towards Ukraine. It is a good sign - while we are at the Council of Europe - that the Ukrainian Government has decided to request the Venice Commission's standard control of the Education Act. I have no doubt that the Council of Europe's standards are not in line with the Education Act. The Minority Framework Convention, as the Council of Europe's most important minority protection document, makes clear that acquired minority rights cannot be withdrawn from a community, and this is the case when students in the fifth grade would have their right to learn in their mother tongue, but more and more decisively, and in the end, they would virtually eliminate this possibility at the level of higher education in their entirety. Ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, serious debates can be held on the interpretation of this particular Article 7, but the most authentic are Ukrainian Members of Parliament, such as László Brenzovics, the Bulgarian advocate, and the experts who formed their views in the colours and colors of the Hungarian Pedagogist Association of Transcarpathia. They have no doubt that this article 7 is about the fact that over the age of 10, as the Hungarian Prime Minister has already said today, the possibility of learning Hungarian would be gradually eliminated and the only possibility of learning Hungarian language and literature would be maintained. The stakes are extraordinary, because I think that we need to see the contexus, we need to see what is happening in Ukraine at the moment. There is a war in Ukraine, and we all see the eastern front of this war very sharply, and we also see the Crimean front sharp. This draft law risks creating a serious tension in the western and southern parts of Ukraine. Let me ask you a rhetorical question about whose interest it is to destabilize the whole country, because this law gives us an excellent opportunity to destabilize the whole country - Hungary does not. And then, when we draw up this parliamentary resolution, our main goal is not to have the Ukrainian President sign this legislation because it could put Ukraine in an unmanageable state, which is already in a difficult situation. It is in our fundamental interest to ensure stability through the provision of minority and European standards, to ensure the preservation of minority identity, and to continue to promote Ukraine's European perspective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-226	I thank Mr President very much for his speech as rapporteur. I would like to inform the President that he will have a four-minute time frame for the closing. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-18-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We welcome the broad political consensus surrounding the Hungarian action on the Ukrainian education law. After all, what other matter could call for internal political peace than this situation which is an existential threat to the Transcarpathian minority. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is nothing less than the existence of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia, the insurance of its longer-term existence. This is not a law regulating the field of expertise, which is before the presidential decree, but a law which, if implemented consistently by Ukraine, will lead to the complete collapse and total inability of the Hungarian education in Transcarpathia in the short term, which could lead to the liquidation of the Hungarian minority in Ukraine within a generation's distance and the loss of total identity within a generation's time. I venture that since World War II no such thing has happened in the Carpathian Basin, there has been no such a thing as a democratically elected parliament, a democratic parliament, has committed such a violation of the law. Even in Soviet times, there were no examples - I stress that in Soviet times there was no precedent - that the fundamental rights of the Hungarians in the Soviet Union were limited to this extent, as Mr President referred to. This is an event that we must fight with every means, and, of course, the most effective way and the most effective stage of this struggle is to raise awareness of the international community and to make the international community realize what is going on here, by the way, let us add, during a cynical great power defense. After all, if we look at the revelations made by certain partners regarding Ukrainian law, then we can conclude that it is the arrogant and cynical great attitude, which in geopolitical context is willing only to look at such an event and to sacrifice the elemental interests of a minority, in this case as well. We must fight against this, Honourable Parliament, by acting together, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in the last few days. We have all acted on the most important relevant forums of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the European Union and the United Nations, as we have done on a bilateral basis, all our partners, who may have a say in this, have been informed of this unheard of violation of law, which, once again, we cannot tolerate, nor will we be able to tolerate, if it is incorporated into the law and entered into force. If the Ukrainian party sees, as we see, that it is worth avoiding a diplomatic escalation in bilateral relations, then it will come to its senses in time and this law will not be put into effect. [[19.10]] If this happens, there will be bitter times in the bilateral relationship, which neither party has any interest in, I believe. Of course, the least interest of the Transcarpathian Hungarians in question, who, I add, have always been a peaceful, loyal, Ukrainian minority who has not denied their citizenship and who have been no threat to Ukrainian statehood, nation, Ukrainian nation building in the last 25 years. More has been added to the independent Ukraine, of course, in proportion to the number, of course, than perhaps any other minority. The Hungarians in Transcarpathia do not deserve this, and we cannot accept this loss even if we believe that it is not primarily against the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, because we cannot see them as suffering a collateral loss, because there is much more about the survival of an indigenous minority. We also cannot accept that the Hungarians of Transcarpathia are also cynically classified as not an indigenous minority by Ukrainian legislation, but as a so-called national minority receiving less rights, while there are quite a few minority groups in Ukraine that are not so drastically affected by the law, these so-called indigenous minorities. Thus, it is also contrary to the Ukrainian constitution and contrary to international law, which makes such an absurd and incomprehensible distinction between a minority and a minority. Dear Parliament, Once again, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade welcomes to the furthest extent this broad political cooperation that has developed around the fight against the law. We will take all the forums and opportunities to back off, hinder entry into force, and then continue to fight it in case this happens. I would also like to send a message to Transcarpathian Hungarians that the bigger the problem, the more support they will receive from the mother country, the more they will be able to rely on the mother country, as they have seen in recent years. We also send a message to Ukraine and to the Ukrainian people that the kind of humanitarian and development aid that has been held accountable for and that Hungary has been given maximum benefit can continue to be expected in the future. Because we do not want to beat the dust on the thousands of Ukrainian children who, in recent years, have been mostly war orphans, by the way, on holiday in Hungary, and in Hungary they have experienced a humanity that they may not have experienced in their homeland. We do not want to beat the Transcarpathian Hungarians, to whom we provide economic development resources and Ukrainian infrastructure resources in the order of EUR 100 million, but we want to enforce our interests in the political space, and we want to take the responses we are working on in this space, not on the Ukrainian people, but on the criminal policy that drove Ukraine into this decision. Dear House, Thank you for your support, and I would like to stress that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ready to give and will give any help to all those who wish to act against Ukrainian law in this spirit, in the spirit of the resolution, within a wide range of diplomacy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee of the Parliament today discussed the proposal for a decision to condemn and oppose the law-breaking Ukrainian educational law, whose summary report and summary amendment was supported by 34 votes in favour, with a unanimous decision. The substantive, substantive changes are as follows. The National Assembly notes that the law is contrary to those undertaken by Ukraine in the Treaty on the basis of good neighbourliness and cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and Ukraine. This is particularly unfair and reprehensible in the light of the fact that Hungary has done everything in recent years to achieve harmonious relations based on mutual good intentions, and has supported Ukraine's international aspirations and European integration with all possible means. The Parliament also calls on the international community, in particular the European Parliament, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, to condemn the infringement, which is contrary to the values openly declared by the leaders of Ukraine and endangers Ukraine's European future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have a timeframe of 10 to 10 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Károly Panczél of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-18-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! In the context of the law-breaking Ukrainian education law, let a positive one be allowed to express a positive one, namely that it seems that in today's Hungarian public life, in politics, action for the Hungarians of the divided parts of the country beyond the border has become a national minimum. The fact that the steps taken in the matter of survival and prosperity in the homeland seem to be a national minimum. Standing up for education and cultural rights and human rights is a national minimum. Last Monday we had this five-party consultation, where there was consensus, and it was a pleasure to hear now my fellow Member who brought the results of the vote of the Legislative Committee here: we heard that they supported this proposal for a resolution with a unanimous yes. It is a good thing that from 5 December 2004 we got to this point, and we got to the point where it seems that Dezső Szabó is catching up with a sentence by Hungarian writer from Cluj-Napoca that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. That a very important sentence of our Fundamental Law, that Hungary is responsible for Hungarianism beyond the borders, also appears in today's Hungarian public life. I very much hope that we will get there in Hungarian public life that we do not need such negative stories, that the main objective of Hungarian national policy, the issue of survival and prosperity in the homeland, will be an irreversible and irreversible goal. Well, this House, in Ukraine, has passed an anti-minority education law, which makes it impossible for our Hungarian students to continue to study in our mother tongue after primary school. It's an insulting law. It is offensive because we have always supported Ukrainian efforts, in many cases we thought that what happened in Ukraine was even quoted as 1956. This law is offensive, because it should be the visa waiver, be it the care of Ukrainian soldiers in Hungary, we have always been there for Ukraine. This law is offensive because we have delivered more than 800 million forints of humanitarian aid, not to Transcarpathia, but to Ukraine, Ukraine, health institutions and social institutions. This law is offensive, because, by the way, quite rightly, we have camped 2600 Ukrainian children and have been on holiday in Hungary for the past two years. This law is offensive, because if we had to, we always helped, if necessary, through Hungary, gas was transported to Ukraine. And it's a hurtful law, because the statue of Sevchenko is one of our salutations to the modern Ukrainian literary language. But now this Ukrainian legislation is called XX. It summons the darkest shadows of the century. We've experienced the XX left behind. In the 20th century, when ethnically pure populations were sought in a neighbouring state and violent assimilation was conducted. Ukraine did this the week when it was adopted by the European Economic Area, when the Association Agreement was concluded with them with our strong support. Ukraine is part of the great Central Europe. But right now, it's getting more and more unstable. Because Ukraine has now turned back from the path of promising European integration with its educational law. [[19.20]] This law also violates our bilateral treaty. I stress and draw the attention of the secretary of state, through them the Hungarian Government's attention to the fact that we have reached an age limit: a bilateral interstate contract, the Ukrainian-Hungarian treaty, has been interrupted. This should make us think, not only about us, but also about the Hungarian government. It is also contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution itself, since it restricts previously acquired rights. We therefore hope very much that, as we have heard from President Zsolt Németh, Mr Porosenko will return this law. I think that I do not have to convince the House here to support this proposal for a resolution, because our joint five-party stand last Monday showed even to the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, but to the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, in any case, I hope also to the Ukrainian legislature that the Hungarian nation has joined forces here. I thank the parliamentary parties for actually implementing this joint action at the beginning of a election campaign next year and crossing the shadow of our own past. I would like to note in brackets that the success and partiality of our school in Targu Mures shows that we could also win an educational case against Romania through decisive action. This is the present joint action, this decision tells us that the Hungarian nation is strong and sober, and so is its future in Transcarpathia. This is also a new Central European cooperation, because we are not alone, because we also have partners with Hungarian support from Poland, Bulgaria, Romania and Transylvania, and we are not alone in this matter. From here I would also like to thank the Hungarian ethnic advocates in the Hungarian Parliament, as they have also expressed their opposition in the past few days and weeks. Dear House, We are not involved in the sale of Ukraine, but in its European integration when we adopt such a warning parliamentary resolution. I would ask you all to support this in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-18-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gyöngyösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik also welcomes this parliamentary resolution; indeed, it is a rare moment when a political alliance is established on foreign policy and national policy issues, and we act together to protect the language rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia. This step on the part of Ukraine is neither in its form nor in its content worthy of a country which is seeking the European Union and has set European integration as its goal. The Ukrainian educational law, as has already been said before me, is contrary not only to Ukraine's own constitution, but also to its commitments arising from bilateral Ukrainian-Hungarian and international treaties. This is a sneaky, sneaky step, as many of the previous speakers have pointed out, since Ukraine first waited for the decision on visa waiver and the conclusion of the ratification process of the Association Treaty, and only then introduced this law, thus stabbing the countries that supported this integration process, including Hungary. With this Ukraine has entered a self-destructive course. However, not only is Ukraine ashamed of this new law adopted, but also of the Western world. I would like to remind you of the joy expressed by the diplomats of the United States of America in Kiev when this law was passed. This is also the shame of the Western world, which regularly places emphasis on individual rights around the world, always stands up for individual rights - quite rightly, I note - but, at the same time, for collective rights, for the collective rights of indigenous minorities, it never stands up so combatively. The protection of indigenous minorities, ethnic rights is at least as important as the protection of individual rights. Here I would also like to express a bit of self-criticism with Hungary and with regard to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which may have failed to draw the world's attention by using diplomatic means, explain the importance of collective rights and the importance of protecting our Western partners, our Western allies. For as long as countries and major powers in Western Europe have dealt with these issues historically, here in Central and Eastern Europe, the tensions arising from ethnic conflicts in our region are still living problems with us. So there are many lessons to be learned from this case, including diplomacy. We may need to pay more attention in the future to better articulate these local anomalies and better protect interests, the rights of national minorities and indigenous minorities. As has already been said from previous speakers, there have indeed been worrying signs before, part of a process that has resulted in this educational law, since Ukraine has not been using the harshest assimilation tools for the first time in the process of becoming a nation. Since the beginning, Ukraine has had signs of this since its independence, but since 2014 signs of gross assimilation have been pronounced and constantly appearing. Ukraine has not respected the rights of indigenous minorities since 2014. Three years ago, the world rolled up and watched a kind of diplomatic war between Russia and Ukraine, a very serious conflict. Three years ago, the Ukrainian power, Kiev, attacked the Russian minorities by withdrawing the language law by making such laws and continuing this type of discrimination legislation, which now affects Hungarians. He declared war on nationalities, while Hungary practiced a multitude of unilateral gestures against Ukraine instead of standing up for Hungarian minorities in Transcarpathia and winning the allies with whom we could mobilize on behalf of indigenous minorities, the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia in the European Union. This is an important lesson, I ask that we draw these conclusions, conclusions, and learn from these mistakes. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-18-235	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, It is a strange paradox for our lives, for our public life, that the sun comes out of the storm clouds, to put it simply: there is something good about all evils. The good sign now - as the speakers before me have remembered - is that the parliamentary parties have reached agreement on the issues of national political fate. The evil, on the other hand, is the danger, the threat posed by the Ukrainian educational law to the Hungarian minority and to all the minorities living in Ukraine. Nor can we be comforted by the fact that some 20 percent of the population in Ukraine belong to a minority; they are equally affected. We must take care of our responsibility for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia and, above all, we must speak for it. The draft parliamentary resolution lists nine international multilateral or bilateral conventions which are violated by the Ukrainian educational law; I repeat, nine, and in addition to them or among them, there is also the Ukrainian constitution. This is, therefore, the legal issue of the situation, which I do not have time to explain, and it may not be necessary to explain, because the speakers before me have told me in detail what acquired rights they are withdrawing from minorities there, including the Hungarian minority. [[19.30]] But it's not just a legal question. Such a law also contradicts common sense, for young people who cannot learn their mother tongue are basically doomed to a lack of hope. It is therefore unacceptable from a professional point of view to the argument made by the Ukrainian Minister for Education or Secretary of State, which we have heard several times, who argued in favour of the law that they want to ensure equal opportunities for minorities living in Ukraine, or to learn Ukrainian. It's a wooden iron ring. A person's basic chance of development is to learn his mother tongue, to which he was born, to which he knows well, to which he thinks, to which he can read. In addition, it is not excluded or even strengthened that it knows the language of the country, because that is how it will be able to cope with companies and jobs there. It is also unacceptable that, in the previous negotiations with Ukrainian partners, the Ukrainian party assured the Hungarian negotiators that they would resolve this issue. They didn't solve it. Therefore, the credibility of Ukrainian leading politicians is also raised, to which we Christian democrats are particularly sensitive. We cannot accept any hypocrisy, false promise that simply means a lie, and the accusation of defamation in this case is a true judgment. We therefore expect Ukrainian political factors to finally decide whether they want to belong to Europe, which has been confirmed so far by signing contracts that no one has forced them to sign or join them, to do so voluntarily. And if they want to belong to Europe, it follows that the standards they have signed should be followed in everyday life by laws and laws that are now protecting the rights of minorities. Finally, I would like to thank the Government, the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the decisive action they have shown in recent days. For our part, we will do the same at all international forums, personally in the Council of Europe, where we will continue to represent this line. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP Group, please.
u2017-09-18-237	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Act of Education adopted by the Ukrainian legislature at second reading on 5 September 2017 severely restricts the right of Hungarians in Transcarpathia to use their educational and mother tongue rights currently granted by Ukrainian laws. The law makes it impossible to teach mother tongue in minority language and condemns all primary, secondary and higher education institutions operating in languages other than Ukrainian to be closed. The case is extremely serious for Transcarpathian Hungarians, which is why the LMP faction considered it extremely important to support any initiative on the basis of which the Hungarian political elite, the parties of the Hungarian Parliament, unanimously condemn this law. Leader Bernadett Szél, co-president of our party and candidate for Prime Minister, has therefore initiated the signing of this political declaration by the leaders of all parties with parliamentary factions, which in its content corresponds to the proposal for a parliamentary resolution, except that the political declaration we initiated asks President Petro Poroshenko not to sign the law. We must say that no one can put the Hungarian language on the market. We therefore offer our help to the Hungarian organisations in Transcarpathia and the Hungarian Government, because we have a common national interest in maintaining higher education in the Hungarian language in the neighbouring countries in the separated areas. The school does not separate, but connects, which can overcome historical grievances and strike a balance between human and national interests. The LMP faction therefore welcomes the draft parliamentary decision on this basis. During the preliminary discussion of the draft, we initiated and initiated the government to take all necessary steps, and what is extremely important is that the competent committees of Parliament are regularly informed about current developments. Why is this reporting obligation important? Because it may appear from the initial manifestations that the government and specifically the foreign minister were somewhat surprised by the Ukrainian adoption of the law. Although the draft legislation has been known for at least six months. The Hungarian government, on the other hand, did not seem to have been able to adequately assert interest on the international stage and could not use the tools of diplomacy. Because they did, they could have had tools, but because of the government's isolation in Europe and the excessive Russian influence, he couldn't take action in time. The government has also neglected regular and continuous consultation with the Ukrainian leadership at institutionalized forums of Hungarian-Hungarian dialogue, and it is not enough that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was able to add so much comment on the whole matter today. I've just listed the sins, but now it's about a common solution, not recalling preliminary problems. This legislation is contrary to the Copenhagen document and the Paris Charter of the Conference of European Security and Cooperation Organisation for Europe, the European Security Charter and the Astana Declaration of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Charter of Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Persons belonging to National, Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, the Good neighbourly and Cooperation Treaty of Hungary and Ukraine, and the obligations set out in the European Union-Ukraine Association Agreement. On behalf of the LMP faction and its entire political community, I would like to express our support and solidarity with the Hungarians of Transcarpathia. We initiated our MEP Tamás Meszerics to issue a joint statement by the entire Hungarian delegation to the European Parliament. We ask the Hungarian parties to join this initiative. In addition, Bernadett Szél, as a member of the Hungarian OSCE delegation to the OSCE, initiates the examination of the legislation and the launch of discussions on this. We supported the draft decision and the LMP Group accepts and votes in favour with the amendments we have initiated, but we stress that the government's responsibility is unquestioned and that its additional tasks are essential. We ask the Hungarian Government to conduct a foreign policy that does not undermine, but helps the issue of Hungarians across the border. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-09-18-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As Márton Gyöngyösi said, it is indeed a rare moment in foreign policy that some kind of consensus has developed. I would add that this is a problem, of course, because in foreign policy it would be good if this were the more common thing, that we could always think in consensus, but it is also worth paying attention to ensure that this consensus remains. Therefore, I would like to warn you a little bit, if I may say so, Mr Gyöngyösi, that we do not now involve foreign policy issues that make this consensus, so to speak, more fragile. So I think that I should be explicit, then, about how, how, how, how, and how, the Russian-Ukrainian conflict is assessed, how, I think, this is an independent issue from a certain point of view, while, of course, it has something to do with the conflict, because we, for our part, also believe that Russia is aggressor on this issue: it does not have diplomatic disputa with the neighbouring country, but has taken over its territory, in particular. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: I didn't bring this in.]] This conflicts with relatively many laws to put it mildly, in international law, if not with others, even with the fundamental values of humanism. But I'd like to put that question in parentheses. [[19.40]] I would just like to talk about the fact that this conflict has, of course, contributed to the development of the current situation, as long as, at the beginning, he believed in Hungarian diplomacy - and I say this now not as a criticism - the Ukrainian party that these measures actually have an impact on the Russian minority, we have already reached that point, at least on the basis of information from the head of the Hungarian community across the last border, that today the Hungarian minority also appears as a kind of target audience. So not only do Hungarian minorities suffer the negative side effects of an anti-Russian mood in Ukraine, but there are more political considerations behind what has happened in the past. Nevertheless, I also believe that there is strength and value in this foreign policy or parliamentary agreement, because, as Zsolt Németh said, not only the parties with the faction, but even the independent Members supported this proposal. This also has an internal political message, as it is an important message for Hungarian voters that the Hungarian Parliament, which has a relatively bad reputation in terms of cooperation and finding national minimums or national consensus, can agree on something and act together. This is certainly a positive message to the Hungarian voters in general. This is also important, perhaps because there have been opinions in the press that have been saying that, in fact, there is no problem at all, that there is this educational law, because the biggest problem is that Hungarian children do not know Ukrainian in Ukraine, and we should really be glad that there is this law, because it will greatly increase the level playing field and competitiveness of the Ukrainian education system and the labour market for young Hungarians if they learn Ukrainian with honor. I wouldn't put it too far aside from the fact that perhaps it is an inadvertent suggestion from those who put it this way, as it is interesting that there were opinions about the totality of everyone here in Parliament - sorry to be so drastic - because this Ukrainian educational law is not so bad, because it is not what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all the parliamentary parties and the representatives of Hungarians across the border are talking about. We will probably be able to judge this more from here than those who are affected by it in Transcarpathia and Ukraine. That is why I say that there is also value in domestic policy that there is a parliamentary consensus in this. And it goes without saying that outwardly there is a benefit and value to this co-thinking or joint action, because then both diplomacy and anyone else who wants to act proactively can begin this work on the basis of stronger mandate, stronger legitimacy and stronger basis. Once again, I said at the committee meeting that there is sometimes a point in repeating in politics. We, too, consider this to be a national issue, and so we stand on this issue. We think that only joint action can bring results in this, and perhaps there are little results, which Mr Secretary of State has just reported at the committee meeting. We hope that this joint action might change Ukrainian decision-makers. It is true that there is a long way to go here, and there is indeed much to criticize diplomacy, there is much to criticize foreign policy decisions, but I would like to put that aside now, because it is not now time for criticism, but when we have solved the problem, it is possible to analyse and talk about how the next - don't give - can act more carefully and avoid these unpleasant, tragic situations. Let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to one thing here, also in the public presence of Parliament. It was unfortunate that when opposition parties organised a joint protest, otherwise positively in favour of this case, then Fidesz's communication began to shout at the time that the Soros tenants called a demonstration I don't know what. With due respect, I would like to suggest that there are plenty of other areas where we can be hired by Soros, this area should stay out of this, because then we can maintain this agreement 100% and thus serve the interests of the Hungarian community across the border better. For my part, I have made the suggestion in the discussion that the government's proactivity is correct, but this must be complemented by the means of parliamentary diplomacy. We have to be active, too. Zsolt Németh has also taken a number of steps in this, which he has just reported, and I have tried to contribute in some way with my own instruments, but it is a fact and a fact that Hungarian joint action is correct and justified both in the Council of Europe and in the OSCE, both in the European Union and in NATO, and we must do so in the coming weeks. There will be opportunities, since soon the Council of Europe will meet, in Bucharest the NATO General Assembly will be held, in Hungarian, there are a number of times where we will also be able to consult the leaders of the countries concerned, such as Romania, or even the Greeks, the Poles on these issues. What I have asked the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for which we have received a reassuring answer, is that the information and transparency of the process is now of paramount importance, because it is good that all the parties involved who want to do so know where we stand, what the most recent events or results are, so we can certainly help the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, not by hindering each other, but by supporting and helping each other. I would like to conclude with what I started to say, namely: more such moments would be needed in foreign policy or even on a number of other issues in Parliament. But until this moment comes, let us be glad that every political party really treats this issue as a national matter, and has committed 100% to putting its own political or campaign interests in the background in order to be able to act effectively together in order to resolve this conflict in a satisfactory way. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-09-18-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Szávay, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, let me put some things right about what's been said. I wouldn't wish to be a buzzkill, but let's clarify a few points. First, two brief responses to Congressman Mesterházy. I believe that the establishment of a consensus on national policy over the last few years has in most cases not been done by the opposition. While I welcome this and think it is important - and thank you, Mr Németh, for bringing this proposal here - it does indeed have some deceit when you or your fellow Members are talking about how important it is that this great consensus on national policy remains. In particular, it has not been up to us over the last few years, and it has often been government practice that you have told us and decided what is in the nation's best interests, and then if there is something we disagreed with, then it was us who broke the consensus on national policy. Let us see if, in the coming months, there is indeed an intention that we may be able to put such a serious unity behind other equally important matters. The other - I regret that you are going out, Mr Mesterházy - but to be clear, we are also pleased that there is no reference to different geopolitical issues in this proposal, although Congressman Németh could not bear not to bring this here in his expo for a few minutes. By the way, my colleague from Gyöngyösi responded to this, which is what I would like to say to you, Congressman. Therefore, we consider the proposal itself to be good and sufficiently strong in its wording, and I would like to make that clear. I am all the more pleased to talk about this because it has been relatively rarely given to me in recent years, so that I can say in similar proposals that we regard it as a strong and firm text. However, two things should be added. There's one thing that's missing. What if we don't take this proposal any further? We asked for and suggested that, if Minister for Foreign Affairs had actually made a very strong statement on this issue, and even suggested that Hungarian diplomacy should not support any of the efforts of Ukraine in any forums, then it might have been worth pointing out in this proposal that if President Porosenko did sign this proposal and this law came into force, then what steps Hungary would have taken. For example, Parliament could have asked the government to publish at the level of such a document that Hungary would not support further steps towards EU integration in Ukraine until then. This has not been accepted by you, my fellow Members, but of course we did not want to be tied to this proposal, but we do have a lack of feeling about this, and I must say this. [[19.50]] After caressing each other's shoulders and enjoying the great consensus and unity of national politics, let's go back a little bit in time and see what has happened over the past year. 'Cause we've got some very serious reviews here. We are very tough now, and the foreign minister is now taking a very clear position, and we are even taking action against Ukraine, and we are showing off our strength a little bit. We're yelling when the house is on fire. I'm just not sure we should have gotten this far. Last October, the Ukrainian Parliament discussed this proposal at first reading, over the last year, we see, and here I have to agree with my fellow Member István Ikotity, Mr Hungarian State Secretary, Hungarian diplomacy has far from done everything in order to avoid getting this far. You are moving forward with the foreign policy that, by the way, marked János Martonyi and, before that, László Kovács on this issue. They're constantly operating on one-sided, pre-emptive gestures because they think we're gonna get this back someday. We're not getting it back. We never got it back from the Romanians, we never got it back from the Slovaks, and we never get it back from the Ukrainians. Until a few days ago, you were of the opinion that Hungary should not put any obstacles to the further integration of Serbia or Ukraine into the EU in the interests of the Hungarian community. In recent weeks, there would have been a number of such occasions, whether the Ukrainian visa waiver or the vote on the Association Agreement. At the latest in these situations, a clear position and clear conditions should have been laid down. We are not the enemies of Ukraine, and I agree with Mr Németh that this is a self-destructive thing. Ukraine believes that it will raise itself, its own nation, with this law, but in fact it will harm itself the most. We agree with that, and we would like to express our hope that President Porosenko will back down on this issue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-243	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The law on education recently adopted by the Ukrainian Supreme Council, the Verhovna Rada, is a blatant violation because Article 7 of the Act limits the right of national minorities to learn in their mother tongue. Article 7 limits the education of national minorities in their mother tongue to the level of secondary and primary schools, but makes Ukrainian the language of secondary and higher education the only language left. The Education Act therefore ignores Ukraine's constitution and international commitments, depriveing its national minorities of the right to learn in their mother tongue, which is a serious step backwards to its existing legislation. The Christian Democrats therefore call on President Petrov Porosenko, from the Hungarian Parliament, not to sign the Education Act, which is discriminatory and contrary to European and international legal standards. We also consider it important to stress that the new Education Act could adversely affect the stability of Ukraine. If Ukraine becomes unstable, then its European integration perspective will also be called into question. Thank you very much for your attention. And before I sit down, I would like to make so many comments that I would like to give the rest of my time to Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Please refer the time frame to the Fidesz time frame. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Potápi, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-18-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, we thank KDNP for the time frame increase. Allow me, on behalf of the Secretary of State for National Policy of the Prime Minister's Office, to welcome the parliamentary resolution and, of course, to welcome the five-party cooperation. There are few such examples in the history of the Hungarian Parliament. I would ask you not to spoil this alliance in this debate. I would like to respond to Mr Szávay in so far as we have raised our voice on every possible forum in the last year against the amendment of the future education law. This is where we are, but for the record, let me tell you this. We were among the first to support the independent Ukraine in 1991 and afterwards, and we have always supported Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic accession everywhere. We also assured those who fought on Maidan of our political support. We can practically say that in recent years we have launched countless programmes to support Hungarians living in Transcarpathia, renovating schools, kindergartens, social institutions, hospitals and churches. When aid was sent out by local governments, NGOs, aid organisations or even the government, we did not see that Ukrainians, who are Hungarians, could receive all of these aids. We have launched countless programmes in recent years, there is virtually no social layer that the Hungarian government will not support in some way. Whether they are ecclesiastical persons, workers, teachers, health workers, journalists or students, everyone receives a payment supplement or support from the Hungarian government. I think that in recent years the Hungarian government has done everything in its power to ensure that Hungarians, the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, can thrive in their homeland. This has, of course, been accompanied by a large-scale economic programme, supported and coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We also created a consensus between the Hungarian parties, and the border regions and counties also support the Transcarpathian County. I think that in recent years, we have done everything in our power to ensure that Hungarians there remain, and, of course, in the next period, we will fully support the Hungarians of Transcarpathia. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Victor Vinnai, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me continue what Árpád Potápi started, as a representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, and as president of the Hungarian-Ukrainian Friendship Department of the IPU. Hungarian diplomacy has done everything, not only in government but also in parliamentary relations. I would like to remind you of a moment when the Ukrainian Prime Minister was here in November 2015 and before that the Hungarian-Ukrainian friendly department held a meeting in Beregszász, and we made it clear that we support Ukraine's visa waiver, border relations and EU relations in the event that all the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians remain, the use of mother tongue, the right to education, the right of civil society organisations and the strengthening of border relations. I would like to say one more sentence, because, in fact, in relations, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg's relationship with neighbouring Transcarpathia County is so strong that last Thursday the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County General Assembly adopted a decision, a municipal decision expressing its concern and shock over the Ukrainian educational law. We, who live nearby, will strongly support this and welcome the cooperation of the five-party. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-18-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a Member of Parliament where 20 out of 88 settlements have administrative borders with Transcarpathia, so one quarter of my region is bordering with Transcarpathia. We live next door, we know exactly the problem. I am sad that there is also an internal political dimension to the debate on the part of the opposition parties. Let us restore national politics, the better position, to why the people of Transcarpathia still sympathize with us, not with Jobbik. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: How do you know that?]] It's a very high proportion. [[20.00]] With regard to the LMP, I would like to say that Tamás Meszerics has finally been to a KMKZZ Congress, so far we have not seen him, he has come and said that - I quote literally - this Ukraine can be expected to be really generous, which is why I am working in the European Union. So while we were being attacked here by Congressman Ikotity to isolate himself on the international stage by the government, and they are doing their best, then the occupation or work for generosity on the LMP's part of the European front has failed. We do say it at every forum, and I myself, say, at the Baltic Council's international forum, that Hungary considers what the Ukrainians are doing about the Education Act unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you if there's anyone else who wants to speak by faction on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The united debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. Mr. President, please.
u2017-09-18-251	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I am very pleased with this debate. I would like to thank everyone for their contribution and for the positive position of all parties. We also need to learn what it's like to agree on something. And I see it's like this when we agree on something. Everyone will now read the minutes from this point of view. That's the consensus, although there were obviously differences in emphasis, but I think that's why all the factions have calmed down. And as many people have said here, the value of this consensus is first of all very important inwards, and I think that it needs to feel that we are a nation and that we are able to agree on certain issues. It is very important for international public opinion, because it weakens our international efforts to say clearly and clearly that black is black, white is white, but we ourselves make our own things incomprehensible and incomprehensible. However, if we give this educational law a common interpretation now, because there will be debates about what is in it, I think that we will also strengthen the Hungarian position very much outwards. But perhaps the most important thing is that for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, as the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente said, we must show that the more difficult they are, the more they can lean on the mother country. That wording, I think, was a direct hit by the Secretary of State. The Hungarians in Transcarpathia are in a really difficult situation now, because in the last 28 years they have heroically kept an institution system alive, extended an institutional system, changed windows, and trained teachers. They made a fantastic effort in this area, and from one moment to the next, they see the work that they have done collapse as a house of cards. I think it is very important that they feel that this will not be the case, that Hungary will stand by them, and that we will find a way that, if anything happens, Congressman Szávay, whatever happens, whatever happens, the Hungarian education system in Transcarpathia will be maintained, and Hungary will help this institutional system to continue to function. This is what Hungarians in Transcarpathia need, and to say this unanimously, I think that is very important. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann said that it is not a question of international law, it is not even a question of constitutional and internal law, but, above all, a question of pedagogy, and moreover, the most fundamental question of human existence, so that I can learn to think about the language I was born on. I would like to thank you once again for the debate, thank you very much for your attention, and I hope that, in the coming period, everyone will find a way to achieve the best possible solution in this education law, through their own relations, through political families, through international organisations, where they are. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-252	Thank you very much, Mr President, and also thank you to my fellow Members for this uplifting debate in this House. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of a list of amendments to the Convention between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Estonia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the area of income and property taxation, signed in Budapest on 11 September 2002 until closure follows. The government referral is T/17300. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-09-18-253	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Protocol to the Tax Convention currently applicable between Hungary and the Republic of Estonia contains a specific type of income, a provision concerning the taxation of royalties, in which the Estonian Contracting Party undertakes that if it enters into an agreement with another State with a content more favourable than the provisions of the Hungarian-Észt tax Convention, it will also provide this to Hungary. In the tax convention, this is the clause on the so-called most favourable treatment. Under the clause, therefore, if Estonia enters into an agreement with any EEA State with a more favourable content in terms of the definition of royalties or the level of withholding tax, the provision will automatically become applicable in the Hungarian-Nest Tax Convention. Estonia has concluded a more favourable tax agreement with the Swiss Confederation, so the Hungarian-Nest Tax Convention is amended accordingly, on which the Republic of Estonia has sent a unilateral list to Hungary. Similarly, Estonia's tax convention is amended with Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. As a result of the amendment favourable to Hungary, no withholding tax of 5% or 10% under the Hungarian-Észt tax convention is applicable in respect of royalties, the royalty is taxable only in the State of residence of the beneficial owner, and the concept of royalty has become narrower. Given that, on the basis of the content of the Estonian list, the Hungarian-Ést tax convention is amended, it is necessary to publish the unilateral sub-list by law from a Hungarian legislative point of view. Dear Parliament, Please support and accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-09-18-255	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal is fully in line with the Hungarian national economic interests, and the MSZP faction will therefore support this publication. We would like to see the situation of the Hungarian embassy in Tallinn resolved equally smoothly, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has promised for many years to make progress in this too. I know that this is not the portfolio of the Secretary of State, but I have only noted it for the record, because I have been in intensive correspondence with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for two years now, so every time Estonia comes up, I have to bring this up. Mr President, thank you for understanding.
u2017-09-18-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. [[20.10]]
u2017-09-18-257	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian Democrats also support the bill. I do not wish to repeat what Mr András Tállai said, but the point is that, as far as the agreement with Estonia is concerned, the Estonians have also concluded a treaty with Switzerland, which is more favourable than the agreement with us, and we have received a list from the Estonians, based on which we will also be subject to more favourable conditions in the field of taxation in the future. Thank you for your attention and, once again, for your support.
u2017-09-18-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the publication of the Protocol amending the Agreement on Air Transport between Canada and the European Community and its Member States to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will follow. The government referral is T/17306. can be accessed on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-09-18-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to declare a protocol amending the aviation agreement between the EU and its Member States and Canada in the light of Croatia's accession to the EU. Croatia undertook to accede to agreements concluded by the Member States and the European Union with third countries on its entry into the European Union. These accessions shall take place by the conclusion of a protocol under a simplified procedure. The Agreement on Air Transport between Canada and the European Community and its Member States shall be concluded by Croatia with the Protocol signed on 27 January 2017. The Protocol contains a provision on the authenticity of the Croatian text of the Treaty and provisions on the approval, entry into force and provisional application of the Protocol. The Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada was signed on 17 December 2009. The Agreement is drawn up in accordance with Article XIX of 2010 on the publication of an Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. It's been declared by Law No. Since the Protocol forms an integral part of the Agreement, the Protocol should be published in law under the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is, on the basis of what has been said, to publish the minutes by law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has consistently supported Croatia's European integration efforts, whatever government was in power in Hungary, so, of course, the further process that completes this integration must be fully supported. This present proposal, which Mr Secretary of State has spoken about, serves this purpose, so the MSZP faction naturally supports it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-18-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A process has started decades ago in Hungary, with the aim of establishing an agreement on air transport with as many countries as possible, with all the Member States of the European Union concluding such an agreement. We are now concluding these agreements at European Union level. This is part of what we are discussing today. This is important because on 17 December 2009 the European Union signed an agreement with Canada on air traffic. I think this is very important, and I do not understand why it was so late, although it was probably a precedent, because I think Canada is a very important country for Hungary, and it is a very important country for the European Union, because it has a very strong economy. The second largest country in the world, by the way, is expanding, it is no coincidence that it is bordered by three oceans, the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, and the Arctic Ocean from the north, with 35 million inhabitants. Compared to the area of 10 million square kilometres, its population is very small, with a population density of 3.2 people per square kilometer, but with a GDP per capita of 45,000 US dollars. So I think it's a very good song. It is highly industrialized, its economy is very advanced, it is not a coincidence that it is also a member of the G8 and a member of the G20. It should be noted that in the field of energy, it is a fully independent state, a self-sufficient state. A Federation of ten provinces, three territories. He was a colony for a long time, and he was dependent. Originally, the French began to colonize it in the 1700s, then the British colonized it and then tried to break away from the British. This was also the result of the 1931 Westminster Statute, which brought almost complete independence to Canada, which eventually appeared in writing, legally, with each act, the Canada Act 1982, which ended even the remaining apparent dependence. Although the head of state is II. Queen Elizabeth, but there is a constitutional monarchy, parliamentary democracy in this country. I'd like to tell you more about Canada, it's interesting, and I didn't know it either, just now that I've looked into what it means to Canada. A name for the natives, the Iroquois, the Iroquois Indians, a village, a settlement, and when the first colonists arrived and created their first settlements, the Iroquois called it Canada, and this is how the name Canada took hold of why it became Canada. So such a country, which is so industrially advanced, is obviously important to have air transport agreements. Thus, the European Union has established, including Hungary. Obviously, when Croatia joined the European Union, during the accession procedure, it undertook to sign all international treaties, to join these international treaties, and to become a member of these international treaties, just like the other EU countries, which had already been a member of the European Union and had concluded these treaties before. Obviously, this must be approved at a legal level, and the Jobbik faction obviously supports it in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group.
u2017-09-18-265	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is necessary to complement the aviation agreement between Canada and the European Community and its Member States on the subject side, taking into account the fact that Croatia was not a part of the 27 Member States at that time. The Christian Democrats therefore support the publication of the protocol on amendment by law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The Strasbourg Convention on the Limitation of Liability in Inland Navigation follows a series of steps. a general debate on the draft law on its publication until its conclusion. Government referral T/17308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-09-18-267	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill, which provides for the publication of the Strasbourg Convention on the limitation of liability in inland waterway transport, is to incorporate the Convention into the Hungarian legal order. In this case, too, there is a need for legal publication on the basis of the legislation on procedures for international treaties. The aim of the Convention is to impose on undertakings currently having unlimited liability in the inland waterway sector such a high but foreseeable level of liability that creates a realistic risk for insurers and leads to a reduction in insurance premiums. However, in the light of the specific damage event, the undertaking may choose a different solution instead of applying this part of the Convention, if it is more favourable to it. There is currently no specialized regulation for liability insurance in Hungary within the inland waterway sector. This undisputed deficiency limits the competitiveness of the operators in the sector, because in the event of damage to the service provider in the internal market, very high compensations can be expected. Limiting the compensation provided for in the Convention is a protection for entrepreneurs and for victims thanks to sufficiently high limits. [[20.20]] Failure to accede to the Convention would be detrimental to Hungary. In a unified international system that creates a regulated legal environment, signatory countries, including major Danube states, will be integrated. Without accession, domestic carriers would be at a competitive disadvantage, insurance companies' willingness to provide cover would be limited and victims would not be entitled to adequate compensation. The provisions of the Water Transport Act concerning insurance are currently not in force and should be provided for by a separate law. As a result, the liability insurance obligation of an operator of inland floating facilities is not currently regulated by specialised legislation and is subject to the general liability insurance rules of civil law. This problem is settled by the Convention and, therefore, the sections referred to in the Water Transport Act need to be put into effect at the same time as the Convention. The Convention has so far been ratified by Luxembourg and Serbia. The Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of one year following the date on which the instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession has been deposited by four States or on the date on which the predecessor of the present Convention is repealed. On this basis, I would ask the Honourable Parliament, in addition to considering what has been said, that T/17308 should be considered. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-268	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-18-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us on the publication of the Strasbourg Convention on the limitation of liability in inland waterway transport is a proposal which, both in terms of legal and legal history and, I believe, is an extremely important treaty from an economic point of view. I merely mention one interesting thing, despite the late hour, about what this convention is about. This is a multilateral agreement that was concluded not under the auspices of major international organisations known to many, such as the United Nations or the Council of Europe, but by the Central Navigation Commission on the Rhine, which is one of the most apathetic European professional organisations, the establishment of which was provided for in the Final Act of the Vienna Congress of 1815. Moreover, the Mannheim Convention of 1868 governing the shipping of Rhine acknowledged the existence of this, the role of which, I am sorry, even the creation and development of the European Union could not influence. Ladies and gentlemen, The convention before us regards the London Convention on the limitation of liability in relation to maritime claims as a model. Thus, the generally accepted purpose of such liability limitation documents is to allow ship owners and their contributors to limit their liability by setting up a so-called limitation fund, the amount of which is thus determined by the document in question. The amount of the limitation fund is high, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the compensation to be paid is limited only in the case of large-scale damage. So, in this way, the conventional mechanisms can create the possibility of making the level of liability more predictable and making it even easier for the insurance market to secure insurance without imposing an excessive burden on the companies concerned. So I believe that the benefits of this legal arrangement are easy to see, and freight transport, as well as the costs of river passenger transport, can be reduced if insurance companies do not calculate the risks of shipping through the exclusive application of normal liability insurance rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this convention can be a major step forward in terms of inland waterway transport in general. We know that inland waterway transport is facing a lot of difficulties and challenges today. The market requires ever deeper, more watertight vessels and barges, and we also know that this requires adequate water depth, which, for example, requires considerable investment in the management of floods. Unfortunately, we cannot change this overnight, which is why I believe that everything needs to be taken in order for inland waterway transport to grow somewhat in Hungary. This convention, I believe, contributes to this. Ladies and gentlemen, As inland waterway transport is one of the cleanest, environmentally friendly modes of transport, I believe that this is why it is worth developing in the future. Along the Danube is an international cruise from Tisza to Tokaj. As long as ships with a capacity of about 4,500 tons can run on the Danube, for example, the limit is only a thousand tons in terms of the quantity of goods that can be transported in my narrower Patria, the Tisza and its largest tributary, Bodrog. I would also like to mention the problem of ports. The Tisza can only take account of the loader in Szeged as a major port, so basically, freight shipping in Tisza is largely due to the regulation of the river and the work on coast protection. In the latter, a TOP application was submitted with the cooperation of the Tisza municipalities, and hopefully this will also help with shipping next year. We can see, therefore, that there is a great deal to be done to boost inland waterway transport, but the least we can do in our present situation is to ease the burden on stakeholders in the context of the limitation of liability, allowing them to make further progress. Finally, the adoption of the Convention, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is also a substitute for the fact that there is currently no specialised regulation on liability insurance in Hungary within the inland waterway sector. By limiting the compensations provided for in the Convention, protection may be granted to both entrepreneurs and victims. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, this is a convention, and we are in favour of a convention that removes an invisible obstacle for stakeholders in inland navigation, so I ask my fellow Members to support the publication of the convention. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-09-18-271	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hörcsik has formulated and summarised the substance and usefulness of this proposal in such detail and accuracy that there is nothing to add to this. I would simply like to say that the MSZP fraction supports this.
u2017-09-18-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-273	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Not to reiterate what the Secretary of State Róbert Homolya and my fellow Member Richárd Hörcsik have already said, but I think it is necessary to stress that, while maritime shipping has an agreement on a limitation of liability, all this has not been in inland navigation until the Strasbourg Convention. [[20.30]] This is in order for Hungary to have such a strategic interest, so the Christian Democrats support this bill, which is T/17308. in front of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-09-18-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply agree with what has been said by the Secretary of State and my fellow Members before me, so the Jobbik Group will also support this bill. However, at the time of the debate on draft legislation on inland waterway transport, it is important to mention a few things that, in my view, are of cardinal importance to the Hungarian national economy. My fellow Member also noted that, if we look at Hungary, we can indeed see serious shortcomings in river freight transport, and it can also be added that in terms of water use and water regulation. What do I mean? A total of about 8 million tonnes of goods to be transported at the annual level are transported only by river shipping in Hungary, and this is only 3 percent of the total volume, which is very small, especially if we add as a benchmark, say, the 32 percent share in the Netherlands or the far above 10 percent in Germany. But even if we look at Romania or Serbia, it must also be said that Hungary is facing a serious setback in this area. This is also the case with regard to water use, as about 12,000 cubic metres of water per person per year flows through Hungary, and only 5 percent of it is used by Hungary on an annual basis, i.e. about 600 cubic metres per year. That's very little. Therefore, it is not admirable that I do that, the Danube-Tisza, the sandback is deserted. We should do something about that too. But we can also examine that the thousand megawatts of electricity that our rivers would represent are only 50 megawatts exploited. We know very well that this is a politically sensitive area, a very sensitive, sensitive topic when you talk about it, because to date, this area is dominated by rather dark green taboos, but we say that these taboos need to be broken down, or at least they need to be talked about, and we need to have a professional and social debate on these issues, because this is the only way for Hungary's economy to develop. This way, we can also answer questions about how Hungary can happen that only 2 percent of our production areas are watered, as opposed to more than 20 percent in France. I think it's a sin, it's definitely a mistake, it's definitely a deficiency that we should do something about. However, there are also all kinds of transport policy arguments that inland waterway transport, river freight, should be improved, as economic reasons are also the same. In particular, one-eighth is the cost of transporting a unit of goods in inland waters, unlike the road. And if environmental reasons are included, then it should be said that, in the case of river transport, so-called negative externalities, they represent only one-seventeenth of road transport. It is quite obvious that the emission of pollutants is also much lower in this form. That is why Jobbik says that there should be a paradigm shift and that this 3 percent share should definitely be increased. In addition, there are European Union appropriations for the first round, say, in the case of more than 300 kilometres of distillation by 2030, and then for 2050, and for internal water, 30 percent and then 50 percent of the total quantity of goods will have to be delivered. This is also fully in line with Hungarian national interests. We can also count on the economic argument that it would be very important to estimate this mode of transport in an energy-dependent country such as Hungary in this period of energy scarcity, and therefore Jobbik supports this bill, we can support any such bill, because in order for such a rather gloomy picture to move in a positive direction, we need such good laws, otherwise port development, river fleet development. I add, yes, we know that in recent years more than HUF 50 billion has been invested in this regard. We can also support these, if these are done in a transparent, transparent way and do not increase the pockets of one of the friends' oligarchs, they will not continue to enrich it. In addition, maintenance would also be very necessary. And here's the biggest deficiency we've ever encountered. Every year there are such shameful and inexplicable cases that hundreds of barges or ships are waiting in Hungary due to bottlenecks, the water level is falling so low, which threatens shipping and, occasionally, makes it impossible, which causes serious damage to the national economy. That is why we support the proposal and the suggestion of the Association of Hungarian Logistics Services Centres that the Danube can be sailed in Hungary for 340 days. To this end, it would be necessary to do everything; maintenance would otherwise be the most serious and Cardinal thing here, even if, if it were the case, it would knock down environmental taboos or dogmas that were badly boned here in Hungary. And I would like to add very quickly here that 38 water escapes or hydroelectric power plants have been built on the Danube, from a more western point of view, say, Austria or Germany, and these states are not at all environmentally termed some kind of lute state that would be treating the natural environment more slowly. We believe, let us say, that national and social interests are indeed compatible with environmental aspects. We also have a very good example of this here in Hungary, Lake Tisza, which is an ecological miracle, a wonderful tourist paradise, besides producing electricity with the water that has expanded there. More emphasis should therefore be placed on these issues. Especially if we look at the inexorable damage caused by heavy goods vehicles of international transit traffic flowing through Hungary every year. According to a study by the Air Task Force a few years ago, the annual damage of heavy goods vehicles in Hungary is clearly unintended, but tangible, and costing Hungarian taxpayers serious money, as well as other negative externalities produce an annual expenditure of around HUF 900 billion, and international transit traffic is responsible for 40 percent of it. My fellow Members here in the pro-government benches! This is when we should consider what other opportunities are in your hands, and then we hope that from 2018 the establishment of the Jobbik government, which would force this transit traffic in Hungary to take advantage of the waterways, to use them, to save the Hungarian taxpayers ten billion forints or, where appropriate, hundreds of billion forints. There was talk of sailing in Tisza. It should be mentioned, however, that there are more than 30 thousand kilometres of inland waterways within Europe, of which a total of approximately 1,400 to 1,500 kilometres falls on Hungary, and their utilisation, as I outlined earlier, is very, very below the capacity that these waterways would otherwise have. [[20.40]] No wonder, it was said here that the Tisza paper form can sail to Tokaj, but everyone knows that the water level of 1.2 meters in summer does not allow this to happen in practice. To do this, additional works of art should also be built on the Tisza, as I have already mentioned with regard to the Danube. Without this, talking about the recovery of inland waterway transport, its beneficial impact on the national economy will remain an illusion. It is just as interesting or illusion as, let us say, to mention that the most important inland waterway route in Europe, the Danube-Majna-Rain channel, which stretches from Rotterdam in the North Sea to Szulina in the Black Sea, is the geographical centre of this shipping route in Hungary, and the problem is that it is only a geographical centre, we have not become a logistics centre and therefore have not become an economic and commercial centre because of the shortcomings that I have been talking about for 11 minutes now. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, These things should be improved, and then perhaps the beautiful words outlined by my fellow members of the Government on inland navigation in Hungary and its future would indeed become a tangible reality. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2017-09-18-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether they want to continue to take this opportunity in the framework of their speeches. Would anyone like to speak? [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to react now. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol amending the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until closure. The government referral is T/17309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-09-18-277	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish a protocol amending the aviation agreement between the EU and its Member States and Israel in the light of Croatia's accession to the EU. Croatia undertook to accede to agreements concluded by the Member States and the European Union with third countries on its entry into the European Union. These accessions shall take place by the conclusion of a protocol under a simplified procedure. Croatia shall accede to the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, by a Protocol signed on 19 February 2015. The Protocol contains a provision on the authenticity of the Croatian text of the Agreement and provisions on the approval, entry into force and provisional application of the Protocol. The Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Israel was signed in Luxembourg on 10 June 2013. The Agreement is concluded on behalf of the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, on the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. Since the Protocol forms an integral part of the Agreement, the Protocol should be published in law under the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is, as has been said, the publication of the minutes by law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-278	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, on behalf of the MSZP Group.
u2017-09-18-279	Thank you very much. Mr President, The MSZP Group has supported the adoption of a law on the publication of a Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, on 30 September 2013, so that this agreement served our national interests, which is why this amendment is also in the service of our own interests. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-18-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-09-18-281	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, which was concluded in the summer of 2013, needs to be extended from the subject side of the Contracting Parties, taking into account the fact that Croatia was not yet one of the EU Member States at the time. Therefore, KDNP supports the publication of the protocol on amendment by law, as we all know, it is a well-known fact that Croatia has joined the Union in the meantime. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, a subject such as two previous topics, the Air Agreement between Canada and Croatia, and the European Union, will be included in this picture. This is also an agreement that the European Union has already concluded with the State of Israel under a Euro-Mediterranean air transport agreement. Indeed, if we look at the dates here, we see the interesting fact that they were signed on 10 June 2013 and Croatia joined the European Union on 1 July 2013, so it was a tough 20 days before the Republic of Croatia could participate in this in its own right. However, these 20 days have not yet been completed, so that the signing of this Protocol and the adoption by countries of this Protocol are an obligation of European Union law and, therefore, in this respect, it is clear that this Protocol between Croatia and Israel should be ratified by the Member States. That is why it is necessary to sign this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on behalf of the factions on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code is the consolidated debate on the proposal to increase the limitation period for corruption offences. Presentation submitted by István Apáti, Gábor Staudt, Gábor Vona and György Szilágyi, Jobbik, Members T/17383. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that a total of 25 minutes, 5 minutes, 6 minutes, 10 to 10 minutes, 3 minutes for the speech of the representatives of the government are available for the opening and closing of the House rules adopted, and 6 minutes for the speech of the Legislative Committee, 10 to 10 minutes, and 3 minutes for the speech of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[20.50]]
u2017-09-18-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Frankly, I did not expect this proposal to be on the agenda today, when my fellow Members and I tabled it this morning and then proposed immediately to allow Parliament to discuss this proposal today, with a derogation from the house rules. But now it seems that tomorrow around noon the Parliament can vote on this. Its background must be said that this proposal was also likely to come before the Parliament because it responds to the referendum initiative that was presented under the leadership of our former fellow Member, Gábor Vágó. Miraculously, this referendum issue has been able to overcome the very rough path to referendum questions. This in itself would be worth a Mass, why it is so difficult to initiate a referendum in Hungary today, and what is so special about it, if a referendum question can reach the point of collecting signatures by exhausting all remedies. This referendum issue concerned whether people wanted to increase the limitation period for corruption crimes to 12 years. It's the Btk at the moment. CHAPTER XXVII In Chapter I of the Annex to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Chapter III of the Treaty on the Functioning When it seemed that this issue might already be in the process of collecting signatures, we could read a statement from the future or elected Fidesz fraction leader Gergely Gulyás that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP would actually support a similar proposal if someone presented it. Well, we couldn't take this opportunity, and we decided to submit it today. In its wording itself, we are talking about a very simple proposal. The proposal before us is that the Btk. in the general part of the statute of limitations, include an additional paragraph concerning the inclusion of Article XXVII. In the case of corruption offences in Chapter III, the limitation period shall be 12 years. Technically, that would apply to all corruption crimes. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Of course, there will be crimes where this means a very significant limitation obligation, say, from 3 years to 12 years, this is obvious, and there will be cases where the rule is only slightly aggravated or the limitation period is only slightly delayed. Obviously, this is possible for large amounts, or even in criminal organisations, or constantly, so for several crimes committed in succession, the limitation period may only be slightly delayed, but the point is that it will be tightened up in any case if it can be accepted. It is also obvious, and let us not be naive, that the Fidesz-KDNP majority can be guided by the intention of being allowed to come before the Parliament to avoid a referendum, and I would like to avoid that the referendum or the referendum campaign can be used, in addition to excessive resources, for a kind of mood against Fidesz or against the government. But obviously this is already a policy in that, when we look at the issue before us, it seems that, in the event of acceptance, the majority of the parties or parties in Parliament would agree that, indeed, people would probably have decided in this referendum that they would want to tighten the statute of limitations on corruption crimes. I am sure, by the way, that not only in the limitation of corruption offences, but also in the persecution of corruption crimes, citizens would like to see a stricter Btk. and a more effective justice system. This also brings us to the area that we are obviously not yet able to stop here, which in itself can be justified by the fact that this amendment to the Btk. can be accepted in the light of a particular circumstance. In the same way as the violence in relations could have entered the law after a misworded statement by a fellow Member of the Fidesz, and obviously there was not much chance of doing so before, in this case also the external circumstances, the external pressure, led to the adoption of this. But I would warn the government and the Fidesz-KDNP majority to interpret it as an end to the desire of the people and the opposition, or it is satisfied with the amendments to the Btk., in the direction that they want to live in a country where corruption trends are decreasing and not increasing. By the way, I would like to add that today, in the Justice Committee, an equally important proposal has been voted off without a word. There, too, we have proposed criminal offences of similar corruption and other criminal offences committed by public actors and the definition of a specific case as a classified case. It would have been a classified case for certain offences if it had been committed using a public figure, a public official or a public mandate. But back to the present proposal, it can be said that it is a joy that if something happens, and perhaps the majority of Parliament can realize it, or begin to realize that it is necessary to do so in this area. I must say that this is a good step, but, of course, as I said, the final step is certainly not enough. Nevertheless, I ask for the support of the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, and I also ask that we do not stop halfway, so that similar restrictions can also be brought before the Parliament. It would be best, by the way, if this was presented by pro-government representatives. Believe me, we would be very happy to support further tightening up in other areas. I think it is in the interests of all of us to have less corruption in Hungary and less public money disappearing. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-18-286	Thank you very much. Again, I would like to thank my fellow Members and thank Gábor Staudt for his speech as rapporteur. I would like to inform you that from the 25-minute time frame, you have spent 7 minutes and 20 seconds, so you will have plenty of time to close. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to. Now the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented within a six-minute time frame, because only a majority opinion will be published. I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-09-18-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Today, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal in question and voted in full unanimous favour of it and presented it to Parliament with a single proposal. I would like to say so much about the committee meeting that the committee has dealt with the amendment tabled by Mr Szabolcs Szabó. However, this amendment was partly found by the committee to be against house rules, one point was over-extensive compared to the original bill, and in part it did not find it technically appropriate for those amendments to be incorporated into the text of the law. Therefore, the Committee rejected, without voting against, the amendments made by Mr Szabó Szabolcs. I would like to address the merits of the bill in a speech. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-18-288	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The factions have 10-10 minutes, and independent representatives, if they make use of the option, have a total of 3 minutes. First from the Jobbik Group Staudt Gábor... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Csaba Gyure! There must have been some mistake, Mr. President.]] All I can do is work with the materials, and I have Gábor Staudt. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Can you tell by pressing buttons? Because Csaba Gyüre will speak to us!]] Then I'll take you through, Congressman Csaba Gyure. It seems that Gábor Staudt, the author, appeared twice. So I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre. I'll wait, feel free. It's not your fault that the script contains something else. We'll wait for you to put the microphone on. There you go. They're setting it to zero. You have the floor. [[21.00]]
u2017-09-18-289	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We ran into this topic very quickly at today's meeting, but I think it is not in vain, and we have come to a very important topic. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been a party of the Order ever since it became a member of the Parliament in 2010. It is a fundamental condition of order in a country to have public security, and it is also part of public security to reduce corruption crimes. We can also see if we look at the past period, about the period since the change of government in 2010, that Hungary's situation on the global corruption ranking has fallen to a terrible extent. Today, there are only three Member States in the European Union that are behind us on the world list of corruption, Romania, Bulgaria, and I am sorry, but we are ahead of everyone. It follows that Hungary and the legislators are also obliged to tighten up in this area. Although opponents often argue with each other that it will not be the tightening up of the penalty or the more severe penalty that deters the perpetrator, it is indeed necessary that, in such a case, if corruption crimes multiply, the penalty can be tightened up, or a very good solution, which was given by the representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and this would be an extension of the limitation period much longer than the law requires. Why is this so important? What we see is that, in general, we are talking about bribery in these crimes, the active passive method of this, the active passive method of official bribery, and then the acquisition of influence, the other bribery, so there are quite a number of areas where this new legislation should be applied. What we see in this area is who can do this: primarily people working in offices who decide on a right or apply a right that is an advantage to someone else. It can be political, it can be official. In the event that politics interferes with punishment, not with punishment, but with the prosecution itself, so if it does not prosecute someone, then indeed - we have said this many times - it is not possible to hold him accountable. In many cases, it is necessary that, after a change of government, a new government should be accountable for the times that took place in the previous period. Unfortunately, we have seen that in Hungary, although almost every party has promised accountability in every election since 1990, this never happened. What's that supposed to mean? It's been 27 years, nobody's ever been accounted for, everyone's doing what they want. If you look at it in a very principled way, the reins are in place, you can do whatever it is you want to do, corruption can flourish. As a result, I believe that Hungary is in fact ranked 24th in the 28 Member States on the EU's corruption rankings and is in a very sad position in the world ranking, at the level of the Central African countries. This must be improved, and this can only be improved if we change the rules of criminal law in such a way and tighten it up. Obviously, in vain, we could say a hundred years, if there is no political will to detect and eliminate corruption, then obviously a legislative amendment will be worth virtually nothing. However, if we define it in 12 years, as the bill says, so the general rule, usually 5 years of statute of limitations, will increase to 12 years, this also means that some governments, even the government after the next government, will be able to hold back the politicians, those in office at that time, and they will still be able to check them. I think it is very good, therefore, to change this limitation period to 12 years. As we have seen, the Hungarian Parliament has already changed the statute of limitations several times, and this has already occurred at the session of the Legislative Committee; for example, in the case of crimes against minors, I think that Parliament has made a very good decision at the time when it did say that we should wait for the victim to become an adult, and that the limitation period will begin at the moment of age, because the victim who is a minor cannot yet enforce his rights, and who committed the crimes against the minor could do so calmly, because the parents or relatives did not come to do so, then it has never occurred to be possible to bring them into criminal liability. Obviously, even in the most severe homicide cases, it is also important that the time of liability, the statute of limitations, be extended even in the case of a qualified homicide. I think that this is the third area, and somehow the legislative work of the Parliament also follows those important elements in order of importance, the elements in which it is necessary to change. At a time when public order, public security, is in peril on a daily basis, when people feel threatened with their own lives and their physical integrity, when they go out on the street, they must indeed touch the criminal code, they must touch the punishments, they must be made quicker, they must be made more stringent, they must be implemented equally with everyone, and those which will curb the crime of that kind. I believe that, even in this case, if there is no such change, if corruption crimes are not on the agenda, if the prosecution does not bring proceedings, the police will not open an investigation, then we have achieved nothing with this amendment. I think we can take an example of the neighbouring countries. We can talk about Croatia, we can talk about Serbia, we can talk about Romania, where there are indeed groups within prosecutors' or prosecutors' offices that were not afraid to touch the highest political figures who did find out what kind of corruption cases had come to light in that country, and they did initiate accountability even against the state's supreme leader. And we also saw what it meant in Romania, for example, if a state wanted to ease corruption, when a law was introduced, the Bucharest Parliament adopted a law in which it gave a certain, quite serious amount of opportunity to commit corruption crimes, did not sanction them properly, the next day people went out on the streets, and tens of thousands of people demanded the Minister's departure, and even the entire government's departure, in order to promote corruption. I think that there is such a healthy right of self-determination in every country, when we do want to say that, we want to make society better, and that is in people. And at the time of XXVII. In Chapter II en bloc, we want to increase the limitation period for all corruption offences, so I think that we will certainly create a step, the possibility of reducing corruption offences in Hungary. That is the aim, and I hope that everyone in Hungary will agree on this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-291	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to point out that the Fidesz Group supports the motion for an independent representative, and we will vote on it tomorrow. However, I think that this proposal is worth a few words in substance, even though it consists of a total of two sentences, the second sentence is also the entry into force provision. Nevertheless, I think that it is a very serious issue in which Jobbik or anyone has initiated a bill, because we always take the proposal for the detection of corruption crimes and the prosecution of corruption crimes seriously here in the legislation. [[21.10]] We take it so seriously that, in recent years, the new criminal code has explicitly tightened the criminal rating of corruption. So before anyone thinks that this government hasn't done everything they can to prosecute corruption, it's enough to bring up the new Btk. and compare it to previous laws, what rules they were. I have to say that whoever deals with this issue knows precisely that the most difficult question of the persecution, prosecution or investigation of corruption is that there is a unit of intent between the perpetrators, i.e. the active and passive subject of corruption, and that this unit of intent must be broken in order to detect corruption. I think that every person who deals with criminal law can know that this is a type of crime where a briber and a briber agree to commit a crime. That is why it is necessary to use in criminal law instruments that have been included in the new criminal code that the criminal code promises impunity or at least unlimited mitigation to any of the perpetrators of corruption if it reveals this corruption crime. So a very important question is how to break the agreement between the subjects of corruption, the perpetrators of corruption. The extension of this limitation period, the extension of the limitation period, can indeed help. Even if it is not a hit to extend the statute of limitations, it will, in any case, give a longer time for one of the perpetrators of corruption to reconsider and reveal this corruption to the authorities. I would add that the limitation period for the most serious corruption offences is already at least ten years, but in fact, if we look at the penalties for these crimes accurately, there is a corruption crime that has already had ten years of limitation or could be persecuted within ten years. It is true that among minor or minor corruption offences, namely minor crimes that have been included in this particular XXVII. In Chapter III, some have been punished by a three-year sentence and therefore have a shorter statute of limitations than the more serious corruption crime referred to above. To sum up, I think that this proposal is not the only solution to the persecution of corruption, but it undoubtedly contributes to the instruments, the criminal law instruments that the government has already used, and legislation has already applied to corruption. I thought it was important to say this because the reason why we have to consider the proposal professionally and politically is that, in addition to the fact that obviously, as the rapporteur referred to it, a referendum initiative was also launched on this issue. Another issue is that, in general, simple questions can be asked for a referendum, complicated criminal law issues would not very well be passed on by the organisations examining the referendum. Therefore, a simplification of this whole corruption problem is the statute of limitations, and ultimately the fact that this could be a referendum or even a law is the explanation for this: those who have come up with a slightly simplistic approach to extending the limitation period. To sum up, this proposal is not bad, it is not harmful, and I even think it is improving the criminal prosecution of corruption. The legal solution itself is an unusual but not unprecedented solution. As has already been said in the debate, there have already been crimes where the limitation period is different from the general rules, there is a special limitation period, and I am thinking not only of crimes against war or humanity that fall within the category of never aging, but also of cases such as those recalled by Csaba Gyüre, when a child victim is typically committed a sexual or violent crime, in which case the limitation period begins with the age of the child victim, so the limitation period is to be calculated so that the adult adult adult of the adult age can consider whether he is prosecuting, for example, as a victim of domestic violence. There is a very serious reason for extending and pushing the statute of limitations, because only the victim can decide whether or not he wishes to reveal the crime against him to the authorities. Of course, corruption is not such a bribe, it is not in the interests of the victims, it is in the public interest and the public interest that these crimes can be persecuted for as long as possible. With the adoption of this proposal, as I have said, the scope of criminal law instruments adopted by the Government in the last seven years on a proposal from the Government is being extended. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-18-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mrs Márta Demeter is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is worth making clear that the ruling party, with this decision, has proved for many times that it is not interested in the opinion of the Hungarian people, since none of us really believes that Fidesz has supported such a proposal for years, but somehow it has never been possible to incorporate it into the law and codify it. It's been modified a lot of times, and it's a subject that wasn't important enough for the ruling parties to put into the law. It is clear that Fidesz was only afraid that the initiative launched by Gábor Vágó could actually be successful, and for a few weeks or months the public speech will not take place according to plans invented by Árpád Habony. So it is quite clear that Fidesz is hiding in a calculating way and is afraid of people's opinions, they know exactly that millions of Hungarians are disturbed by the theft that Hungarians have been forced to watch every day for years. That is why they divided and multiplied, and they concluded that it is far less risky for you to pass this bill than to allow the Hungarian people to express their views on this through a referendum. And it is also clear that they trust the well-established prosecutor's office and the Attorney General's excellent work for Fidesz. If it were so important for the ruling parties to fight corruption, then, for example, they could start by giving up the Attorney General, who we know is not going to open an investigation on any substantive matter on account of his commitment to the couple. It should be accepted that the referendum belongs to the people, not to the government. And what is unacceptable is that a lot of civil and opposition initiatives have been prevented by thugs, and sometimes by all kinds of legal tricks, while the referendum that the government is initiating is clearly being passed through the system. The LMP has a very clear position on this issue. In recent years, the LMP has supported every small step that breaks down, not building the corrupt fief system that Fidesz has built, and, of course, we will continue to support any step that breaks down the corrupt system in the future. At the same time, the LMP faction will only support a version that coincides with the original aim of the referendumers. Clearly, we do not trust and people do not trust Fidesz, but as a parliamentary party, we do not allow legal tricks to squeeze out the concrete proposal. We can also promise to take the Fidesz and its new leader on his word. [[21.20]] In the context of this proposal, they said that the government has its support, only the opposition proposal is missing. Then we will also test this support in such a way that we will submit a complex anti-corruption package. After all, the issue of statute of limitations is also an extremely important and symbolic issue in the fight against corruption, but it is also quite clear that Hungarian society expects a complex solution and substantial guarantees that the fight against corruption can actually take place, not only at this point, but in a comprehensive way. Therefore, not only do we submit our concrete proposals based on the LMP anti-corruption package, but we also call on the parliamentary parties to discuss this. We want the government not to be able to do so, and to say a clear yes or a clear no to each of our proposals, not just for the LMP fraction, of course, but for the Hungarian people. In order to combat corruption more effectively, the LMP faction has submitted numerous proposals and many amendments. Moreover, these proposals have always been rejected by the majority of governments without exception, even though the actuality of these proposals has not changed at all. If, after seven years, the objective of combating corruption is finally felt by the majority of governments, then it will be time for the LMP's numerous proposals on the subject to be adopted by the Parliament with the same stormy speed as they do in relation to the specific proposal. For example, it is acceptable, for example, to accept the concrete proposals against offshore knights, which, in addition, seek to effectively prohibit budget financing for offshore businesses, which have been bravely acting at the level of words and constitutional declarations, but which have so far worked with them to transform public goods into private assets. After all, offshore organizations with undiscoverable ownership and tax in Hungary are the most important means of building their own power and personal wealth from taxpayers' money, in addition to the use of stromones. Therefore, the LMP fraction has already submitted several times and now resubmits its consistently non-contractual proposals to such organisations, as well as the new criminal case called the offshore crime. To date, the majority of governments have also rejected the campaign financing reform that has been consistently proposed since 2010 and the total ban on the publication of propaganda ordered by paid public and municipal and public companies in order to reduce the covert party funding, and the restriction of other media purchases by these companies to market conditions. The mandatory propertyisation investigation of politicians has also occurred on numerous occasions on the self-defence system of government parties, such as publicising the fact of lobbying searches and encounters and lobbying materials, the full and immediate publication of public contracts, which constitute a condition of contractual validity, or the creation of full publicity of the procedures for concluding contracts with EU grants and the exploitation of national assets or the performance of public tasks. We also recommend to Gulyás Gergely, without the need for completeness, the LMP proposal to strengthen the watchdog function of media and press products, which would require an ex officio investigation of the evidence of acts and omissions in investigative reports and the results of these investigations to be regularly communicated to the public. Because Fidesz has run away from another referendum initiative, we know that they are afraid because they feel that the Hungarian people are fed up with institutionalized corruption. So I would also suggest to the pro-government representatives that they accept the anti-corruption proposal of the LMP fraction. If they do not do so, then again, it becomes evident to people that they are afraid of their opinion. However, you can be sure that in April 2018 the Hungarian people will express their views on the institutionalized corruption that the government has built and will put an end to in the past eight years. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-09-18-294	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Imre Vejkey is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-295	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/17383, though. With regard to the legislative proposal No.3 the derogations from the House Rules of the Decision were unanimously supported by the factions in today's vote, but if I look around here in the Chamber, the MSZP does not appear to be represented in this debate. So it is possible that you have nothing to say on this subject. Ladies and Gentlemen, The T/17383 submitted by Jobbik. It is also supported by the Christian Democrats, but we also believe that the resolution of the issue would have required more detailed regulation compared to that contained in the proposal. The development of the relevant more detailed regulation by the Fidesz-KDNP has been under way for a long time, but due to the deviation from the decision-making house rules, the one-hour deadline for amendment was set, and we were no longer able to present it in the context of this bill. In our view, simply by increasing the statute of limitations for a particular crime to future acts, the objective of prevention against corruption and official crimes appears to be extremely doubtful and extremely thin. Ladies and Gentlemen, De facto, the increase in the limitation period framework is not enough to further reduce crime in this direction, but jure also raises the question of how proportionality in relation to the whole system of penalties in force is in line with the bill, especially when the bill sets the same limitation period for a full chapter of the Btk. It's the Btk. set the general limitation period in relation to the weight of each offence. The proposal therefore carries the risk that the Btk. Its sanctioning system becomes disproportionate and the balance and the sanctioning structure adapted to the material gravity of the act is broken down. Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite the above concerns, however, the Christian Democrats will support T/17383. Bill No.1, i.e. the longer persecution of corruption crimes, because Fidesz-KDNP has declared a zero-percent tolerance to corruption, and in all circumstances, it also holds to it. Obviously, it is the Jobbik's responsibility to present proposals to this House. Given that the development and quality of this proposal raises serious concerns, which I have already mentioned above, Jobbik must bear the resulting consequences. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaking is still possible in line with the remaining time limits. Congressman Csaba Gyure asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-18-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Members of Parliament! I'd like to join the final word. Mr. Vejkey said that Jobbik should take responsibility. Well, yes, it will be accepted by Parliament, but we are obviously happy to bear the responsibility that we want to punish it more rigorously, or we want more stringent treatment of those who commit corruption crimes. Proportionality. My fellow Member Vejkey said that proportionality could be overturned. It's not the punishment that changes, it's just the punishment, it's the period of accountability. I don't think proportionality's gonna go over the top. Although I note that Jobbik has repeatedly tabled a bill for perpetrators of corruption crimes, if they are politicians, elected representatives, a double sentence. That might upset proportionality, but I don't think that would upset it either, because these politicians do deserve it, and the issue of threat here is most important that the legitimate threat lasts as long as possible and that the state can enforce its legitimate criminal claim against criminals as long as possible. Unfortunately, my time is up, thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[21.30]]
u2017-09-18-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Répássy Róbert is next.
u2017-09-18-299	Thank you for the floor. There is not much time left in the time frame, so allow me to deal with only one partial question. Anyone can wonder why 12 years is exactly what it is, so why were those who invented the referendum initiative or the bill in 12 years. I think it is important to bring this issue here because I think that posterity will judge the quality of this proposal or the quality of this law, because tomorrow it can become a law. Gábor Vágó and his associates thought that after the next elections they would have four more years to investigate these corruption cases. This is how it was calculated that after eight years of Fidesz administration, these crimes could be persecuted within four years, but this is a fundamental mistake, because the law has a forward-looking effect, i.e. from now on, this statute of limitations is 12 years, in which we have to think more about how much the opposition appreciates itself, when it will have a chance of ever becoming majority in Parliament. Therefore, it is worth considering whether either they did not understand how a criminal law would enter into force, when it might enter into force, or whether their own chances are estimated so that they can deal with these issues in 12 years, or, say, eight years from now. It doesn't matter why they invented it anyway. I have just said that in the Criminal Code, the limitation period for more serious corruption offences is 10 years, so this 10 or 12 years does not change so much; what they can achieve is that the limitation period for Bagatell cases and minor crimes will rise to 12 years. This doesn't make much sense, but, of course, it will be sad for those finance officers or border guards or police officers who will be held accountable for such crimes, because from now on they can be held accountable for them up to 12 years from now, while politicians could otherwise be held accountable for these crimes for 10 years. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is always dangerous to use criminal law as part of a political campaign; it is always dangerous to make a referendum issue out of a criminal matter. Well, well, well, this bill is an example. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-18-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Imre Vejkey of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-18-301	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre spoke to me, I would like to give a very short answer to what he has said. In my view, Jobbik considered the submission of this bill to be a good political catch, marketing, as they themselves, during the general debate, said that this morning this bill was presented specifically on the basis of our fellow Member Gergely Gulyás's statement on the weekend. That is why I said in my speech as lead speaker that the drafting and quality of the proposal raises serious concerns, ladies and gentlemen, and if these concerns are to be shared, Jobbik will have to bear the consequences. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-18-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Staudt if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Your time frame is 17 minutes 40 seconds, please.
u2017-09-18-303	Thank you very much. I'm not the vindictive type to talk 17 minutes off at this late hour, but I'd definitely like to respond to a few suggestions. I understand that the grapes are sour, so that is actually what has been said in the mouth of my fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP before me, and in fact I meant or felt that they would not, in their heart, vote for this proposal, but there is the referendum initiative, and someone in the witch's kitchen has figured out that this is how it should be done. To talk about the development of a proposal that sets a general 12-year limitation period for the list of corruption offences set out in Chapter 27, that is all you do, is do nothing else, it is very difficult, my fellow Member Vejkey. I mean, you can say how proportional it is, right? It's a choice. Tomorrow, you'll think it's proportionate because you'll vote for it. If this were to be considered to be very disproportionate, to an extent disproportionate, which violates fundamental or other laws, then they would not vote, I think, since they are inclined to vote, I assume that if they find constitutional concerns, then they will not vote for it. Believe me that this responsibility, that such a proposal is presented and adopted, is much easier to bear than the responsibility of governing the last 7 years, and if it were to be accounted for, I understand that those present are probably less involved in accountability, so that this may justify the calmness, because I have not heard of my fellow Members present; then I may be underinformed, but that they would have been involved in corruption scandals, of course, the future can bring anything, but it is not primarily you who are involved in these transactions. And of course, based on the information that has been published so far, everyone can see their own soul and the good Lord's soul as well, whether I am right about that, but the point is that this may justify Imre Vejkey's calmness, that he may not know of corruption cases that are indeed affecting the Fidesz-KDNP government. It is just that, obviously, as has been said, corruption crimes - said Róbert Répássy - have the peculiarity that they do not usually like to share with others that they have been involved in this. If that is the case, they may not even share it with their fellow political groups, so things may turn out that you also say that we didn't know about it, or that you may not even think about the kind of business you might be involved in. I'm saying I don't assume they know, but they won't press charges, because that would be a crime in itself. But on the other hand, what is very important is that this proposal - and here in my fellow Member Vejkey's speech, I have seen a little shift in roles, as if we were on the government and you were attacking the proposal from opposition. I hope that we will be able to practice this more in 18 years. You have said that the Fidesz-KDNP Members have already worked on an anti-corruption proposal, that is what my fellow Member said, and that we have tabled this and that this is why they cannot submit it. I encourage my fellow Member to submit it. If that proposal moves forward the current situation, we will support it. And then they may be able to negotiate with Gergely Gulyás, their new leader of the group, if he seems to be showing greater flexibility towards such proposals, and then we may be able to go together in a direction to clean Hungary up a little bit of corruption. Whoever can present these proposals, I can say that the right-wingers will support it, and it seems that in this, although now I look around from several parties, I can no longer see representatives of other parties, but it obviously seems that they will vote for it tomorrow, so there will probably not be any tie-breakers in the fight against corruption. It is also true, of course, because of this, that this only regulates one segment of the problem. And I would be happiest if, by the way, 27 years back could be arranged so that these crimes would not lapse, even with retroactive effect. I do not know whether there is a solution to this, it would probably be quite difficult, even by amending the basic law, but at least - and this refers to minor crimes - at least it is a step forward if, in the case of minor crimes, this can be held accountable, even if it is milder punishment and if it is later, it can be done, and the same is true for a corrupt border guard, such as politicians who may have pocketed only a few million forints or smaller amounts, or who otherwise abuse their power and cause harm. [[21.40]] So what we have not done is closed, so I must reassure you that we do not think that this is the end of the road, and we just want to see more stringent proposals. By the way, I would add that my fellow Members were there, and Répássy Róbert was certainly not in favour of inclusion today at the Justice Committee, where a proposal for the prosecution of corruption offences on similar subjects was also voted out. That's how I understood the vote. I had a fellow Member there. There, obviously, we would have raised the punishments for acts committed by public figures and officials. They couldn't accept this either, but I could list it, and maybe 17 minutes wouldn't be enough to know what proposals we made, what amendments we made, what amendments we made to the prosecution's organisation, or even what our proposal to set up the anti-corruption prosecutor's office was all in the trash. We have touched on almost all areas of life, the fight against corruption, and I should not talk about the obligation to make declarations of property for Members, or even the abolition of immunity. So it seems that nothing has broken the barriers beyond this proposal, and we have seen here that there is a compelling circumstance because of the referendum, but I, as I said, do not exercise the right to make any more anti-corruption proposals, or not only an anti-corruption proposal from the opposition from the outside, but you can do the same. I have one thing to clarify, and I think that I would end my thinking that, unfortunately, it is a fact, and it is supported not only by international research, but also by various statements from public procurement, if we look at the fact that the corruption situation in Hungary is tragic, it is bad enough. Public money is largely lost. Now, if that's the case, why is there no accountability, or why is there a reason for his absence? There are two reasons: either law enforcement doesn't know, they can't do it, or they can't do their political trail to uncover these cases, that's one possibility. The other possibility is that they would love to, but the laws are wrong, and the perpetrators are always slipping out of law enforcement. Or, by the way, both of them together can be mixed in this way. The only problem with that is that you reject all of this separately. So when we talk about the system of justice, the argument is that the prosecution is doing its job, the police are doing their job, they're doing their job very well. Well, the Hungarian law allows this: nothing at all. Then, if the laws allow so much, the laws must be changed. But we're not changing the laws to any opposition amendment or a pro-government petition. So you will accept that - and I am obviously not just talking about the people present here - this situation may exist, and now the Hungarian government debt, if we look at it from 90 onwards, is at least three to four times what has flowed black out of this country, has been stolen. So, as a closing point, I would just encourage the present pro-government representatives to pass on to their fellow Members, to the government or to the decision-making Fidesz leaders who have the power to make these proposals calmly, the opposition will be happy to support them. Believe me, if people see something happening, and anyone who commits a crime, is taken away, goes to prison, the justice system strikes him without party political affiliation, it will bring back trust. Of course, legislative amendments alone are little or perhaps not enough, but let us at least start this way. This could be a first milestone. I ask that these proposals be put to the table, and it will not depend on us. We've done it before, and we'll do it again in the future. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-18-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Why is water undrinkable in several settlements? Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-18-305	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today I asked to speak here in Parliament because I am trying to draw attention to a problem that may have been known to many, but is still waiting for a solution, despite the fact that we thought we had solved it once. We had an obligation in the European Union in which the quality of drinking water had to be adapted to the European Union's expectations, i.e. to make it not only drinkable, but also fully acceptable in terms of health or health, and to meet the limit. The Hungarian State has received not little support to achieve this and reduce the levels of arsenic in drinking water in accordance with EU rules. Typically, these drinking water quality development investments had to be carried out in areas such as South Great Plain, North Great Plain or, for example, South Transdanubia or parts of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. These investments have been made using not a small amount of EU money, which rightly expected the public to improve the quality of drinking water, on the one hand, in terms of what they could not detect, i.e. a significant decrease in the detection of arsenic levels. This, of course, does not occur in a qualitatively noticeable way for consumption, but in addition to the fact that drinking water has been successfully reduced for a very short period of time in arsenic content, due to technological problems and construction problems, the unexpected side effects are that in many places water has become undrinkable, irony and other discolorations. On the one hand, the waters became undrinkable in almost every settlement in its smell, smell, texture, and appearance. And a large part of the investment was found to be the same problems in almost every settlement, which, as it turned out, was due to a technological problem, since the beneficiaries themselves chose a technology for the development, which, as it turned out, did not make their water better, but even worse than before. Here, therefore, the question was rightly raised, and in my constituency several settlements, but perhaps most likely Tiszagyenda, a rather small village, nevertheless faced a serious problem, after basically six months of operation, their water became undrinkable. It contained completely sediments, substances dissolved in sediments that not only completely spoiled the smell and taste of the water, but also affected all their water-powered equipment. Overall, this investment cost nearly HUF 300 million, and when I asked about the problem in my written question and how it could be resolved, unfortunately, I was able to get a more condescending and misleading response from the Ministry of National Development. However, local people don't forget what happened there, they can't be easily led by an answer from a semi-shoulder. It has become clear to everyone that this investment, which is intended to protect the mistakes, is not real and has become a poorly designed investment, resulting in the fact that everyone in the village is currently forced to buy bubby or otherwise carbon-free mineral water, even to use such water for bathing, or otherwise to wait for a very bad situation for the municipality to provide them with water from a flat car or something else. It is not enough for someone in their home, honourable fellow Members, to think of what it must be like in a public institution, what it must be like in a kindergarten, what it must be like in school, or what it must be like to live in their kitchens and to work in their kitchen from these tap waters. No wonder, in the whole settlement, when I was there, almost everyone carried the mineral water to a pile, and now it's nothing new, it's a problem that's been going on for years. Local residents, the local government, were constantly looking for a solution, and they constantly bounced back from regional waterworks and the Ministry, ÁNTSZ. There is no doubt, therefore, that the state, the government, does not think that it will solve this problem. It must be stated that it cannot remain this way, it cannot remain this way in Tiszagyenda, it cannot remain this way in Nagyiván, it cannot remain this way in the settlements of southern Transdanubia. Not only in the Grand Community, but across the country, they are struggling with this problem, whether it be the county of Peace, Baranya or the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok. I therefore consider it the right solution, and I call to the attention of both the honourable government and the Parliament that, as long as it is possible, we should review these investments, whether they have succeeded well, and how to remedy them, because we may still be in it after the breach of the contract, at a time when this can be restored and given the quality of water that citizens rightly expect there, and finally, they can drink water that their former ancestors have consumed decades before. They deserve it, and the High Council deserves to finally have water to drink. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[21.50]]
u2017-09-18-306	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I thank you for your full day's work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. We wish you all a restful, good night. [[Meeting ended at 9:51 p.m.]]
