u2017-04-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to our guests and all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's St. George's Day. XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. By law, 24 April, St. George's Day is the day of the Police and the Parliamentary Guard. Dear Parliament, Being in the service of the state and its citizens is a noble profession. Protecting the state's order of freedom and democracy, but serving the everyday security of citizens, is among the noblest. This is especially true if performing this service involves risking the individual's own life and physical integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, The essence of the police profession is fulfilled in the eternal virtues that are essential in the fight against crimes and threats to human life, the property of the public and citizens. These virtues - self-sacrifice, brave and unwavering duty, helping our fellow humans - were embodied in the medieval cult of St. George. His respect appeared in Hungary already during St. Stephen's time, and within a short time he became deeply rooted in folk tradition. What proves this better than the fact that many of our medieval churches have chosen him as patrons, and more than twenty Hungarian settlements still bear the name of St. George. It is worth considering that if a sacred honor is to this extent part of the traditions and beliefs of a society, it also proves that society, the community, attaches great importance to the values represented by that saint. St. George is usually remembered as the hero who defeats the dragon. According to his medieval legend, however, George was more than a brave soldier who helped those in distress. During the most intense Christian persecution of the Roman emperor, St. George died of martyrdom for his faith and values as well as the supreme example of a man who remained faithful to the end. I am sure - and we can all be sure of that - that we Hungarians, not only saw and view the saint that has become popular throughout Europe as a helper, but as a role model that has maintained its values all along. Today, when the global security environment changes with extreme speed, when new physical and virtual threats appear in our daily lives, when news of new terrorist attacks and state of emergency worldwide, we can rest assured that our police and law enforcement bodies are faithfully and committed to protecting our values and security through the examples of St. George and other military saints. Today, we must thank our police officers in particular for the increased border protection tasks. I think it is important to emphasise this because these border protection tasks are not just a professional challenge for our police officers in different parts of our country, but also often a serious sacrifice, a time spent far away from their families. Today, Honourable Parliament, we also remember those who have lost their lives or suffered injuries while performing their service. Dear Parliament, The Parliamentary Watch, which is responsible for our security, that is to say, the President, its officials, its members and employees, and for the protection of Parliament's buildings, celebrates the 105th anniversary of its establishment this year. I would like to express our thanks for providing you with a wide range of professional services. Today, the National Assembly of Hungary expresses its respect and thanks to all police and parliamentary guards who deserve the respect of our society and the members and colleagues of the National Assembly for their service every day of the year. Thank you for your kind attention. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for instant questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, applied for a pre-meeting speech: It is duty to defend the interests of the Hungarian people and to respect the sovereignty of the Member States. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we see, Brussels is determined to bring some of the decisions in national competence into Community competence, thereby violating our national sovereignty. I am convinced that by doing so, all of us who are representatives of the Hungarian Parliament are committed to preserving Hungary's national sovereignty. One of the most important issues related to our sovereignty is the protection of the reduction of overhead. By putting energy policy into Community competence, Brussels would eliminate the possibility for Hungary to keep energy prices at a low level at official prices, and also jeopardise our further results in relation to the issue of Community tax policy, the migrant quota. Hungary, as a member of the European Union, wants to preserve the results of the family's quality of life, prosperity and growth, including the reduction of costs. [[11.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Brussels launched an attack on the Hungarian debt reduction by introducing price regulation at EU level, which represents a significantly higher electricity price for Hungarian consumers. This would adversely affect Hungarian citizens and would also create a serious competitive disadvantage for the Hungarian economy. We need to prepare for a very serious fight to protect the reduction of the rent, for which we need the support of all Hungarians. That is why we have launched the national consultation, one of which concerns this. Hungary is strong and united, and the government can stand up for all Hungarian people if as many as possible support its efforts to protect the interests of the country. This threat is a fact, as the European Commission presented a package of measures in November 2016, including a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity and a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal markets in electricity. In this connection, the Committee on European Affairs of the Hungarian Parliament concluded that the package of measures violates the principle of subsidiarity and therefore initiates a subsidiarity procedure, which has already been discussed by way of a house rule and can be voted on in the first days of May. As we said in the debate on the relevant parliamentary decision in this House, we strongly and sharply oppose the price definition of electricity and services at EU level through a yellow flat procedure. It's a nation-state jurisdiction. The European Commission is in breach of the principle of sovereignty, also of the Treaty, when it intends to take a decision at Community level. It endangers Hungary's national independence and the social security of Hungarian families by eliminating the reduction of the rent, making Hungarian people vulnerable to foreign service providers, as it was before 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, After 2010, the Orbán government reduced the prices of district heating, gas and electricity by 25 percent, as well as further reductions in overhead costs. As a result, more money was left in the family, the debts decreased by tens of billions of HUF, the number of behind-the-clock consumers decreased, and significant consumer protection reforms were implemented. Public price regulation in the Member States is therefore an effective and secure means of protecting consumers. As early as July 2013, the Hungarian Parliament decided to protect the reduction of the rent, and it had already clearly rejected the opposition efforts for economic lobbying interests. He called on the government to stick to the policy of reducing the cost of gas, despite all the pressure. Due to the current stealthy legislation in Brussels, we need to stand up again for our national sovereignty. It is our duty to defend the interests of the Hungarian people, and it is the duty of Brussels to respect the sovereignty of the Member States. We need to protect the reduction of the rent, so we need to join forces, which is why we count on the interests of all Hungarian people and the support of our fellow countrymen, who are important for the rise of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2017-04-24-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In his speech, Mr President, he drew attention to a real danger. It is very important that, in the course of the national consultation, the government is given as much good answers as possible to this issue, because the majority of Hungarian citizens help and legitimise the position by protecting the values of the reduction of rent, the risk of which is clearly demonstrated by the European Commission's published proposal on 30 November 2016 entitled Clean Energy for all Europeans. This package is a tool for implementing the Energy Union, which has supported and supported the Energy Union to date, including the important goal of providing affordable energy to consumers, the necessary investment in infrastructure with EU support, and of course we can also support processes for research and development, energy efficiency and decarbonisation, i.e. carbon-free energy production. However, the proposal published on 30 November 2016 is of a number of concerns and can be identified in terms of directions, regulatory points that violate the sovereignty of the Member States and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Such is also the point where it intends to carry out regional system governance by devolved powers from system controllers and, in addition, the responsibility for security of supply remains with the Member States. Hungary supports regional cooperation and participates in such regional cooperation, but at the time of the adoption of the Energy Union, we also took the view and the majority position of the Member States was that regional cooperation should be carried out in a cost-effective manner on the basis of the principles of bottom-up, voluntary and best practice. The regulation in this regard, contained in the package of clean energy for all Europeans, differs from this and does not follow these principles. Another very important thing is that it also belongs to the sovereignty of the Member States to determine the content of our energy mix, but the European Commission is launching an indirect regulation, namely Brussels, and it would indirectly restrict the application of our right to do so. For example, if we were to mention that power plants could be used under 550 grams/kilowattor emissions only in capacity management, this would also mean that coal power plants would fall out in crisis situations and, on the other hand, by using Russian imported gas, we would increase European energy dependence, so this is also a concern. What is more important, however, and is seriously detrimental to the interests of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian consumers, is that they would abolish the regulated price and leave the electricity price to the market. In this respect, let me underline that, from 2010 onwards, between 2010 and 2015, where electricity was sold at market prices instead of regulated prices, electricity prices have increased everywhere, whereas in Hungary the price of electricity has decreased significantly between 2012 and November 2016, we can show a decrease of around 25 per cent. As a result, we have also succeeded in eliminating energy poverty. The amount of outstanding amounts fell by half and the number of debtors in delay decreased by about a third. More than a third of the number of off-line retail customers has decreased. These data show quite plastically that the implementation and maintenance of a regulated price, i.e. a reduction in overhead costs, is in the general interest of society. You are doing the right thing, Congressman, and the Committee on European Affairs is doing the right thing to preserve these values. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] has acted with sufficient weight. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[11.20]]
u2017-04-24-4	Thank you, Secretary of State Aradski. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dissatisfaction in the country is growing, and we can see countless traces of this in everyday life. This also hurts Hungarian workers. And the fact that you're ignoring this and doing some other kind of propaganda is obviously on your hands, it's your responsibility. However, living proof that there is a change in the country and that dissatisfaction is growing is that Bence Bitskey received about twice as many votes in Zugló, and he won as a candidate for the Hungarian Socialist Party and opposition parties. This is a huge success, because earlier on there was a much closer election result. So I congratulate Bitskey Bence and the Zuglós. However, change cannot be self-evident, since it must be very clear why a change of government is necessary and why it is important that there is a chance in 2018. For the sake of the Hungarian people and for the interests of Hungarian workers, you have kept the interests of Hungarian workers in the background for the last seven years of their government. They started immediately after the 2010 municipal election in December by practically abolishing the right to strike in Hungary, and then proudly proclaiming their work peace. This was accepted around 2:30 a.m.; then, from 2011 onwards, the minimum wage was taxed, also without consensus with workers' organisations. In 2011, a comprehensive amendment to the Labour Code was adopted, allowances were withdrawn and reduced. The flexible labour market was therefore envisaged with flexible exploitation of workers. It is possible to analyse these laws, to answer one question: were these amendments in the interest of Hungarian workers? The answer is simple: no, these amendments were contrary to their interests. After these artificially low payments, there has been a very serious exodus in Hungary, hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen have left the country, about half a million, and yet another development is that the resulting shortage of labour is now being addressed by overworkers who remain at home. An outrageous amendment package has been presented to the Parliament, which, apparently, according to their good habits, has not been discussed with workers' organisations or trade unions. The trade unions, the people involved, are now simply calling it a slave labour law. László Kordás, President of the Hungarian Trade Union Association, also gave their members an opinion on this legislation, which actually introduces three years of working time clearance, thereby making the follow-up of working hours and rest periods as well as the wages and allowances it entails, and makes the relationship between work and leisure permanently unpredictable. It gives employers the opportunity to take exploitation to a level where appropriate, one day of rest per month per month, which is obviously outrageous and further exploitation of workers. The consultation was therefore omitted, and the opinion was quite evident on the part of the workers. These opinions should obviously be taken into account in the interests of Hungarian workers. There is a rumor that, at the VKF meeting on 3 May, you want to bring this subject in afterwards and you want to agree with the employees in addition to the budget and tax laws, but I do not think that is enough. You have sided with the multinationals, and this has also been seen in their amendments on corporate tax, as they have released the biggest tax burden to those who have the highest income in Hungary, and have really and exclusively reduced corporate tax. So this is little, and now the only way to remedy the situation that they have created is to withdraw the slave labour law, withdraw it, and, in consultation with the workers' organisations and trade unions, make proposals to amend the labour code for Hungarian workers, so that their wages can grow for the welfare of their families, stop migration and bring hundreds of thousands of our countrymen home. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond.
u2017-04-24-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you started with a municipal interim election, then let me start with that. I, on the other hand, would like to congratulate the Fidesz candidate in Józsefváros, who won this election with a persuasive opinion, and Fidesz did not have to make a separate alliance with anyone, he won as a candidate for Fidesz. The other thing I would like to respond to in the first place is that you have declared the government's responsibility for certain legislative proposals. If you don't mind, we'll look back a little bit. I, on the other hand, would like to raise your responsibility as the Hungarian Socialist Party, reminding you of the times when, under your governance, the number of unemployed people in Hungary doubled, with a unemployment rate of 12 per cent, passed on government in 2010. [[Zoltán Haughty: After the crisis!]] In fact, it should also be said that during your administration, which, of course, you are no longer so proud of, incomes have declined steadily, you have taken a month's pension from pensioners and then you have taken away a month's income from employees. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Did you give it back?]] and a steady decline in real income during your governance. Well, people don't want to bring that back. By the way, if we look at the polls, then your support will hardly reach the level of getting close to making any decisions or forming a government in this country, here in Parliament. [[Zoltán Pride: You will be surprised!]] But it would not be understandable, because if we look at the employment policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010, I think that we can deliver serious results. Firstly, the number of jobs has increased significantly, thus the number of people employed and the number of workers. This has been around 700,000 people since 2010, with an average of 100,000 jobs per year in the country during the seven years of governance. The unemployment rate has fallen significantly as it has now been shown to have fallen below 5 per cent by statistics, which is a very serious and significant achievement, taking into account EU standards. Since 2014, incomes, real incomes and consumption have been constantly increasing; this also indicates that people have more money in their pockets, that they can spend more on their existence and livelihoods. This is made up of several parts. Here I would like to highlight the extent of economic growth and the proportion of income growth. The government is also promoting employment expansion and income growth, as the six-year wage agreement concluded in November last year between employers, employees and government - which has not been the case since the regime change and is a highly recognised event at international level - fully confirms that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased significantly on 1 January 2017 and that this will continue to increase on 1 January 2018 which the government has agreed to do. At the same time, the rate of the social contribution tax and the rate of corporate tax decreased, so the government and the state contribute by reducing the public burden in order to create an increase in wages for businesses and employers. As far as the above-mentioned bill is concerned, there is no question that the government will overwork - or, if it accepts it, Parliament - anyone in this bill. It simply converts the working time frame, making it essentially flexible. Moreover, there are international examples of this in EU countries. [[11.30]] I would like to say that this bill will be put before the competition sphere and the permanent consultation forum of the government, the expected impact of this will be discussed there, then the bill will be returned to the government, and then a decision will be taken on the future fate of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-8	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, spoke before the agenda, with the title "Agitprop refilled." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-9	Thank you very much. We report from week to week on cases that all prove that we are witnessing the biggest series of crimes in Hungary's history, and we are witnessing a series of crimes directed from the highest level. Theft of EU funds is virtually non-negotiable, and it is not exaggeration at all. In comparison, it is obvious that we often get from the government side that this cannot be true because we look at the polls, even now, among the people willing to choose, let's say, 50-55 percent are the ones who would vote for the government or the opposition. Many, even opposition politicians and voters say that this is due to Hungarian mentality. That explains how they steal, humiliate us, steal us, humiliate us, and still measure such polls. Obviously, this does not contradict my first statement, since it does not follow that these thefts did not occur. A lot of explanations could be found, and there must be an explanation for the opposition, obviously, among itself. However, I would not be talking about this right now, but about the political methods, the gangster policy methods that we thought were the 21st in Hungary and Europe. No one's gonna use these anymore in the century. There are also those who say that today the Prime Minister is a genius, that he can achieve such results with such theft. I'm not saying he's a genius, and it's very important for everyone to know that this man is not a genius, but he's unscrupulous about political means that we thought were the 21st. They won't touch in the first century. One of the most important of these instruments is agitation propaganda. Agitprop, that's what they called it in communism. Lucky for me, I've seen relatively little of this, but I've seen it, and I can read history books, and I can hear stories from my parents and grandparents about what agitation propaganda meant, what agitprop meant, what abominable advertisements they saw on the street, and what abominable news they saw on TV, heard on the radio. Just like today, we were still looking for help from Moscow, and they also told us how well the country looks, how much it grows, how happy everyone is. Everyone knew then that they were lies, but they worked for a while. Agitation propaganda, government propaganda, is very pleasant to the government for three things, and it is a crime against the country for three things. On the one hand, because the government propaganda we see is obviously corruption. I mean, buying something for nothing and paying for it is obviously corruption. I'm sorry for the professional analogy, but if the government decides to buy a gold toilet brush in every department toilet, it's a perfectly clear corruption because it bought a very expensive item unnecessarily. When you put it on the posters for billions that Hungary is growing stronger, it is equally unnecessary, because you are true and stronger, I do not think so, but then why advertise? But if it's not true, then what's the big deal? That's a stolen money. The same can be said about the, let's stop Brussels, because stopping a city in Western Europe is difficult, unless they are thinking about stopping the money that comes from there. Government propaganda is also a very big crime because of this money to pay the prostitute press, the pro-government press. That's how they keep these organs. Well, obviously, the biggest crime is manipulation, manipulating people. This does not come from the Hungarian people's souls. This accident can happen to all peoples, we have seen it, we still see it in Turkey and Russia, but there have been examples of this in Western Europe not so long ago. Unfortunately, the example of university murder shows that the government is now saying goodbye to its intellectual background. It's not important to be intellectual, it's measured by mass manipulation reaching its goal. For this reason, we must say that the 2018 election will be an unfair choice, because it is not a fair choice where the government can give its opinion from dozens of billions of forints, and the opposition cannot do so. Still, you have to be there, because we don't have huge campaigns, we don't have a lot of money left in the press, but we're right. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek and Agnes Kunhalmi applaud.]]
u2017-04-24-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Hadházy. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2017-04-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I don't think an ad in itself is unnecessary, and I don't think your party thinks so either. Because if you thought so, you would not spend a small amount of money on, for example, Facebook ads that are currently running - I would like to draw your attention to this, you know very well. Honourable Congressman, In your speech, I quote, you used the word agitprop. I've thought about that word several times in the last few days, and unfortunately, several times in connection with the LMP. A week ago, or your co-chair - it is difficult to follow how many presidents of the LMP have, but your co-chair - when you shouted in your usual tone, with the usual raised voice in Parliament, and lied to the pro-governments about a parliamentary report, I remembered this. It was a parliamentary report adopted by the European Parliament, and this European Parliament report says, among other things, that immigration is not a threat but an opportunity for Europe to take advantage of. This report therefore proposes extending the concept of refugees to economic immigrants and facilitating family reunification. The European Parliament's resolution would also put an end to the legal detention of illegal immigrants, thus eliminating the legal border closure. And to make the whole thing worse, this report says that aid should be paid regardless of security considerations. But most importantly, this resolution would speed up the resettlement programmes. Honourable Congressman, I am bringing this up here because this resolution, this European Parliament resolution, has been voted by the left-wing parties in the European Parliament one by one. Your party, the LMP. So the real propaganda is what you're doing. The report will be voted in Brussels and the electorate will be misled in this regard at home. They vote in favour of everything, the situation in Brussels, which supports resettlement programmes. That's not surprising in one way or another. That is because the list of soros relations in Brussels has been leaked, and your MEP is watching on this list. And by the way, if we look at the activities of this Member, he will vote against the interests of the country. Honourable Congressman, So when you talk about LMP agitpropaganda, I think you actually include the tone. That's what you said, perhaps. But that reminds me, on March 15th, you compared those who disagree with the LMP with a noble simplicity. Now, that's the real agitate propaganda. That's the tone we heard in the '80s and even before that. Now, I'm not gonna be the one who's gonna be jumping around long enough to see how outrageous this is. I simply note that LMP does not comply with the principles on the basis of which it was established, in this sense it will be a very good place for the big left-wing collapsing. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik also applied for a speech before the agenda:. How long can the Hungarian workforce be sabotaged? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-13	Mr President, Dear House, The representatives of the governing parties are calling us to account for why we do not recognise their great achievements. My answer to this is to not only calculate relative economic data, so not only the 6-8-10 percent increase compared to the very weak result of last year, but also at absolute value. But to be fair, let's look at a result that the government, by the way, sings praises, and that is that the minimum wage has increased significantly in a range of 15-25 percent this year. [[11.40]] Let's see what's behind this. After all, this story would be very nice if there were only so many pages of the book. All we see is that if we compare this data not only with regional countries, but also with the EU Member States, this year's spectacular growth is still just enough to keep our country between the hosts in the EU and in the region, and unfortunately, we have not been able to get close to regional competitors. What we see is that behind Hungary there is only the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria in the minimum wage if we measure this in euro. So what we see is that if the government doesn't manipulate with relative comparison, but simply examines absolute data, then a catastrophic picture of the situation is formed. But the situation is even worse if we look at Hungarian wages in terms of purchasing power, as we see here that only Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Malta have been put behind us from among the 27 Member States. However, the Orbán government is simply imposing a brutal and unjustified tax burden on relatively low, very, very low wages at European level. On average, the OECD studies show that the burden on Belgian and German salaries is higher. So at this level, the Orbán government has a record to tell about itself. What is truly brutal, however, is the tax burden on low-income earners, where we are, in fact, not European, but world leaders. After all, there is no such tax burden on 67 percent of the average wage, about two thirds of those seeking it, anywhere else in the OECD Member States. Thus, the Orbán government is the most brutal in taxes among relatively low earners. And here comes the various government propaganda that I want to tax consumption, not income. The system of family tax incentives is, by the way, recognised and even justified, but while we see that those with two thirds of the average wage are the most brutal - so we do not find a similar example almost all over the world - the government is quite simply tolerant of those with a high salary; which in itself would not be a problem, in the OECD Member States, it is only the eighth highest burden on those with high salaries. I would not like them to be carbonised in the future, I would like to see the burden of low salaries reduced to at least the same level as in the case of high salaries. So this unjustified double taxation, which has been implemented in Hungary within a single-key tax system, should at least calm down in the coming years. So we should catch up with you, as you support high-paying people with family tax incentives, the extended discount system of the CSOK, and Jobbik would clearly be in favour of the lower-income groups in the middle class. After all, we see that they are the first beneficiaries who need these benefits. At the same time, we see that the government is doing some very impertinent things to those who are working weaker, a slavely amendment to the Code of Work, which you believe to be flexible, quite simply outrageous, my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs has explained in detail our concerns about this. So it's quite amazing: your Prime Minister in Saudi Arabia is campaigning for working capital to come to Hungary, because there is cheap labour and flexible, sufficiently flexible labour code. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] And now they have the nerve to make an amendment that will allow workers to continue to sabotage and increase their vulnerability. It's pretty amazing. And not only are they campaigning in Saudi Arabia, they have actually set up a assembly plant from Hungary instead of strengthening the Hungarian economy, which is perfectly vulnerable to the seasonal offers of German and other car manufacturers. Multi-company companies were not included in the scope of public burden-sharing, strategic contracts were signed with those whose total income on an annual basis may exceed Hungary's GDP and their pre- and post-tax results are of the same magnitude. So they give them unjustified benefits, the Hungarian small entrepreneurs are being oppressed, the statistics prove to be true that the lives of low-income Hungarian workers are simply being destroyed by you. They should change that if they even have a vision on this issue. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-14	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who responds on behalf of the government.
u2017-04-24-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with a political comment: [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then the data can come!]] The approach of Jobbik and the MSZP is completely converging, as they are already asking questions in the speeches before the agenda. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Last day proved this, Sunday at an election, in Zuglo, where Jobbik didn't start a candidate against the left-wingers. [[György Szilágyi: Great success!]] So, obviously, he gave his small votes to the candidate on the left. But this is contrary to the policy announced that Jobbik will get votes from the left. I see that they are doing everything they can to achieve it, and they are thinking in a similar spirit about the Wages Union, and they are thinking in a similar spirit about the Code of Work, but they are doing something different for the time being, because they are not drawing voters from the left, as Gábor Vona announced, but giving their voters to the left. [[György Szilágyi: What about the tax?]] As regards the specific content of the speech before the agenda, I think that Hungary has nothing to be ashamed of, for example, in the area of personal income taxation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Only for the Government!]] You're probably confusing left-wing governance with the current one with a 40-percent personal income tax, under the Fidesz government there's a single-key personal income tax from 2011, starting from 16 percent, and now it's 15 percent. In one country in the European Union, personal income tax rates are lower than in Hungary. This does not mean that there is nothing to do anymore and that the aim of the government is, of course, to reduce public burdens, but, unlike you, it depends not on a statement, on a political announcement, but on what the economy is capable of in Hungary. First, the circumstances of the economy, the medium and its conditionality must be made so that we can produce more, so that economic growth is lasting and significant, that employment is significant, as I have done in recent years; in my speech before the previous agenda, the number of jobs and the number of workers increased by 700 thousand. This means that so much more people in Hungary are obviously paying taxes, and so much more people are earning income and not living on aid. Yes, this is a serious achievement for the country. I also think that it should be said that Hungarian personal income taxation is a complex matter, not only of a tax rate, but also of discounts, such as a family tax reduction. In Hungary, the system of family tax relief is unique in Europe, and since the 2010 government change, including this year, some HUF 4000 billion remained in people's pockets on the one hand with a personal income tax reduction and the family tax reduction on the other. Of course, this can be marginalized, but macro-economic indicators indicate that more people are working in Hungary, that people are earning more, that their income and real income in it are increasing significantly. In this way they consume more in Hungary, and the government is obviously aiming to further strengthen this. This is also the aim of the six-year wage agreement, where the government provides a predictable path for all players, employers and employees, and they do give each other the agreement, which means that the rate of growth of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will be predictable and the rate of reduction of public burdens can be calculated, both in terms of so-called contributions and in terms of corporate tax and personal income tax. I believe that the results of the government at international level, at European Union level, are indeed worthy of recognition, and there is no reason for the government to pursue other economic policies and other employment policies in the future. After the elections, we want to continue on this path. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, Fidesz Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Huge pressure in Hungary, Soros is lobbying in Brussels! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[11.50]]
u2017-04-24-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today is St. George's Day, just like Mr. Vice President remembered at his opening. Saint George is a Christian martyr who died for Christendom, for Christians, because he did not want to participate in persecution against Christians. On this day, among other things, the scoutry and several cities and the police celebrate their own day, St. George's Day, and I would like to thank the Hungarian police on behalf of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions for the persistent and persistent work they are doing for the safety of Hungary. I am thinking primarily of border protection tasks, but of course we have seen in the protests of the last few days that, as much as the police have been provoked by George Soros' agents, no matter how much they have been waiting for a slap in the streets in the face of peaceful passers-bys, our police have always acted legally and professionally. Thank you for that. At the borders, our police officers not only guard the safety of Europe and Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people and European culture, but also the refugees who are truly refugees and who are involved in the asylum process, who treat them humanely and humanely, provide them with humane and humane conditions until this procedure is completed. Well, not everyone likes it, not everyone's happy with it. György Soros and his domestic and European agents, for example, are not in their entirety, as they are pursuing a completely different policy. They do not speak for refugees, but they want to flood Hungary and Europe as a whole with illegal immigrants. On the other hand, listening to the opinion of the Hungarian people in the national consultation in 2015 and following it, and expressing 98 percent support in the referendum on 2 October 2016, so that we do not allow illegal immigrants from the West, East or South, we want to handle our affairs ourselves, we want to preserve our national culture, we want to preserve the achievements that have been achieved in the economic, social and wage areas over the last seven years, and therefore we need to protect the country. Well, on the other hand, they would like us to open our borders, they would like to break down the technical and legal barrier that we have been able to build in the last year and a half, which has led us to experience the signs of many illegal immigrations of 10 to 11 thousand a day, either along the border, in border villages, on motorways, international trains or not at the Eastern Railway Station, well, this has been completely stopped, and they would like to take decisions against it. This is why George Soros has travelled to Brussels. The question arises here, however, that we know his motivations, that is to say, the dismantling of the fence, the transit of illegal immigrants, the automatic distribution from the west to the back. But who authorized George Soros that before the Hungarian Prime Minister officially leaves Brussels and negotiates with the Head of the European Union, the European Commission, he will tell us what the European Commission should do about Hungary? Has anyone voted for Soros György here in Hungary? Did anyone entrust this task to represent Hungary's so-called interests? Of course, the answer is no. I think it's very obvious why George Soros is there; it's because he wants to put enormous pressure on the country. So once again, he wants his position, his interests, the interests of a billionaire to prevail in Hungary, against the will of the Hungarian people and against the interests of the Hungarian people. I think that we must stop György Soros, stop Brussels, this is a good opportunity for national consultation. I ask everyone here in Parliament to complete the national consultation sheet. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and assist in the government's resistance work. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: We have heard the speech of the Government of Soros! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the age party.]]
u2017-04-24-18	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2017-04-24-19	Mr President, Dear House, [[Happy Stephen intervenes. Dr. Gábor Staudt: Do you believe that? The president's ringing the bell.]] Clearly, there is a growing pressure in Hungary, and the main reason for this is that more and more people want to change the government's policy in certain strategic areas. These debates affect many areas, from energy prices to tax policy, but the most serious disagreements are really about immigration, so it is worth watching and looking at where we stand. We know that the migration crisis is not easing, we have to look at it permanently, and if we look at Europe as a whole, we see that this part of the world, which we love so much, is still a gateway. It reinforces the situation that the Commission is continuing to think, instead of strengthening the protection of borders, about how to divide the burden between Member States, regardless of their position on the reception of migrants. The main way to spread the burden remains the introduction of quota-based resettlement programmes. In the case of the Hungarian position, the two main foundations remain the consultation two years ago and the referendum last autumn. These Hungarians have made it clear that it is necessary to tighten immigration rules and that they do not want to hear about resettlement quotas. This opinion has been sanctioned by 3.3 million people, despite the fact that both the left and Jobbik have done their best to ensure that many do not participate in this referendum. Despite all this, despite the referendum, the European Commission will still not withdraw the proposal, the proposal for resettlement. As the Commissioner for Migration said recently, there are no objections, all Member States must fulfil their obligations in relation to the distribution of immigrants. You can check it, as the European Commission's chief official said. A decision is soon to be taken in the quota trial, which was launched by the government because Brussels requires the resettlement and immediate resettlement of 1300 immigrants. This decision of 1300 people is based on a one-off decision, but we are well aware that there is also a proposal for a mandatory procedure without an upper threshold, which would otherwise be subject to financial sanctions, so it does not matter at all what the outcome of the quota trial will be, because the procedure for 1300 people could be the immediate hallway of the unlimited resettlement programme. Under these circumstances, honourable Members and ladies, it is absolutely no wonder that the left-wing majority of the European Parliament has again taken out, so to speak, Hungary and launched a full-blown fire on the government, the circus that we have already watched during the debate of the media law or during the debate of the Fundamental Law. Dear House, Just to be clear about the position taken by the European Parliament, which will take Hungary out this week, it is worth looking at the European Parliament resolution adopted a few days ago. This would speed up resettlement, facilitate family reunification, extend the concept of refugees to economic immigrants, thus effectively eliminating Hungary and Europe's defence potential. This report was voted by the representatives of the parties sitting here without any bones, the fact is that the MSZP voted in favour, DK voted in favour, and LMP voted in favour, as well as the representatives from it. Here we would like to call on these parties to inform the public, the Hungarian families, why they voted in favour of this resolution, why they re-supported the resettlement quota. The most scandalous thing is that the representatives of these parties, meanwhile, claim that the issues in the current consultation are not relevant, while they are dealing with these very serious issues. The left is in such a moral state, while Jobbik is also supporting him. They support resettlement in Brussels, deny it to voters at home and mislead Hungarians, that is the case. This could be a day-long disturbance, but instead we are asking all Hungarian citizens to participate in the consultation and to stand up for the government's position, which is about strengthening borders, protecting our communities, and, among other things, to increase transparency among organisations funded from abroad that significantly support immigration. [[12.00]] On behalf of the government, we would like to thank the hundreds of thousands of citizens who have already returned the consultation sheet in the first days. The high willingness to participate shows that the Hungarians know very well that the issue of national independence cannot be the ruin of daily party political considerations. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2017-04-24-21	Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, independent; Zsolt Semjén, KDNP; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Tamás Turgyán, Armenian minority speaker; István Szávay, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Teleki, MSZP.
u2017-04-24-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12 o'clock, we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Advice on child abuse - referring to the Bible? Is it responsible for publishing or distributing books that discuss how to raise children by beating them? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-04-24-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It was recently published in the press that religious publishers were distributing a book with technical advice on how parents should beat their children with educational purposes. The subtitle of the Volume of Children's Education Consultant entitled "The First Seven Years" by the American Author is:, Raising Children with Solid Values and Lovefully Gentleness. Compared to this, there is a separate chapter on the beating of children, where they advise on how and when it is worth effectively beating parents' children. All this by beating up a child in Hungary today, regardless of the physical injuries caused, under the name of a criminal offence, endangerment of a minor, and that is perfectly all right. The press' search revealed that the volume was published by the Advent Publisher. According to the publisher's leader, they only spread the book, and the Scriptures also state that you should not withdraw the rod from your sons. According to the publisher, the Bible says that physical punishment is permitted. When the press member suggested that this was prohibited by law in Hungary, the publisher replied that it was an individual question as to who would take what from it. The Eight Steps Foundation is responsible for the release. The employee of the Foundation refused to answer the questions of the journalist, but asked if it was true that beating the child today is a crime in Hungary. Mr. Secretary. Is that okay? Should such books be published in Hungary, and are there any reviews in Hungary today, what books appear and what these books contain? Is there any supervision of the content of publications that can be published and distributed as a child rearing advisory book? I look forward to your reply to the Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-24-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you pointed out, the publication of this book was published in a completely independent manner, there was no state involvement in this matter, there was no public involvement in schools, there was no presence in kindergartens, no authority in kindergartens, no authority in any kind of community responsibility, no authority in any way, no presence in educational institutions; otherwise, they found this completely independent, private publication that someone created, translated in Hungary and published on the basis of an American sample. At the same time, as you pointed out, all levels of legislation in Hungary, both the legislation at the level of the basic law, the criminal code, the Child Protection Act and the regulations that explain this in detail protect children, protect them from physical danger, protect them from material danger and protect them from any other vulnerability. The protection of children's rights is reflected in the Fundamental Law as a basic principle for justice, criminal law, civil relations and labour law. In Hungary, all forms of physical punishment are forbidden. The last amendment to the Child Protection Act extended the rules on recognition and treatment in this regard, and even before 2014 we adopted a package of proposals on child-friendly justice, which tried to modify both the way victims were heard and the way victims were contacted, so that it would take place in children's language, not causing trauma, for them in the words and ways they knew, in a separate room, which is otherwise arranged in a child's room. As you pointed out, the endangerment of the minor in Btk. is a separate fact, protecting the child's physical, intellectual, moral and emotional development, so I think the legal guarantees are strong. In this publication, since there was no notification or any other act, it did not have to happen, so the government was only informed about the creation of this publication from the press. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-24-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, Jobbik's representative, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long does the Government intend to take advantage of those who receive the care fee? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, All due respect to the people who undertake to take care of their relatives 24 hours a day in their homes, even though those who choose to do so are putting themselves in a very difficult life situation because of domestic conditions and the regulatory system. The settlement of the care fee is an old debt to the government. Although there were promises at the committee meeting, they did not get past the change at the ministerial hearing, a minimum increase or a few discounts. Hungary is at the rate of the prize, which currently amounts to HUF 51,000, far below even the surrounding countries. This is the only income for many of the 12,000 beneficiaries, because often care for a disabled, long-term patient or a dependent in need of care requires a full-time service up to 0-24. Although it is a period of service for the purposes of the pension, they are more disadvantaged than workers, for example, from the point of view of health care. The government is constantly talking about the elimination of large-scale homes and disinheritment. In my opinion, the settlement of the care fee could be a major step forward in this matter. Today, the monthly care of a resident living in a nursing facility is around 100,000 forints. In view of this, it is legitimate that the activity carried out in this way should qualify as an employment relationship, and these people should receive the minimum wage, which, if we take into account the tax deducted, contributions and revenue from consumption, would be net less for the State than for the maintenance of one seat in the State system. Dear Secretary of State, Do you finally wish to correct the situation of those who receive care; and, as in the case of women, will you change your opinion and reform the care fee system in response to the pressure of those affected and to the problem raised by the Jobbik faction? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-28	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-24-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can inform you that every year in recent years, the government has raised and extended the care fee system, and even introduced new and underestimated, but I believe that it has introduced additional benefits that are relevant to those involved. In 2010, the basic care fee was HUF 28 500, while the increased amount was HUF 37 050. Indeed, out of an amount of approximately HUF 30,000, a person who does a full - day care activity is obviously unable to support himself and the well - being, obviously there are other earners in the family. Therefore, in order to be more worthy of these people, the government sought to increase these amounts year after year. First of all, we have created a new category, a priority category, which gives a priority amount in addition to the basic and advanced care premiums. This was no longer HUF 28 500, but HUF 53 100 in the last year. We also tried to raise each of them, almost every time we could, so the basic care fee also increased to HUF 31,000, to HUF 46 500, and the special care fee continued to increase to HUF 55 800. [[12.10]] If we are talking about a serious patient who is cared for at home by his relatives, the amount he receives has increased from HUF 37 050 to HUF 55 800, i.e. by 50 percent in the last seven years. Obviously, everyone would like to raise this amount even higher, and obviously people who are available day and night to care for their family in their own apartment deserve this, but I think that in seven years, no other government has been able to report a 50 percent increase. It is also important that nursing workers, i.e. home nurses, are now entitled to health care, and in retirement age, the time they spend in nursing should be taken into account as a period of service. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. The government would really improve the situation of young people living in the countryside from ten billion? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, at the request of the Minister of Human Resources, by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-04-24-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As the question has been asked, I look forward to your response regarding the objective of the call for a "Home of Chance" in the framework of the operational programme for human resources development in connection with the programme "Széchenyi 2020," which is one of the objectives of the call. This is obviously about rural housing, youth staying in the countryside and improving the chances of young people in rural areas getting housing, but it is obviously very, very difficult to achieve this from a $10 billion framework. Basically, the CSOK also took a very wrong direction, as it helped young people to migrate from rural areas, leaving their homes behind, settle in county towns, perhaps in the capital and in the region of Western Hungary. Nor does this programme seem to be capable of changing this crisis. If the price of a flat is HUF 10 million - significantly higher in a county-righted town, smaller in a ten thousand-sized town - it is still just a thousand apartments, which can be considered at all. Accordingly, we can conclude that this is not a meaningful objective and that, compared to the government's spending on various luxury investments, this budget of 10 billion is quite small and low. There have been many other good ideas that have come up before, including under the government of Fidesz, in József Ángyán's rural development programme, the plan that would have made it possible as a demographic land programme to make a living and make a living with the help of state lands. Unfortunately, these were all bled out in the Fidesz-KDNP system, while this $10 billion framework seems to be a solution, although apparently such small-scale programmes are only good for PR purposes for Fidesz, nothing else. This was the farm development program from which the Moon Street market was developed in District V, and a number of other measures that never reached the target group. My question is what the Fidesz-KDNP government provides to rural young people outside of the debauched rural education, the dead end public work programme and this 10 billion-dollar potential at home. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How do you see a solution to staying in the countryside? [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-24-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we should update your panels, because what you said was dead, for example, the Young Master program, we spend 38 billion forints on it. [[Sallai R. Benedict's intervention.]] [[Sallai R. Benedict's intervention.]] You talked about why the farm program on Moon Street is supported by the government. You support, honourable Member, that what is produced on the farm should be sold where to create a market for it. (Sallai R. Benedict's intervention. ) These are demagogic sentences, which can be said, Mr honourable Member, but if you count on the support of voters, or your fellow parties who will be running for election in 18, they will also count on the support of voters who will consider these sentences and look behind the numbers, then they will certainly be disappointed here in you. But I could tell you a lot of other programs: the Youth Guarantee programme, which will help young people to find their place with HUF 178 billion; the government will spend HUF 25 billion on young people to become entrepreneurs; the government will spend HUF 27 billion on internships. They're all helpful. This HUF 10 billion programme is also important, as it helps young people aged 18-35 in smaller settlements in less developed regions, they can start their own lives on the ground, and they also want to help their housing. By the way, this is a good debate, honourable Member, because we are talking about what 10 billion is going to be spent on and what 100 billion is going to be spent on by the government. In previous times, it was more about where he was divorcing, not about what he was spending. The college development programme is also important, which can be implemented by 193 billion forints by 2023; the CSOK, which is an open budget from above, has already received 101 billion forints for young family members since July 2015; the tax relief of young married people can also help many; and I could mention that in 2017 we are now spending 1741 billion forints on support for families, which is obviously also helping to thrive locally, which is 42.7 percent higher than in 2010. I think the CSOK and the others know how to stay put. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] guarantee both farmers, entrepreneurs and young workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bene, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: in 2017 another national screening programme will be launched. Congresswoman Bene Ildikó has the floor.
u2017-04-24-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The risk of malignancies in the colon and rectum is rapidly increasing with increasing age and doubling every five years from the age of 60. Both the number of new tumors discovered each year - more than 10,000 people - and the number of deaths caused - which is nearly 5,000 people per year - are the second most common cancer in our country, both among women and among men. However, this tumor is highly curable early on, but unfortunately, patients typically seek medical attention at an advanced stage, so mortality is extremely high in our country as well. The objective set out in the Healthcare Sectoral Strategy of Health Health in Hungary 2014-2020 is, among other things, a continuous improvement in the health status of the Hungarian population, an increase in the years of health, and an improvement in patients' chances of recovery. Further serious steps are needed to achieve these objectives in the field of public health. One important element of this is the implementation of complex screening programmes and the strengthening of prevention. This is why I consider it of great importance that, following many years of pilot testing, a targeted double-yearly thick and rectum screening of women and men between 50 and 70 years of age will be launched in a national extension from September with the participation of GPs. This is a two-stage method, the first is a fecal blood test, the positivity of which involves a full-quality colonoscopy to determine the source of bleeding. Dear Secretary of State, In order to achieve a 20 percent reduction in mortality due to colon and rectal cancer over ten years, more than 50 percent of those involved need to undergo screening tests. How is it possible for GPs to join the program as much as possible? How can screening activity be increased among the population? And since the screening programme is designed for many years, as part of the complex filter programme, is the continued funding of the programme ensured? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2017-04-24-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-24-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you have quoted, it is an important public health priority for the government, a priority area for the prevention of people's diseases, so that cancer deaths can be reduced in Hungary. I think all good people agree on that. It is also important to have already developed screening tests, including biennial breast screening for women aged between 45 and 65 years and repeated cervical screening every three years for women aged between 25 and 65 years. I think it's important to take precautions in both cases. In addition, large and rectum screening tests have been under preparation for years. Here there were pilot projects in different counties, but now the major national screening study is also launched; obviously, in the lessons learned from previous years, one took place in one county and the other three counties. Unfortunately, 5,000 people lose their lives every year as a result of colon and rectal cancer, and 10,000 new diseases are registered in Hungary. According to many of the research, this is the second most common cancer deaths in Hungary. That is why in 2017 the screening was started in the form of biannual colon and rectal screening, as the Member mentioned. This is also a significant development for domestic primary care, domestic health care and domestic public health programmes. As has already been said, between 50 and 70 years of age can take part in these screening tests. So far, tests have been carried out through GPs and will continue to be done. The participation of GPs has been voluntary, 2624 GP practices have volunteered, this is 51.63 percent of GPs, so most GPs have already volunteered to do this and carry out these tests. In the future, when this project is completed, the basic health care tasks include colon screening and rectal screening. But we want to encourage you to participate as much as possible with a communication campaign, printed electronic communications, press releases, media appearances, public forums, press public events. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.20]]
u2017-04-24-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask a question to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister: instead of a national consultation, an international insult? Or how long will the government lie to Hungarians about Brussels? It's an address. Congressman István Józsa has the floor.
u2017-04-24-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, I'm very sorry your minister isn't here, although you may have more to do with the fiction they're making up. It is surprising to us that, while the government is pushing the anti-EU campaign a thousand times, it is doing everything in its power to distribute the money from Brussels, it is using EU funds as widely as possible. At the same time, he wants to stop Brussels in the framework of the national consultation and in the posters. But how are you going to stop Brussels? It seems that, despite all the effort with this consultation, ten times as many have not responded to these incomprehensible questions as ever before. It seems that people are tired of these controversial things. Mr. Secretary, is it not a contradiction that, while European money is coming to the country with plenty of money, you are conducting an anti-EU campaign? I think that's what people saw, and they don't believe what you're telling them. I ask you, does the Conservative People's Party, which is now in the majority in Brussels, not sympathize with you, this stopping act? How do you deal with your own party family in Brussels, when you look at these issues, that they claim that certain EU regulations can force Hungary to abolish the reduction of the rent? I know this electricity market directive. There's no such thing as a five-year transition. Which regulations do you think are attacking the Hungarian tax reduction? The one used to introduce special taxes? I agree with you that it is a moral issue to judge the European Union's policy and that it is a moral issue to speak the truth. I ask you to restore the truth. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-04-24-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman! As far as the number of consultations is concerned, it is enough to say that the number of respondents increased by 52 thousand in one day and the willingness to participate is constantly increasing. I do not recommend that you consider the new website of Jobbik's owner when you make your point of view. I am pleased, by the way, that you are raising this question, because I see that the MSZP is drilling consultation with every means, just as it drilled the referendum last autumn. The issue of energy prices is included in the consultation sheet because there is a proposal in Brussels, and you know it, too, which would remove the right to set prices from the hands of the Member States. This is very risky because with such a step, large multi-company companies would benefit. Look at the example in Romania. There, for example, in the gas market, it is precisely because of liberalisation that a price increase must now be made. Tax policy is included in the consultation because there are many sides to the Hungarian tax system. For example, they attacked the fact that the corporate income tax decreased uniformly to 9 percent. For example, look at what the German Minister for Economic Affairs has said or what the Austrian Chancellor has said about this. But I also suggest that you follow up on the country-specific reports and recommendations in Brussels. There are tough criticisms in this, among other things, of the one-key tax, in the case of family taxation. Brussels is also attacking the reduction of VAT on the Internet. I'm not even talking about how Brussels bureaucrats tangled the bank special tax or the advertising tax. You can also remember the debates on this. Look at the records from that time. You left out a very important question from your list. This is the issue of immigration, which is covered by a number of issues in the consultation. It is no coincidence that you missed it because your representatives in Brussels have voted several times in favour of a resolution that supports resettlement programmes. So let me ask you this: how does it feel for the MSZP to support the quota in Brussels, to deny it here and to mislead voters? At least 3.3 million people are waiting for an answer. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Fidesz slavery in the service of the multinationals? It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér has the floor.
u2017-04-24-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz government continues to serve the multinationals instead of the interests of the Hungarian people. That's exactly what Fidesz's two skinning moves prove. One is the draft submitted by Erik Bánki, already called the Slave Law. Many people have said this today, but let's see what this is about. On the one hand, they would change the working time framework to 36 months, which would allow companies to arbitraryly drag people's working time for years, which could completely upset workers' privacy and create inhuman working conditions. But it is also outrageous that, according to the amendment, on an average of 8 hours a week, they can basically spend free overtime on employees, i.e. basically working on the return of the Communist Saturday serving the multinationals. The other pep rallying step has been going on since 2012, since Fidesz abolished early retirement, since there has been an increasing tension between people working in different industries. As a result, pension experts and trade unions have been demanding a review of the system for years, but their demands have so far been deaf from the government. With the abolition of the early retirement pension, the government is also on the side of the multinationals, as in 2014 companies ceased to pay 13 percent of the additional contributions, which they then swallowed up nicely, while the workers received nothing but their health damage. So I would ask you to come to your senses and, as you have been forced to do in the case of slave laws, sit at the negotiating table with the unions on the issue of early retirement, and listen to them, because there may be insurmountable consequences to this system. By the way, we will survive until the 2018 change of government, but Hungarian workers may not be so patient. So the question is: why are workers treated like slaves? Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2017-04-24-44	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I would like to ask Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-24-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I cannot suggest it to you, so if you comment, please read the subject of your comment carefully, and you are not wrong as you have done in these two minutes, which you have put forward as a question. I would first like to respond to the first part of your thoughts. I would like to talk to you about the bill that was or would be about extending the duration of the working time limit. If you had read the proposal carefully, you would have seen that nothing would have happened if this had been adopted, than that the 12-month timeframe would have been extended to 36 months by law and allowed to be extended to 36 months. Otherwise, if there were to be too much work, of course, this would be given to the employee either by overtime or by accounting. Nothing would change substantially compared to the law and workers' working time management, which is currently included in the Labour Code. However, a very, very important guarantee has been built in. This guarantee would have meant that if the employee and the advocacy organisation had concluded the agreement within the framework of a collective agreement, they would only be able to make use of the time frame and its application. If this agreement does not exist, of course you cannot use it. Therefore, no negative measures could have been taken to the detriment of workers. [[12.30]] I must also reject the assumption that nothing has happened and that nothing will happen in the other case. Based on the principle of health protection, the main direction for the development of the new system is to avoid and reduce damage [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] These negotiations are ongoing between employers and employees with the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why does the government fail the Rákoshegyi? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-04-24-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the wording of my question, I would like to recall the sentences of the Minister for National Development during his hearing in our committee:. I can tell you, Mr President, that from 1 January we will have the National Transport Authority as an authority, and I can promise you that on 1 January, after taking over, but at the latest - and I ask my colleagues to make a note - I will give you a substantive answer in writing by 31 March on whether the level of air pollution and noise pollution in Crab Hill can be reduced. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This has not taken place since then, and I have not received an answer from the Minister, which is why I have been forced to bring the question to the walls of Parliament about what will happen to the people of Crab Hill. In Hungary, the vast majority of air traffic flows are carried out by Liszt Ferenc Airport, one of the largest airports in Central Europe, but does not regularly request renewal and expansion permits, but implements its expansions on the basis of maintenance. Accordingly, the people of Crab Hill, where the vast majority of air traffic is now listed, and partly the people of Kőbánya, who benefit from the noise effects and other environmental impacts, complain to a considerable extent, and not only us, the Committee for Sustainable Development, but indeed the pro-government mayor, have already turned to the Minister in writing to find a solution. Unfortunately, there is no answer to the solution at this time. The legislation in this area has been softened, but those laws are not respected by the maintenance, and it is therefore possible that all noise effects, night traffic bans and all related regulations will effectively increase passenger traffic and thus noise effects. Accordingly, I would like to know when the government will finally ensure a normalization of the situation. They do not need to think; the local government experts of the districts concerned, local organisations and several court documents have made a detailed proposal on what to do, so there is no need for you to think about it. The documents are ready. Yet whose interest it is that no action is taken [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And when is that expected? I expect your answer to that with respect. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-24-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As promised by the Minister, in February 2016, the airport's decision to designate a protection zone for noise protection has become final, which will, among other things, ensure the noise protection of the people of Crabokhegy. In relation to noise protection itself, and as you have said, in the immediate vicinity of one of the most important international airports in Central Europe, there must be some kind of impact. It is obvious that by limiting traffic time, limiting or banning night flights, marking take-off directions, determining take-off cornering angles, noise pollution can and has been affected. So the government wouldn't let down or let down the people of Crab Hill. These noise protection measures include, as I said, the restriction of traffic during a critical period of night operations over Budapest, the use of environmentally sound flight modes, runway use, the construction of a noise dampening engine test site, the reduction of the radiation brake and the introduction of quieter machines at all. In the case of an airport surrounded by a city, this is a task for transport professionals all over the world. Today, in the Hungarian circumstances, we try to ensure the protection of the inhabitants of the Ferihegy area as far away as possible. At the same time, however, there is no doubt that the renovation started on 13 March 2017 and runs until June 2017 and the renovation of track 1 is causing problems, so until the summer of this year [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We ask for the patience and understanding of the people who live there. [[The president's ringing again.]] Then these problems will be reduced. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-50	Thank you, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture what measures will the Government help the development of nature travel? It's an address. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor.
u2017-04-24-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the challenges facing the government is to improve the health of our citizens. It is a well-known tool to promote healthy lifestyles, in particular by promoting leisure activities. As we have seen over the past few years, the government has been particularly supportive not only of leading sports but also of mass sports, as it provides an excellent opportunity to exercise and to preserve health. One of these activities, which, unfortunately, has been a little behind us over the past 30-40 years, is the nature walk, which has great traditions in Hungary and in my narrower Patria, in Abaúj and Zemplén, hugged with mountains. We can see that the government has already done a lot for the cause: they have built viewers, renovated tourist houses, key houses and tourist signals within the framework of the programme, which is accessible in Hungary. In Zemplén, for example, Északerdő Zrt. You're doing an excellent job on this. A visible example of this is the reconstruction of the Károlyi Lookout under the Great Milic. Dear Secretary of State, In my constituency, in Zemplén, the route of the National Blue Tour ends in Hollóháza, which is now legendary, 1169 km long. Many of us may still remember Pál Rockenbauer, a million a step to his movie entitled "Hungary" thanks to which the wonderful landscapes of Abaúj and Zemplén were visited by thousands of tourists with boots. Unfortunately, these roads have become very worn out today. The difficult approach to hiking stages, the absence of accommodations, is still a major challenge for hikers. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what measures will be taken by the government in the future in order to further develop the landscape. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Abaúj and Zemplén and, of course, the whole country. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay.
u2017-04-24-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It is indeed a subject that is very well - known and acknowledged among hikers. It can be observed that the importance of boot tourism is growing again and is accompanied by a quality requirement. It's not that we didn't have it before, but we tended to group things in our own right, so that those who were hiking tend to have lower budget families and lower accommodation requirements, but today this has changed, and a lot of people who are trying to raise higher demands are also fond of nature. To this end, we have developed various public welfare functions worth more than HUF 15 billion in the last five years, from the observatory through the small railway, which alone represent HUF 1-1 billion items, to the easiest tourist route painting, such as the Blue Tour route, the precise design of it, along with the Association for Nature Walking; 40 new lookout points, 16 new accommodations, 9 forest schools. These have all been invested in the last few years. What is also important is that he became a government commissioner for cycling, active recreation. It is his job to provide as much space as possible for cycling tourism with our cooperation. In addition to booty tourism, it is important to mention horse tourism, cycling tourism or even various motorbike tourism. All of these have a very serious development potential, whether in your region or in other parts of the country. I would particularly like to highlight, where appropriate, developments in the lowland, which are absolutely novel, since in previous decades we have concentrated mainly on mountain systems. [[12.40]] So, you mentioned a very big job. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And I am pleased to be able to report on such great improvements. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-54	Thank you, Secretary Bitay. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the road between Szeged-Kübekháza be renovated and how far will the road renovations in Szeged affect? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2017-04-24-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The public roads are in very poor condition, and we are talking not only about the side roads connecting individual settlements, but also about the three-digit, two-digit main roads. I believe that immediate intervention is needed to ensure safe transport. Although county road operators perceive these problems, they always say that when we ask if there is not enough money to renovate. I note here in parentheses that there has been so much pointless investment in Hungary over the past period that I think that perhaps the government should focus on investments and improvements in human life that will deliver safe transport, whether from the budget or from EU funds. Beauty patch: I read in the local newspaper last week that in Csongrád county, including Szeged, there will be an overall 23.5 kilometers of road repair this year, which proves to be very limited in terms of the state of Csongrád county roads. Focusing primarily on my own area, I read that on the Szeged section of Route 47, which affects Attila József Avenue, and there will be mechanical potholeing on Csongrád Avenue, but it did not reveal the extent of the renovation. And there's a very critical section, the Grand Boulevard, in front of Mars Square, where there's no renovation at all. There is also no indication that between Szeged and Kübekháza, which, according to county road operators, is the worst road in Csongrád county, is being renovated in the near future, as busses are already moving at a limited speed on that road. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State when the road section between Szeged-Kübekháza will be renovated, and the extent to which the state renovations within the administrative area of Szeged will affect this year, especially with regard to the Nagykörút, József Attila Avenue and Csongrád Avenue. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-24-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-24-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to improving the state of the national road network. This year, the complex road renovation program with a 100 billion HUF project list started in 2016. The planning and implementation of the projects are currently under preparation. In the framework of this, it was planned to renovate some 53 kilometers of roads in Csongrád county, on the main route 5 of which, in the interior of Szeged, between Kossuth Lajos Avenue and Kálvária Avenue. During the 2014-2020 programming period, the operational programme for territorial and urban development offers the possibility of refurbishing the state-owned side roads worth HUF 44 billion. In Csongrád County, as you mentioned, there are more than 23 kilometers to be renovated. The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. for five years, he signed a contract with the State of approximately HUF 400 billion, which will enable him to perform the maintenance and operation tasks of the national road network in a more predictable and high-quality way. Zrt. plans for major repairs on several sections of the road, including in the interior of Szeged. Machine potholeing is expected at certain sections of Attila József and Csongrád Avenue and Nagykörút; public transport stops are also renovated, at the Diófa Restaurant on Csongrád Avenue, on the Paris Körút at Madách utca node, on the Roman körút at the Gál utca node. Further sections of the road, including the connection road 4302, Szeged-Kübekháza, will be renovated in the following years. Thank you for asking, thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-58	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the minister of the national economy:. Where are the jobs that ensure a decent living? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2017-04-24-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As a member of the Parliament of Szentgotthárd, born in Körmend, I would unfortunately be able to answer my question with one word: Austria. Of course, I expect a longer and meaningful answer from the Secretary of State. But not only me, but also those living in the areas of Körmend, Szentgotthárd, Vasvár, Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter, as the situation of workers in Vas county has not improved in recent years. Jobs are closing down around the world, there is great uncertainty about Opel, Vasvár and around it is still the biggest problem, but the situation is not much better in the area of Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter, and the prospectless future of small villages and small settlements would be worth a separate oral question. With regard to my hometown, Körmend, the Fidesz city administration constantly refers to strong government support, but this does not show up in the expansion of job opportunities. In the case of our city, Szentgotthárd, with some positive developments to be acknowledged, the question marks are unfortunately increasing, especially with regard to the biggest employer, Opel, we would expect more from the government than the propaganda presented by Péter Szijjártó, and we should guarantee that there will be no redundancies in the coming years. In 2010, Fidesz promised to provide a million new jobs for Hungarians, but they forgot to add that they were thinking about public work and working abroad. A large proportion of the people on the western border are still forced to commute to Austria, and I did not even mention the Anti-Employment and Family Labour Code, the revision of which will be one of the first tasks of the Jobbik Government, which was established in 2018. The catastrophic state of local sidewalks, roads, lack of job opportunities, deteriorating health care, difficulties in public transport and limited cultural, sporting and entertainment opportunities, are characteristic of the daily lives of the Rába region, the Guard or Vasi-Hegyhát, which will be followed by the people, including the Vas County Party, to change Jobbik for the future, bringing about the European wage union, which represents a gradual and substantial wage catch. Dear Secretary of State, I expect a clear answer to my direct question: will the jobs in the region be protected and employment opportunities extended in the southern part of Vas county? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Bana. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-24-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, That is what we have done so far, in answer to the last question, Mr President, because the results that we have achieved together with Hungarian society, together with the Hungarian economy, prove this. His question is surprising, among other things, because we are talking about one of the best regions in the country's labour market, whose economic performance is significantly higher than the national average, mainly since 2010. But not only per capita GDP has grown dynamically, but employment has improved accordingly and county wages have also increased significantly. In rural Hungary, the highest employment rate is in Vas County, the 70.3 percent employment rate in the last quarter of 2016 is significantly higher than the EU average, which is 66,9 percent, while unemployment is only 2 percent. In your county, it can be said that the full employment has actually been achieved. The average of the county gross wages exceeded HUF 240 thousand last year, the net real earnings of employees increased by 25.5 percent between 2010 and 16 in the county with family benefits. This means that in six years, the purchasing power of the workers in Vas County improved by the quarter. We expect that the region will continue to play its part in the development and development of the coming years, as agreed in the multiannual agreement with the social partners, and if it is fulfilled, a further 40% increase in real wages will be expected in the six years ahead, which, of course, will mean a significant increase in wages in Vas County, in the light of the performance of the people there. The ideas that you have repeatedly waved and waved as promises, and those vague ideas cannot, of course, be realised in themselves, but always in the light of an economic environment. I'm asking you to accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2017-04-24-62	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why does the government want to contribute to the poisoning of Hungarian people? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-04-24-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am truly sorry that our fellow Member Bene Ildikó is no longer here, because he has drawn attention today in a very instructive speech before the agenda to increase the proportion of cancers affecting the gastrointestinal tract, and that is what we are talking about here. Please allow me, Mr President, to make one quote on this issue. The European Food Safety Authority's report has just been published in Hungarian, which shows that 47 percent of European food is contaminated with pesticide residues, and 2.8 percent of samples - which does not seem to be much - still represent 2366 products - do not comply with the standards on the continent and are guaranteed to be toxic. Following this report, the question arises that the Fidesz-KDNP still has the myth that without a plant protection product or without the substances with the current known active substances there is no agriculture and that it still seems to stand for the marketing of glyphosate in Europe. These pesticides and similar substances cause the death of approximately 200,000 people a year at national level, and the use of pesticides is associated with the development of tumours, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, hormonal disorders, malformations and infertility. The report proposes that not only the use of plant protection products should be regulated in international treaties, but that steps should be taken towards sustainability, including the reduction of pests by natural means, crop rotation, opportunities for organic cultivation, and consideration should be given to the possibility of achieving land-free agriculture. In Hungary, Monsanto has put some legislation in the pen, and unfortunately, the government has already represented the interests of the giant company. I'm asking you if there's any real change in this. Can it be expected that, given the proportion of cancers, you might consider the position of our country in the European Union and advocate a European ban on glyphosate? I look forward to your reply. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-24-64	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-04-24-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, At the beginning of my reply, we should come to an agreement, the agreement that the Hungarian government and I think any other decision-maker can rely on nothing but the data of different laboratories. Because if we question these laboratory data, we're committing a huge crime, because then we won't have objective testing, we won't have objective reference options. And this is an unfair suggestion against Hungary, precisely because Hungary is very careful on this issue, because today only in areas that are suitable for seed production are allowed to operate on about 10 thousand hectares, not elsewhere. So it can't be more widespread. At the same time, I want you to listen to me. In June 2016, the Commission decided, on its own initiative, to temporarily extend the approval of glyphosate. In addition to the temporary extension, the Commission, assisted by the Member States, decided to discontinue the marketing of glyphosate preparations containing the excipient sebamine. In Hungary, the National Food Chain Safety Office has withdrawn the authorisation of 24 products containing glyphosate-active substances due to its sebamine content. The authorisations for glyphosate preparations not containing sebamine ancillary substances shall be valid until the second half of 2017, when a decision on renewal of the active substance is taken at Union level. Data on the hazard classification of the active substance have been evaluated by the European Chemicals Agency. I would like to draw your attention here to a very big problem: as a result of this evaluation, on 15 March 2017, you issued your opinion on the active substance glyphosate, according to which glyphosate is a substance with non-carcinogenic, non-mutagenic and non-reprotoxic properties. Taking into account the proposal for classification of the European Chemicals Agency, the Commission shall decide by 31 December 2017 at the latest to withdraw or renew the marketing authorisation for this substance. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-66	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: - Is our past worth so much? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-04-24-67	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to draw your attention to a local problem. Not a very pleasant picture of those arriving from the north to Paks on Route 6. The building standing there, owned by the MÁV, once seen better days, is a railway museum and its environment is in a catastrophic state. In the hope that the situation would somehow be resolved, local residents contacted the authorities on the telephone number posted by the MÁV. They have succeeded in achieving results, but not what the residents would expect in such a situation. The problem has not been solved, only the notification number has disappeared from the building, where you can find out who to look for in such cases, how to solve this problem. More effective and effective - this is how Minister Miklós Seszták described MÁV in 2015. However, the MÁV seems to have become more effective in one thing: the elimination of problems and the elimination of telephone numbers. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State where the residents of Paks should turn for a meaningful solution. What should be done to ensure that the former museum railway station building is not destroyed? Can you promise me and the residents of Paks that they will soon repair this property and its environment worthy of a better fate, so that it doesn't look like it is now, and if the residents arrive to Paks from the north on Route 6, they will see that a beautiful building looks and smiles back on them? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-24-68	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-24-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The building in question was previously listed as a locomotive colour, and the building is currently not protected by national, local or rail protection. At one time, this really worked as a temporary railway museum. Congresswoman can't remember, as I recall, Tibor Szamuely's armored train had a track storage, i.e. a service building. At the same time, the MÁV, where the building was otherwise returned in 2015, has improved the roof structure and the shell, but does not want to maintain an installation that has become redundant for the purpose of operating the track and performing the public service tasks. I see no obstacle to that - and, if you will allow me, I suggest to the locals too - that if the municipality wishes to take over the property, the MÁV will be willing to hand it over, I will also provide the necessary assistance for it myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-70	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the Digital Welfare Basic Package promised last November be finally available? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of the Minister who manages the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, Antal Rogán, who is responsible and competent on the subject, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Farkas.
u2017-04-24-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last November, Tamás Deutsch, Minister for Digital Welfare, promised to launch the basic package of the digital well-being, i.e. the most expensive internet package, by January of this year. In January, there was already March data on the possibility of this, and as you can see, it didn't turn out to be anything either. In the middle of March, it has now changed the start of the Internet package originally planned for November last year, but it seems that this will not be possible either. Istova is a six-month delay, and the reason for that is incomprehensible. Tamás Deutsch is either unfit to perform his assigned task, or the government is not really interested in digital prosperity. However, there is no question that cheap internet access is a foundation with which the government has long been indebted, since it is part of the 21st century. This is an essential instrument in the face of centuries of challenges. As is known, Jobbik has been initiating for three years to ensure free internet access in the form of a limited basic package. This should be a fundamental right, since the Internet is no longer a luxury item, but a common usage tool, most people are almost a part of their daily livelihood and are the main means of accessing information. Moreover, Jobbik's proposal is in line with the EU target, which requires all EU citizens to have access to high-speed internet connections with a bandwidth of at least 30 megabits by 2020. In addition, the fact of digital illiteracy, which is clearly a serious problem in the PISA surveys, must also be faced. [[13.00]] According to some estimates, there are at least two million people in Hungary today who do not use the Internet. This is certainly because they do not have the opportunity, or because of digital illiteracy. In any case, a XXI. This is the problem that the government of the century has to face. Dear Secretary of State, Based on all of this, I ask what will happen to the promised digital well-being and basic package. What's the reason for the delay? Is there, and to what extent, the amount of deployment costs due for investments in network development available? Can the government meet this EU target by 2020? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-72	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-04-24-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Forgive the government for not leading its policy out of Jobbik's proposals, especially because Jobbik is overwriting these proposals. Still, I have to say, it's rare to agree with Jobbik on something. However, I feel that we agree that the cheaper internet and the Internet are of fundamental interest to as many people as possible, to everyone. The current government steps and measures stem from the previous consultation on the Internet. There were tens of thousands of people involved in this. On this basis, the government has decided, among other things, to reduce the VAT on the Internet to 18%, regardless of whether the EU is attacking this step. As one of the following steps, you will soon be able to use the reduced digital well-being package, the price included in this package should be at least 15 percent lower than the subscription fee offered by that service provider with the same conditions and with similar parameters. For the service providers, I would like to tell you that the call for proposals is expected to be published at the end of May. The benefits of the discount package will also be strengthened by the VAT reduction, according to the government's plans, the VAT on the Internet will be reduced to 5 percent from next January. Thanks to this step, and thanks to the basic package, users will be able to feel a 20% reduction in costs. Honourable Congressman, I see you're very fond of the Internet case. If that is the case, I ask you to ask the President of Jobbik for permission, make an exception to you so that he can vote in favour of next year's budget and tax laws, because it will include VAT cuts. I am only saying this separately because Gábor Vona did not vote in favour of the proposals on tax reductions at the end of last year. You now have the opportunity to correct this in a small part. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-74	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Does the government intend to reduce or do not intend to reduce the high school framework numbers? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-04-24-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 6 April 2016, László Palkovics, State Secretary for Education, said in Szombathely that the admission to secondary school would be mandatory in a system that has been going up since 2019. The idea is that the system would work in the same way as in higher education, so it would be centrally determined how many students can be admitted to high school in one year, how many vocational schools and how many secondary schools. Mr. Secretary. István Ikotity himself did not answer several of my fellow Members in Parliament's questions or speeches about the government's intention to reduce the number of high school seats. I would now like to have a specific answer to this question. I ask you a very simple question: would the government like to see students studying more or less in high school? Will there be more or less room in high school? What is the government's intention? What measures are to be taken in relation to high school seats? Does the government intend to reduce or do not intend to reduce the high school framework numbers? Yes or no? Thank you.
u2017-04-24-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Bence Retvári to answer the question.
u2017-04-24-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The fact that a question is often asked does not make sense and the statement in it does not become real. Of course, the government is not planning to cut any kind of high school framework, as there are no such frames, honourable Member. Everyone's access must be determined by their knowledge. If you hit a level where you can continue to study in high school, and from there you will have almost a straight way to college, because in our view, the high school is a kind of hallway for the university, who hits this level, of course you can continue to study in high school, and who doesn't get into high school, we have expanded the opportunity to get a degree in vocational training and learn more. So, honourable Member, I ask you and your fellow Members, who ask you this week after week, not to ask you again, because the government has made it clear that only individual performance affects who can learn where and how. And it comes from the flexibility of the new system that there are more ways and ways to get a diploma and then even a higher education degree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do you need to do this now? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2017-04-24-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, My question will be: which churches have agreed to cooperate with to carry out public tasks? To justify my question, I must mention that the audience of Nyíregyháza, as well as the teachers, students and parents of the institution, received the news with great surprise that the Greek Catholic Church is the only institution in the county that is primarily engaged in medical training. Parents have voted with overwhelming majority that they do not want this solution. Not that you're really interested in that, because, in my memory, when the primary school of the birch church college was separated from the institution and thrown to the KLIK, parents, children and educators protested on the street, there was just no one to talk to them. The local representative of Fidesz simply vanished into thin air for this period. Of course, this is not a national consultation; it is not a question of false questions to be answered by letter; it is a question of talking to people, as is not usually the case. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We are talking about one institution in the county that is training health professionals, and there is not much in the region. I don't really see the social need for a church to run this one institution, or why the church thinks it should train health professionals. The question is therefore justified because, while the number of ecclesiastical institutions has increased by 68 percent over the past period - of course, which the state has handed over to them - the number of foundations has decreased by 20 percent. I think it is quite striking if I add how many such institutions are currently in Budapest during the handover or trial. I have therefore put my question, Mr Secretary of State. Of course, I'm also asking about the title of what this is all about. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-04-24-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, it is very easy for you to be informed, too, because legislation and legislation regulates the timetable for transposition. On the one hand, churches are entitled, by virtue of the law, to establish a public education institution or to take over. Of course, there were governments that only cared so much about schools that they could push their maintainers into debt. But turning to this question, as I said, the Church has the opportunity to establish and adopt both the right to maintain, in addition to the rules that are accessible and public to everyone. In such cases, an opinion procedure shall be carried out. In the context of the opinion procedure, the staff community should be consulted, the school board should be consulted, the opinion of the parental organisation should be sought, and the school student council should also be consulted. If more than half of the parents are in favour of a maintenance change, then the ministry will allow this. However, churches generally provide for stricter rules for themselves. After all, there are maintainers, some dioceses that do not live up to half of the parents, but usually demand that they take over an institution when two thirds of the parents ask that the church take over the operation of that school. With such stricter rules, the large-scale transfer, i.e. far from the previous periods, has been carried out by means of church maintenance, church operation, with the request of institutions, parents, students, teachers and everyone else. I would also like to say that in cases where there was insufficient support, the Ministry rejected these requests in all cases. There were some where the level of support was in place, but for other reasons the Ministry said that the institution should be held in a state bond. What has come over from your speech, honourable Member, is not well-meaning concern, but rather a solid antichurch. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. István Tukacs laughs.]] [[13.10]]
u2017-04-24-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice... [[István Tukacs:...not anti-church!]] Congressman, please. [[István Tukacs: Understood, Mr President.]] Dear Parliament, The question goes as follows:. Who ordered the surprising amendments to the new law of attorney? Mr Staudt Gábor has the floor.
u2017-04-24-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Madam Secretary! Recently, the press discussed for a long time who could benefit from the envisaged change to the new law on lawyers, which would ease the rules of conflict of interest so far. On the basis of the draft, lawyers could carry out management tasks in the future, of which the management of a public limited company would not be an exception. There were speculations in the press that a lawyer would definitely benefit from the change, namely Balázs Kertész, who had recently had to resign from his position as CEO when his conflicting position was made public. Of course, it can be a coincidence, as it is in all our countries, but one thing is certain: there must be someone who invented this change and put it in the proposal. The article of the Hungarian Nemzet was responded by the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office with surprising speed, and they explained that they did not agree with the amendment. It would have been more comforting, though, if Antal Rogán himself had signed the announcement, because his name and his circle of friends were also addressed in the press. So the Cabinet Office's response to this case is not satisfactory. In the Communication, they also added that they would propose to the government that the original legislation be maintained. The press also asked László Réti, President of the Budapest Bar Association, who clearly explained that during the discussions the law firm did not ask for these changes. For the sake of the above, I ask the Secretary of State to give a clear answer: who ordered the facilitation of the conflict of interest rules of the law, i.e. how did this extraordinary change proposal come into the draft? I am also interested in your personal opinion as to whether the need for this amendment will continue to be maintained in the current situation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Secretary Mariann Water East answers the question. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The preparation of the draft law enforcement work has been under way since spring 2016 within the codification working group set up for this purpose in the Ministry. During codification, we conducted the widest possible social consultation. In October 16, we published the thesis of the new draft on the government's website and examined the opinions received in detail. We have also consulted several representatives of the chambers of attorneys and various groups of counsels. The draft was drawn up in close cooperation with the representatives of the chambers of lawyers. The purpose of the rules on conflicts of interest is to ensure an independent, non-influenced procedure in the performance of a lawyer's activities. Therefore, conflict of interest rules do not restrict themselves for the sake of self, but rather, and in so far as this is necessary for the maintenance and independence of a lawyer's activities. The regulation of conflicts of interest in the draft is multi-level, some activities are already prohibited, such as employment and public service relations, and there are also a number of exceptions to the existing employment ban, mainly because there is a significant need for lawyers' legal expertise in the field of work that is not considered to be strictly a lawyer's activity. The draft does not simply modify the scope of these exceptions, but uses a completely new approach, subject to the planned integration of legal advisers. I note that as a result of the social consultation, the provisions of the draft on the scope of exceptions have been clarified. As a second level of conflict of interest regulation, the draft introduces new rules on conflict of interest [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] precisely because the regulation of conflicts of interest makes the rules on conflicts of interest even more stringent. In answer to your question, no one. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-86	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What does the CEU chief negotiator do? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of 2014, you destroyed the diplomatic lines of foreign affairs by releasing hundreds of experienced diplomats. This destruction has had serious consequences, and the government has just run into a terrible slap in the face of the CEU case. At the same time, you have been able to challenge the entire civilized world, including the American government, the German Chancellor and the leading individuals in the academic life of the world, but even their own party family, the European People's Party. For the sake of your propaganda steels, the United States will not change its constitutional practice, which proves that you are unfit for our country's foreign representation. The Orbán government is now undermining its own Deputy State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Kristóf Altusz, who has been appointed as an agent to conduct international negotiations on the CEU. Washington, on the other hand, refuses to sit down with Altus and instead sends him to Nádor Street, CEU, to negotiate. The President of the European Commission will lobby the meeting on 29 April to expel Fidesz from the European People's Party. And indeed, what is a party doing there, for example, sending the only written congratulations to Erdoğan on Easter in the EU, in secret, to complete his electoral fraud possession? Mr Secretary, I would like answers to the following questions. What are the plans of Christopher Altusz? With whom are you going to negotiate a settlement with the CEU if the U.S. representatives at federal level refuse to do so in the absence of powers? I would also like to know how you appreciate the international welcome of the government's CEU amok run. What damage do you think has been done to Western investors by this scandal that seriously destroys our country's image? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-04-24-88	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-24-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to inform you that there is no CEU chief negotiator. Mr Kristóf Altusz is the prime minister responsible for the negotiations on international universities. I would also like to inform you that the Hungarian law clearly states what conditions international universities have to meet, and the Prime Minister's Commissioner is negotiating accordingly, of course. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that education is also a Member State competence within the European Union. The aim of the democratically elected Hungarian Parliament's decision is to ensure that all universities operate under the same conditions, no one can have any privileges, not even the University of György Soros. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, have you finally given up on children with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties? Why don't you want to give them the right quality education? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2017-04-24-91	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The chances of children with learning and behavioural impairment can be drastically impaired by making the employment of unqualified teachers legal and forcing regular teachers to do pedagogical work. That is what comes out of the draft that was posted on the wallet's website before Friday, April 13th. They gave time for social consultation and opinion only until 18 April, although it contains serious changes. In the future, not only a medical educator could teach certain subjects to students with mild and moderate mental disabilities. This means that unprepared teachers should also perform this task. They would also eliminate the possibility of exempting students with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties, including dyslexic, dysgraphic and discalculative students, from the classification with merit marks, on the proposal of the educational advisor. This has a negative impact on about 100,000 students. Their development would require and require special preparedness, not the collection of inadequate ones. It is further suggested that it could be taught in certain regions of the country or in specific professional areas without a teaching degree. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, have you finally given up children with integration, learning and behavioral difficulties? Why do they not want to provide them with the right quality of education in the future? Why do you only now realize that there is a significant shortage of teachers in some parts of the country, especially in the field of therapeutic educators? And why would you want to deal with the problem that you caused in 2015 when you forced the teachers to retire and not allow them to teach under contract? There's a lot of demand for it. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-04-24-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-24-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Since 2013, the number of teachers in pedagogical services and schools has increased by 1305 in the education system. A good part of your speech is based on mixing different categories: there are children with integration, learning and behavioral difficulties, they are children with btm abbreviations, and they have sni-s, they have special educational needs. Dislexics, dysgraphics, discalculatives belong to the latter, so the former amendments do not apply to them. [[13.20]] The question that has been submitted elsewhere shows ignorance, for example, when ignoring the fact that there are still several cases where students with special educational needs cannot or must be taught by a medical educator, and these are rules that have been in force in Hungary since 1993. In relation to Sni-students, it should be said that they should be employed as a consultant for their education and care if the primary aim of the profession in kindergarten or in school is to reduce the disadvantage resulting from a specific educational need, or even if rehabilitation or habilitation for health and pedagogical purposes is the purpose of the particular profession. In all other cases, it is not necessary to use such a therapeutic educator according to the law. This amendment applies only to students with mild and moderate disabilities, and only to certain subjects, so not to all subjects as you speak, but to skill objects, primarily drawing, physical education, technical, singing-music, ethics. This is not about unskilled people dealing with the child, but about the use of specialized teachers, teachers who have obtained their qualifications. I think, in the case of teachers, exactly the problems that you have mentioned, that in some places there may be a shortage of teachers in the coming years, a one and a half-fold increase in teacher wages can be a very good way to prevent. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-94	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why does the Government allow the legendary vineyards of the Balaton Highlands to be lost? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Local winemakers, i.e. Balaton-felvidék winemakers and civil society organisations, have drawn my attention through several forums and press to the fact that the vineyards of the Balaton-felvidék have begun to be bought up by real estate speculators. The area is then sold at a maximum of five to six times the local price of the plantations, which is more typical of the areas with a construction permit, so it is almost obvious that they will no longer want to farm in the area but will build. They are concerned, and it is certainly not unwarranted that a multitude of condominiums and apartment houses will be invading the region in a few years. What is happening in the area under the title of wine tourism has nothing to do with wine or tourism anymore, yet this sign is used to build the Balaton Uplands, which can make the value disappear, which even the burgundy vineyard farmers had to marvel at. The winemakers want to impose an immediate construction ban, which has been said several times, and unfortunately they have not been able to enforce their will so far. Unfortunately, the current rules can be played out, it is necessary that the passage of the Lake Balaton Act on external economic buildings be repealed, and the possibility of changing the cultivation of areas in the vineyard register should be prohibited. In addition, areas previously withdrawn from the vineyard register should be listed, in particular historical vineyards, and, finally, in all areas covered by the vineyard register, a construction ban should be introduced irrespective of size, so as not to allow for the establishment of a wine holding in areas of such status. Every loophole has to be closed, because as long as there's a loophole, it's being used. My question is what the government intends to do to ensure that the well-known plantations of the Balaton Highlands do not disappear. Do you wish to support plantation owners in implementing, maintaining and developing these tools? Does the government see an opportunity to listen substantially to the farmers and help them in their complaints? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State István Nagy, Deputy Minister. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The conservation and development of Lake Balaton and its surroundings and the preservation of its values are a joint task of the government and the municipalities of the municipalities in the vicinity of Lake Balaton. Vineyards are one of the priorities at Lake Balaton that the government considers necessary to preserve. The main objective of the Balaton Act is to preserve the landscape features of the priority resort area, to maintain and protect traditional landscape use. The use of these landscapes includes in particular the production of grapes in the Balaton Uplands. Through the cadastral classification of vine producers and the zone of the gardening area, the production of grapes is protected: areas intended for intensive installation cannot be designated in the settlement planning plans, the placement of buildings is only possible under strict conditions, typically the location of the farm-related farm building is possible. The construction of a building with a residential function is subject to even stricter conditions: it is possible to build a plot of at least 3 thousand square metres, 80 per cent of which can be built on a plot with a maximum of 3 per cent. The review of the Balaton Act has been initiated by the Prime Minister's Office and has conducted numerous consultations with regional government bodies and municipal authorities. There is also a need to avoid building buildings of an economic nature in vineyards. On the basis of the consultations, a proposal will be made to tighten the housing of buildings where justified. It is important to mention that the government has decided to separate very significant resources within the rural development resources for the equipment development of winemakers, and they can submit their application for approximately HUF 40 billion. The call is not linked to the area, so it is also available from the Balaton Uplands. The Prime Minister's Office also plans to amend the rural development programme in order to allow for the establishment of a new vineyard, in addition to the well-functioning restructuring aid. Discussions with the National Council of the Mountains are, of course, ongoing today. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and this opportunity will also be available from the Balaton Uplands. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What is the reason why Hungary is unable to increase its productivity? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2017-04-24-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The population is losing weight in Hungary, we are no longer 9.8 million - this is the data of the HCSO. Many people have been driven out of this country in the last seven years, so the number and proportion of people of working age are also decreasing. The retirement age was stamped for 65 years in December 2010 and the opportunities for flexible retirement were liquidated into a series of ounces. There is a shortage of labour when we approach the issue from one side, and on the other hand, many cannot work in this country. There are a lot of low-skilled or untrained people in the country, and their proportion of V4 is higher than what is in Poland, Slovakia. Seven years have passed, not everything that should have happened in terms of vocational training, because that would not be the case. In terms of job vacancies and free labour market capacities, the things that should be brought together are not compatible. Obviously, this is also affected by the fact that internal mobility is low and productivity is not increasing. If we look back over the past seven years, we are faced with a tragic picture; it does not grow because much of the resources have been used in a different direction, even if others have stolen it. As I said, more than 600,000 people have left this country, people have migrated, they want to live. Where's the new workforce coming from? What will happen to Hungary? How will productivity increase? All I'm asking for is answers to the real situation, just one that holds up, not a sermon from the eight years before the last seven years. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-24-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[13.30]]
u2017-04-24-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Honourable Congressman, Of course, it is never possible to miss the basis on which to build, because after eight years you have never wanted again, the most important goal after 2010 was to increase the employment rate and labour market participation. Labour market reforms to this end have been extremely successful in encouraging improvements in both indicators, with an employment rate of 13.4 percentage points and an activity rate of 9.3 percentage points since 2010, which shows that Hungary is the first among EU Member States in terms of dynamics. The number of people employed increased by around 700,000 compared to the first quarter of 2010. The employment of the high value added labour force is above the EU average, so that the increase in employment is partly achieved by a greater involvement of the unskilled, lower-added labour force. As a result, increasing labour market participation has reduced productivity developments. Women's economic activity in all the Member States of the European Union is lower than that of men, and this also applies to women in childbirth. In Hungary, the difference is 13,3 percentage points, which is the same as in Ireland, but there are much larger differences in other countries in Europe. Under the favourable conditions described above, the wage agreement and other steps taken by the government make it possible, and those programmes, such as the Irinyi Plan, Industry 4.0, allow the Hungarian economy to switch to a new, faster growth stage, and, of course, this means that it can also increase its productivity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-102	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 1:31 p.m., and we're at the end of questioning. We're going to talk about immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is Fidesz serving foreign power? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-04-24-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We tried this last week. I'd wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-24-104	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title 3 "Friends, Friends and Others." The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the President himself for an answer.
u2017-04-24-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to wait for Mr. Matolcsy to get here. Thank you.
u2017-04-24-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I must inform you that the President must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-04-24-107	Thank you very much, Mr President, I accept.
u2017-04-24-108	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-109	Thank you very much. Is it really only human matter to you, Minister? In 2011, they made a change in the working law book, remembering for sure: the afternoon allowance was abolished, the night allowance was reduced. Now they want to take the rest of the day off, increase the risk of accidents, force people to do free work in quotes, exploit them, wait years for their money to get to them. Working time frame: they want to work 2496 hours with these people - not two months, not four months, not one year, but three years. They do this without agreement, with trade unions, with the VKF, with no one, with any confederation or sector, while they are trying to drive workers to death, which, as we know, is not the secret of a long life. It's no coincidence that 600,000 people have left this country. You're planning a six-day working week with them? Do you want to eviscerate workers? I must say that there is no coincidence that trade unions are protesting, many others from the President of the MAS. The workers can wait for their wages, their money. It is a shame that they dared to bring this bill into Parliament's walls without agreement, and it is an even greater shame that they lied to our eyes that there were, of course, negotiations. You do not comply with the principle of flexibility and security in the world of work. You are only interested in flexibility, serving interests that may be of interest to multinational companies. All you can do is to withdraw this bill without delay and take on the basis of the promises made by Mihály Varga in 2015, which is that they will do a general review of the Labour Code. That's not what they've done so far, they've wiped out everything the unions have brought in before the VKF. Thank you very much. Take it back!
u2017-04-24-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2017-04-24-111	Dear fellow Member, Your Honour, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to begin by saying the few seconds that my fellow Member has used to tell the necessary opposition scoldings about the government's work... [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Criticism!]] criticism... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Builder! It's a constructive review.]] What is bitterly mixed with criticism does not fully cover reality, given that if I have good memories, then if someone made a gross HUF 140,000 at the end of 2009 and worked, say, in Hódmezővásárhely or in a factory in your town, 36 percent had to pay personal income tax. Then who's on the employee side? The one who... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not true! Dr. István Józsa and Sándor Burány intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have listened to you with great respect; if you will allow me, I will try to finish what I have said. When you were in government, 36 percent personal income tax had to be paid for a gross HUF 140-150 thousand. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: No! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It wasn't like that!]] ; when we govern, we have to pay 15 percent personal income tax. Then I ask the question: who is on the side of the people of work, the Hungarian workers? Your other observation, Mr President, justifies me to draw your attention to the fact that in 2010 we took over government without reaching 80,000 forints in the minimum wage. In Hungary there was only a substantial minimum wage increase under Fidesz, and the minimum wage is now HUF 127 thousand, next year HUF 138 thousand, and next year the guaranteed minimum wage will be HUF 180 thousand. Once again, I can ask the question: who is on the side of the workers? Anyone who reduces personal income tax or who increases salaries is our belief. As far as working time is concerned, I take your comments and your criticism seriously, the government has not yet established its final position, there are discussions between the factions and the government, and there is much truth to what you have raised. At the same time, you know very well that after 2010, we had to take serious steps to strengthen the country's competitiveness and stabilise the economy, in which workers also made sacrifices when they worked very hard to make companies profitable and tax-payable. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-112	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-24-113	Thank you very much. I have to say once again, Minister, it doesn't seem to matter to you. His multi-interests are important, we can see that. Look, are you talking about minimum wage? In terms of minimum wage, the gross was raised to the sky, of course, but the contributions were increased, which employers and employees paid, more than double than in 2010: then 32 thousand HUF, now 73 thousand HUF. The value of purchasing power is the same as it was in 2010, but these people were stolen for five years because they had less purchasing power money in their hands than they had before 2010. And I have to add that, in terms of the minimum wage, what they're doing distorts the whole system, because they're making more income through it than they're giving people. Take back this bill. Negotiate with the unions. Take note that they must serve the interests of the people, they must act accordingly, not otherwise. I ask you with all due respect.
u2017-04-24-114	Thank you. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-115	Thank you very much. Of course, your criticism and suggestions will be considered by the government. Your personal comment, I mean, I represent the interests of the multinationals, but I have to reject it, given that I could imagine that you represent the interests of the multinationals for a lot of people, but it was not even possible for me to assume that I represented multi-interest. [[13.40]] There are two interests in competing with each other. We agree that in Hungary workers must have the right to work, the right to a living from work, decent working conditions, and that it is the duty of all governments to contribute to this. The other is our very important interest in increasing the country's competitiveness, with the possibility of fighting for very important investments and technological developments in Hungary that are tax-related and create jobs. This assumes, of course, that the person who comes here to invest or is a Hungarian entrepreneur does not matter what conditions he employs you under. You have to find a balance between the two. No final decision has been made. The government is ready to negotiate with the people you mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi is not in the room. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2017-04-24-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I respectfully accept the identity of Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-118	Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We will now debate not exactly about health care, we will argue with you as usual, but about the development of an interesting, new kind of gentleman system that I have experienced in my constituency. Several residents approached me and raised the following problem. In my constituency there are two social institutions, one of which belongs to the lesencetomaji and the other to the birchlakpuszta institution, which belonged to two large families. The Lesencetomaji was Nedeczky, and the Nyirlaki was the hunting estate of the Tányányi family, which has been a social and psychiatric institution since the 1950s. In recent years, I have heard of several places where residents are being moved to villages, and this has caused concern in the residents. It is part of the question that this subsidised housing form has already worked in the past system, and Tapolca has also adopted three young people, who are very useful members of society and Tapolca. We're happy about that, but there's one more question. What do you intend to do with these hunting castles? We know of gentlemen who now own not only land estates, they not only own hotel chains, they have not only acquired properties on the shore of Lake Balaton, but also a hunting castle beside the lord and master. The question arises in our mind that if these institutions are eliminated, which in a very nice environment ensure the healing of those who are well-kept and well-kept there, then what is the purpose. Are you trying to create another Countial layer there, in this constituency or in another constituency? I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, what's in it for you? Because support housing itself is a good system, but there is no proper staff for it, just as it is not in the social home in Lesencetomaj, nor will it be again. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fact, you asked me two kinds of questions in your question. One is a social professional issue, which is about the process of ejaculation, and the other is a question of wealth management, what the state should do with its assets. What concerns the first part, indeed, is the state's explicit objective that people who need some kind of public care should not be crowded in large homes of up to hundreds of people, but, if possible, along the so-called evasive process, instead of being completely isolated from others on the outskirts of the city, they will end up in smaller homes where fewer people are. There, too, they can live their lives under the same professional supervision, receive the same professional help that is needed for their lives, but not in a large mammoth institution, completely separated, separated from society, but rather alive in ordinary life, but receiving the same help. This ejection is a very important process for everyone who is in the institutional system, it is beneficial, especially for those who are well cared for, for those who are well cared for, because their lives are much closer to normal, ordinary life carried by everyone, so that they can benefit from reintegration and integration. Everyone recognizes this in the west, in the east, everywhere. I think there's no doubt about it. We want to continue this process in the future, only this is slow, because we need to explain it to the stakeholders everywhere, who are in the institution, who live around the new institution, that it is not a threat to anyone, but rather a life worthy of man. As far as buildings are concerned, you know that these former castles were not built for the purpose of creating schools, social institutions, hospitals, nursing homes, anything else. At the beginning of the communist period, when they were nationalised, these large state institutions were incorporated into this, but such a type of building was never ideal for the functioning of these institutions. It was a gift that went on like this. Obviously, if these institutions are empty, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] then it is up to the government to decide on their future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-24-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Rig Lajos in return.
u2017-04-24-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, they were not built for this purpose, but for this purpose the family gave these structures to the state at the time. They gave up privatization to continue this professional thing that they have done in social institutions. I fully agree that this process must be completed, but let us look at it: three people have been integrated into society in four years. Do you think it's a quick process? Approximately 90 percent of the patients there have lived there since the age of 18, and most of them are now 50 years old. They need constant 24-hour surveillance. It is not a solution in the system where social workers are few, anyway, to place them in houses, in houses of 6-12 people, and there are 3-4 carers. This is both technically unacceptable and unsustainable. Hospitals are not the only ones who cannot guarantee the minimum condition, and social institutions are not the same. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2017-04-24-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There's one thing I can agree with you from one minute that this is a slow process. Indeed, this can only be done gradually, it is not possible to move everyone from one institution to another from one moment to the next. At the same time, I would argue entirely that this is not good professionally. I think it can be seen from a professional point of view and common sense that it is better for everyone to live in an integrated society and to receive the social assistance they need for their life. I ask Jobbik to support this so-called evasive process, to help me, at least not to discourage these people from having a more worthy life. I think if you were talking to your fellow Member about this, I think he can tell you why it is useful; I think that if we talked about it longer, we would agree. It's important to these people. At the same time, because there has been a wealth management exercise in Hungary for 20 years that has filled many people with various concerns, we have brought a two-thirds law on the management of national assets so that it is not possible to derail or spontaneously privatise national assets. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-24-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When does the government start to deal with reality? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she will accept the ministerial answer or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-04-24-127	We'll wait for Prime Minister, with all due respect.
u2017-04-24-128	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what else does the government think of instead of a referendum? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-04-24-129	With all due respect, we'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-04-24-130	Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "The Government is lying, or is the European Commission lying? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-04-24-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In November 2016, the European Commission closed infringement proceedings against the Hungarian Government for failure to tender for investment in Paks. The EU Panel has adopted the Government's position on technical exclusivity, i.e. that only Rosatom can deliver new reactors that can be fitted to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[13.50]] However, to date, it has not been established what objective legal conditions are for technical exclusivity, nor that only the Russian VVR-1200 reactor really meets these conditions. In recent months, both the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the National Atomic Energy Office have put in writing, there are no safety or technical requirements that only the Russian supplier can comply with, and neither the power plant nor the OAH have given any expert opinion demonstrating technical exclusivity. They could not give, since they were both previously prepared to tender international tenders, knowing that various technologies are suitable for expansion. So someone's not telling the truth. Either the government deceived the Commission because it did not receive any evidence from either Paks or the OAH, or it could not receive evidence of the only applicability of the Rosatom reactors, or the Commission turned its back on reality when it accepted, on the grounds of technical exclusivity, that the Orbán government had granted the most expensive investment in Hungarian history without tender, in breach of EU competition law. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to tell me that you have actually not told the truth on this issue: you or the European Commission.
u2017-04-24-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Firstly, I would like to start by saying that the government's view and the European economy believe that Hungary has achieved the greatest economic success of the last 26-27 years when it has obtained the European Commission's approval and support for the implementation of this EUR 12 billion investment. You know that, because we have talked about this in Parliament many times, that negotiations have been taking place between the European Commission and Hungary since autumn 2013, after nearly 3.5 years of joint and correct cooperation, after common and correct work, we could agree on five points on 6 March 2017 and discuss five difficult issues. This included the encryption of contracts, as was the question of whether Hungary had the right to conclude contracts with Russia as a non-EU country, as well as technical and technical security conditions, technical determination, the question of public procurement, and, of course, the question of banning illegal state aid in the European Union, since the European Commission has examined whether this investment is worth it or not for Hungary. In the view of the European Commission - and I think this should be reassuring for all my fellow Members in Parliament - this investment guarantees the Hungarian State investing a return of 7-8 percent and the return on the market is around 9-10 percent. Therefore, only 1 per cent is the difference between investment under market conditions and under State conditions. Another very important aspect, which the European Commission positively appreciated, was that this is a state investment, the Hungarian state will implement, operate the nuclear power plant and keep it in its own national ownership. As far as your question is concerned, we have answered all the questions to the European Commission for 3.5 years. I do not believe in your assumption that the European Commission was wrong or misled the public or turned its back on reality. I think the European Commission has handled this matter very carefully and very sensitively, and has taken a thorough decision, for which it is prepared to take responsibility in a court of law, as more people are likely to go to court. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-134	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2017-04-24-135	Mr. Secretary. According to your answer, there must be technical exclusivity. At the same time, however, it hangs in the air that 13 billion forints were spent preparing a multi-player international tender, and then the question is why the members of the government talked about issuing an international tender in autumn 2013. What really changed between November 2013 and January 2014 in Paks technology, with only an experimental, no-one in the world tried Rosatom reactor matching it? So there is something wrong here that we have now launched an international tender, and we are only going to write it if there is no technical exclusivity, but the European Commission has to accept that there is technical exclusivity. Which one is it now? So here, I suppose, you feel that there's a contradiction.
u2017-04-24-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-04-24-137	Thank you very much. My honourable fellow Member, I would like to begin or continue with what I have just mentioned here, and that is that the European Commission needed 3.5 years to look at this matter, to look at it thoroughly, and to take final decisions, knowing that the European Commission's decisions can be challenged at the European Court of Justice. I am sure that, given the political relations between Hungary and the European Union, knowing the relationship between the European Union and Russia, the European Commission and the international political challenges were particularly relevant to greening. So I do not think that the European Commission would risk taking an unsubstantiated decision in the case of such an important, embarrassing and important investment. With regard to the other question, the change of concept is that the original plan was to become a private power plant, partly public and partly private. Finally, the Hungarian state decided that instead of a private power plant, a state-owned nuclear power plant is being built in Hungary. That's the difference in concept. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-138	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: can the Carpathian Basin really be strengthened together? It's an address. Minister István Mikola has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-139	Dear Secretary of State, Following the outrageous referendum in 2004, a significant turn in the Hungarian government's national strategy policy took place in 2010. One of the first legislative proposals of the newly formed Parliament was the radical facilitation of the possibility of foreign Hungarians access to citizenship. There is no doubt that the Orbán government views the Hungarians from abroad as a whole differently than the socialist-free democratic government. The prosperity of our countrymen in their homeland is also a token of our nation's survival. At the same time, I think it is important that our countrymen who have been torn away by the Trianon decision do not just feel legally and culturally part of the body of the Hungarian nation. I consider it historic that the government has now announced economic recovery support programmes, not only in Vojvodina and Transcarpathia, but also in the Highlands. It is essential that support can only be used for economic development and job creation. It is in our fundamental interest that the Carpathian Basin can be strengthened together in agriculture, industry and tourism, as together we can achieve even greater success in the world economy. However, we must not forget that the main objective of economic development support to foreign Hungarians, which is more important than ever, is to keep the community in its homeland, to promote the livelihood and prosperity of Hungarian families locally. On this basis, I ask: what economic development strategy can be implemented in the Carpathian Basin? Can the Carpathian Basin really grow stronger together? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-141	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The main aim of the Hungarian government's support for Hungarians beyond the border, which is more important than ever before, is to keep the Hungarian community in its homeland, and to promote the livelihood of Hungarian families locally. In the period 2016-2018, the government provides more than HUF 30 billion in non-refundable support and a reduced loan of HUF 30 billion to achieve the objectives of the Vojvodina Strategy. The strategy for economic development in Vojvodina is a pioneer in the implementation of similar external economic development programmes, with the implementation of which a new era began in the life of Hungarians across the border. The programme was launched in February 2016 in cooperation with the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, and its implementation has continued with unbroken success. Since the launch of the programme, more than 6,000 successful economic development proposals were launched, worth nearly HUF 10 billion, within the framework of two calls for proposals in the agriculture, tourism, business development and house and land purchase category announced by the Prosperitati Foundation. With the support of producers and small businesses, it was possible to set up a base for investments based on higher added value, creating jobs for long-term economic development, providing a supply network and integrating farmers. Based on this, in November 2016 we opened up the possibility to apply for proposals for large-scale investments in agriculture and industry. [[14.00]] The financing of investments consists of grants provided by the Hungarian budget, preferential loans and the self-financing provided by entrepreneurs. With the development we create new jobs in thousands of sizes and integrate farmers [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Those who can expect a safe living in Vojvodina. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-24-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz in return.
u2017-04-24-143	Dear Secretary of State, It is reassuring to me that the government treats Hungarians as one body, but also places great emphasis on helping Hungarians from abroad to thrive locally. This is the key to the Hungarians' survival in their homeland. Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-145	Honourable Congressman, On the basis of the positive experience so far, we are also planning to launch new calls for proposals within a short period of time. In this context, we will open the tendering facility for enterprises planning to implement medium-sized development, farmers integrated by large agricultural investments, re-open rural house purchase programmes for young farmers and launch a large-scale land purchase loan programme. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-24-146	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Whose behalf is it? Who's gonna win? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
u2017-04-24-147	Thank you, Mr President, of course I accept the Minister for the person who is responding. Dear Minister, There have been settlement bonds in Hungary since 2013. Birth itself was a strange thing at the time, since Antal Rogán, who was still a group leader, submitted an individual representative's motion to Parliament, and then, accepting this, the Parliament trusted Antal Rogán - he returned to the sender - and the committee he led to select intermediate organisations for settlement bonds that would help sell Hungarian sovereign debt to individuals who would like to settle in Hungary; obviously, we all know that it is a form of Schengen easier to buy for themselves, for roughly EUR 300,000. At the time, the conditions of reliability were completely different for companies, for these intermediary companies, let us not forget, Minister, which also act on behalf of the Hungarian State and have a contractual obligation with the Hungarian State. In these companies, the need to learn about ownership was not a criterion of any kind. It's mostly offshore companies, you never know who's behind these companies. Between 6 and 7,000 bonds were sold, some 17 and 18 thousand people came here with the families, and Sándor Pintér wrote us this in his reply, so I'm almost sure they counted well. Then there was a campaign now, in the past period, because you announced in October that this kind of bond, the settlement policy, would be cancelled in December, and then it turned out that you were just going to examine it, and then in March, this bond would end, and now it's April, and you can still have it. So, obviously, this looks like a end-of-the-season sale, but I'd like to ask you why these offshore companies had to be involved. Why did this construction have to be created, and why didn't they sell these papers themselves? Thank you.
u2017-04-24-148	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-04-24-149	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, First of all, I would like to start by saying that outside funds are always needed by a country in debt of this size. In 2010, we took over 85% of the government debt and now the budget submitted to you shows a debt level of 72 percent by 2018. Those who have ruled this country, such as the socialists, know that they must not only be able to take up the debt, but must also be repaid. The primary purpose of the issuance of sovereign debt in Hungary is to repay the loans previously received. Hungary is still an indebted country, and it was even more so after 2010, which is why the government was forced to involve retail creditors in a larger proportion than the current one, i.e. in a larger proportion than in 2010. Today, in Hungary, we can say that the size of the amount lent by the Hungarian population to the Hungarian state and recorded in the form of government bonds has quadrupled compared to 2010, so today the majority of Hungarian voters and taxpayers are lending to the Hungarian state, but there was also a need for foreign funds. I think there's a difference in attitude between your attitude and the attitude of the government. I think that if someone in 2010-11, when Hungary was threatened by bankruptcy, lent to this country, of course, at good interest rates, but still took a risk of buying the sovereign debt of a country classified as Bovli, I think it did the country a favor. I don't usually like the mentality of being forced to borrow money and getting mad at the lender. Then you don't have to borrow it, you don't have to have a public debt in the budget, and all the technical problems you've been asking for will soon be solved. The entire operation, as you well know, was presented by the Economic Committee, the Economic Committee was competent, and the Government Debt Management Centre provided the necessary bonds. In my opinion, this was still a good business for the financing of the Hungarian State in 2011-12. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-150	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-04-24-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, You didn't listen to my question at the time, but I was prepared. You talked about 2010-11, even about 12, and from 2013 you can buy such settlement bonds. It might have been a good deal in 2011-12, but from 2013 it wasn't, and you said on the government info several times that you didn't need it since last summer. Let's see what's happened since then. So there are companies, offshore companies, and we don't know who's behind it. One thing we can be sure of is that they don't tax in Hungary, but their hidden owners make a hell of a living looking for themselves. Those people, too, you know, those aliens you let into the country, and they can fly up and down from the Hungarian border to Brittany, they're good for them too. Those who are wrong with it are, in fact, the Hungarians who start to repay this loan in a year's time, with interest, even though they did not profit from it. You're not gonna get to what's important again, because you're gonna have to pay for your business. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-24-152	Thank you. Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-153	Yes, ladies and gentlemen. I can only answer your question with facts. The first fact is that Hungary was not so long ago rated by credit rating agencies, so the level of interest rates has just changed in favour of Hungary. The second fact is that if you had not received loans from the IMF and the European Commission, Hungary would have been ruined in 2008-09 as a result of your governance, and these loans had to be repaid after 2010, in 2012-13-14 and even in recent years, in order to say that we do not owe this loan at least to the IMF and the European Commission. If we hadn't gotten this lifeline, we would have been completely bankrupt. As far as offshore companies are concerned, offshore companies or persons who have been granted entry and entry to Hungary have not, in the opinion of the Ministry of Interior, reported any risk to national security. The Minister of the Interior said this several times here and at the Commission hearings, they were subjected to a careful and thorough national security investigation. By the way, Congressman, if you are aware of any other matter, you should file a criminal report and then the justice system will clarify the difference between our positions.
u2017-04-24-154	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-04-24-155	I'll take it.
u2017-04-24-156	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The summer beach season is coming up, and what does the average Hungarian man do? If you have money, you go down to Lake Balaton, you buy the beach pass, you eat a scone, maybe even a beer, and then you go home. What's the nation's one-off gasman doing compared to that? Lőrinc Mészáros does not mince it, he takes and buys the whole Balaton for himself as it is, because after the hotels, the wineries and wineries in the Balaton Highlands, the Hungarian gas mechanic, who is already more talented than Zuckerberg, now seems to have set his eyes on Lake Balaton and acquired the ownership and operation of 100 hectares of Balaton Coast area through Balatontouriston. [[14.10]] This is even more interesting, as in December the news came to light that the government was planning 5 billion forints, by the way, quite rightly, to renovate the campsites on the shore of Lake Balaton, and interestingly, these campsites suddenly migrate into the property of Lőrinc Mészáros. It is as interesting as it was previously found that the South Balaton railway line could be built for some HUF 100 billion by a company belonging to Lőrinc Mészáros's interest, or, as it turns out, for many other Balaton real estates, that somehow Lőrinc Mészáros and his interests will be owned. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether you think it is strange or what the government thinks of the fact that, as a good friend of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, he is a gas mechanic and mayor who has become a good friend of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, he will only acquire a whole lake at once, he will become almost master of the Balaton neighbourhoods, and he will make Lake Balaton almost a garden of his own environment and the Prime Minister's environment, and what the government thinks of the fact that he is slowly becoming the property of the Prime Minister and his family circle through the strome of the whole country. What do you think of this fact, and do you wish to do something about it? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2017-04-24-159	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman. The government would have thought of this if the allegations you made were true. Given that your claims do not cover reality, the government has no idea about it. But since you've asked me, let me just talk to you about an attitude thing. I was able to sit here, at the discretion of the electorate, when everyone in this House was peeping, and I even had the opportunity to answer questions about Lajos Simicska. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yet, come on!]] Now I have a way to answer other questions. Then and now I think it is wrong - and Jobbik may also learn that - if Members of Parliament take on a specific Hungarian entrepreneur. Of course, there are phenomena that need to be addressed, of course there are phenomena in Hungary and everywhere, which must be regulated from the world of enterprise, spoken out, called out, accounted for. But to make concrete entrepreneurs, businesses, concrete people, their names, backgrounds, their families, their work, who are not public figures, who are not part of the Hungarian political life, let us call them here and judge them in their entrepreneurial capacity, I do not generally consider this to be the right thing to do. I didn't think it was when it was related to Lajos Simicska, and I don't think it is now. I assume that as a representative of the Jobbik, whom Lajos Simicska appreciates, he understands why I gave this answer. The other part is the development of Lake Balaton. You, Congressman, I hope that you will support the development of Lake Balaton, to which the government will mobilise tens of billions of resources coming back from the home and from the European Union, and by modernising transport, we would like to see the attractiveness of Lake Balaton for those who live there, and for those who go there, to be even better and more important. Besides Budapest, Lake Balaton is a huge opportunity for future Hungarian tourism, job creation and development of the Hungarian economy, besides being one of the most beautiful points of the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-160	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-24-161	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, First of all, Lőrinc Mészáros is not a specific entrepreneur, but he is slowly the entrepreneur of Hungary, if this continues, as these trends show. The other is the interesting business background; the same person who once owned or bankrupted the Balaton campsites in 2007, ten years ago or a few years ago, but was returned to the same business circle by way of an insolvency. When you joined the socialists when the SCD Group belonged to Jászai Gellért, you voted to change the Balaton Act by increasing the value of these properties to multiple times immediately afterwards. So it's not necessarily because there was any political connection to the particular entrepreneur, but it was a completely random amendment of the law at the time, in 2007, and it's also a coincidence that now a large part of the HUF 365 billion source is guaranteed to migrate to companies belonging to Lőrinc Mészáros's interest, and the rest of this amount is likely to be transferred by means of additional real estate acquisitions. So obviously all of this is just a coincidence, and it is also a coincidence that as mayor, otherwise as a public figure, it can be publicly criticized that it belongs to the interests of the Prime Minister Lőrinc Mészáros. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-04-24-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman. The government is not a community of dealers and does not deal with business matters. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. Attila Mesterházy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't comment on the socialists, just our own government. Our government is not a community of dealers and does not deal with business matters. As for the mayor, the mayor of Felcsút, if you have a problem with his mayor's work, you should obviously turn to the otherwise wide and high-pitched public where you can discuss it. My third comment would be that a civil society organisation against the government examined the extent to which a particular interest group, which was still involved in the Public Machine, Lajos Simicska, was already involved in the U.S. mayor of Upstairs, which you have called here. This group of companies, which is perhaps 50-60 companies, receives about 4-5 percent of the total Hungarian public procurement, 95 percent of which are not awarded to them. Is there a law that says that Lőrinc Mészáros cannot win public procurement in Hungary? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-164	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Road to nowhere?" It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-04-24-165	Thank you very much. I could have told you about the bridge. Today's news is that Flórian Farkas... [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] It will also come sooner or later, because instead of budget fraud, the process is now under way because of misappropriation and mistreatment. But that's not the question. Here, in Parliament, we talk almost hours about the use of EU funds. There may be a lot to talk about, but I think that the Minister would be able to see best in this case, and not only to look at data when he goes home, he will go off the highway at Kistelek, he will go towards Kistelek, and he will turn right at the first solar panel. You will find a way that no one will write out, a beautiful, well-made arrow straight from European Union sources, it will lead nowhere. Be very careful if you go at night, you should go slowly, because without any signs or signs, you run out of time and cross a dirt road. In addition, there is a logistics centre - this is Hunvestor Kft. he did - this logistics center was originally laid its foundation stone in Kiskunfélegyháza, and they said that the cars arriving on the railway would be dumped there, and from there the trucks would take the cars to the country everywhere. Compared to this, it was built near Kistelek, a little further away, the railway was forgotten of it, compared with three containers, and a flat area. This area was built for 500 million forints, and the Hungarian government paid them only 500 million for one billion forints on paper. I believe that there is no place more beautiful than this, where we can see how the EU's economic development uses are being made: a road to nothing, while the European Union's support lasts, is running out, and we are in nothing and 500 million for three containers and a flat area. I want your opinion on this investment.
u2017-04-24-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-04-24-167	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your advice on how to take a look at the road. Tonight, when I go home, I will do it anyway. Although it usually happens in our country, in the lowland region, that they build agricultural roads and can build only five kilometers instead of 20 or 10 kilometers - it is also a pleasure for a farmer who uses them - and then usually these roads, for you, may be surprising, but they continue in a dirt road. That's what we have in Hungary. The LMP is a narrow pair of layers in Budapest, it obviously does not provide access to the Kistelek area. Kishtelek and I usually go to animal fairs with my father, but now I'm going to find the way. Given that my colleagues are following your fantastic work as Fidesz-renega, I can tell you that Hunvestor Kft. in the case of the logistics base, he received an on-the-spot check from the Prime Minister's Office last year, the staff of the Prime Minister's Office established an overpriced price for the non-eligible cost of solar cells, and the final payment paid HUF 41 million 760,000. [[14.20]] In addition, the repayment of the unaccounted and interest-bearing advance is still ongoing. I think that the logistics base could be important for the small region of Kitelek. 2017. CHAPTER VII They have to keep it up to 21 months, which they received much earlier, as far as I know during the previous government. Given that Kishtelek has very good thinking, very decent, very honest people, I ask the Member not to attack the people of Kishtelek, but to support him; it is true that they are not from downtown, but from Kishtelek, but deserve support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-168	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-04-24-169	I'm kind of sad to hear that answer. The solar panel was the only thing that happened there, all the other three containers and a flat area. I strongly suggest you take a look. Go a little further, go into town and look at the industrial park on the edge of the city, there are 15 factory halls out of which there are no production in 12, the mayor said it was because they forgot to send electricity to him. Since 2014, these production halls have been standing there. If we look at the companies that were supposed to apply for them and set them up, practically most of them went bankrupt, and their income there was extremely reduced. I strongly suggest you take a look at it, and I'd appreciate it if you'd write me a letter afterwards and tell me what you saw there. Thank you very much. I reject the fact that, for us, the countryside is not important, LMP is the only parliamentary party whose co-chair comes and lives in the countryside. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-24-170	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-04-24-171	Thank you very much. The Kisterek Industrial Park was supported by the government at the time by 43 million HUF 500 thousand, and cost a total of 62 million HUF 200 thousand. The maintenance period for the industrial park ended in the summer of 2015. At the moment, Kisterek and the industrial park have no obligation to report to the government whether it is working or not. All I'm asking you to do is support the little ones, believe me, they're very nice people. And by the way, in all the cases you've been subpoenaed, I'm going to do that right now. I'll take a look at it, and I'll refer you in writing to what we've done. And I'm glad you're representing the interests of the rurals at the LMP, and it won't be easy for you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-172	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Károly Panczél, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Who pays the protestors? It's an address. Minister István Mikola has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-04-24-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-04-24-174	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A long campaign of one and a half years ended last November in the United States, when Donald Trump was elected President 45 of the States. However, not everyone can accept the electorate's decision, and as we see and read the American news, we may have the impression that the campaign is still going on. Even the day after the inauguration of the new President, a major anti-Trump protest took place. Liberal media has promoted demonstration as a spontaneous bottom-up initiative launched by independent civil society organisations. But the reality, as it turns out, is quite different. According to the data of the US Media Research Center, György Soros and his Open Society Foundation have supported the organisations behind the protest with no less than 247 million dollars over the last decade. Another demonstration held on 15 April revealed that four of the eight organisations behind it were funded by the Open Society Foundation. Organisations linked to George Soros not only fund political movements in the United States, but worldwide, and intervene in the internal affairs of sovereign states without having any electoral authority. Last week, it was also mentioned here in Parliament that the Soros Empire in Macedonia spent at least $5 million on 61 so-called NGOs, which organised violent protests to destabilize the conservative government. In these demonstrations, it was common practice to throw bottles of paint at public buildings. The same method seems to be being pursued in Hungary, Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, Who pays for the organisation of protests? [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-177	Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Before we get to the domestic situation, it is worth considering the events in Macedonia; I will do so very briefly. Macedonia is a key country on the Western Balkans migration route, which, like Hungary, protects its borders against illegal immigration. In Macedonia, however, external intervention has led to an unstable situation which hinders the country's ability to be a decision-making government. It is also apparent in Hungary that so-called NGOs want to influence the country's internal policy. It is clear that they are not really civil society organisations, but the offices of international networks linked to György Soros in Budapest. These organisations financed from abroad have neither membership nor any authority to interfere with Hungarian politics, no one has ever elected them. Not these organisations, but the democratically elected Hungarian parliament and government represent the Hungarian people. These organisations are attacking Hungary because the Hungarian government is resistant to illegal immigration. The Hungarian people and the Hungarian government representing them do not want illegal immigration and forced resettlement, but foreign money organizations are pro-immigration, and openly encourage illegal immigrants to violate Hungarian laws. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-178	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. [[Dr. István Józsa:]] Congressman, if I may ask you, please pay attention to your fellow Member. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. Indeed, if we look at 2015 alone, we can see that the organisations financed by the Soros network received some HUF 1.2 billion, and this was the money from which Hungary, Hungary's immigration policy, was constantly being attacked, and not only in Hungary, but also in Brussels, in other European Union forums or in the press in other countries of Europe. Two weeks ago, on the day that agency organizations organized a protest in Hungary, one of the websites reported on this event eighteen times, almost mobilized these events, so it is clear that these spontaneous and civilian demonstrations are backed by Mr Soros's empire. This, by the way, is damaging, since normal civil society organisations are also blackened by this fact. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-04-24-181	Honourable Congressman, Mr. President. This behaviour is, of course, unacceptable. The Hungarian government has the interests and security of the Hungarian people in mind, it will continue to do so and will act against illegal immigration. We expect pro-immigration organisations to work transparently and to make it clear whose money they use and whose interests they represent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-24-182	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. There is a great deal of trouble in Szabolcs! Can farmers finally count on the government? It's an address. Minister István Nagy, Minister of State, has appointed a Deputy Minister to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-04-24-183	I accept, thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-184	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, in recent days, in weeks, almost all of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, but the eastern part must have suffered frost damage in several waves. Unfortunately, this frost damage is not a new phenomenon, but in recent years farmers have seen it many times, but on 12 April and then on 15 April farmers faced frosts of minus 4-5 degrees by dawn, and unfortunately this has caused a lot of damage to plant and fruit crops. Fruit cultures are mainly concerned with sour cherries and apples, but also peaches, plums and nuts, as appropriate. Unfortunately, as I have mentioned, this frost damage has not been the first in recent years, its specialty or novelty is that in recent days cold snow rain has frozen everything around Nyírbátor, for example, this morning, not only in fruit cultures, but also in all other agricultural cultures. [[14.30]] As I said, this is not the first time in years. I know that, in this case, the government always claims that farmers should enter the compensation scheme, when they enter, pay in, and that they can compensate for it. However, as I mentioned, it was not the first case, and on the basis of recent years, it is not possible to calculate the turnover of farmers in this way, since they have suffered a lot of losses, unfortunately. Therefore, the compensation scheme alone will not be able to solve the problem of these people. We have a lot of human problems, a lot of families going wrong. Several have indicated several times, in several places, that they need some kind of external and very immediate help. I would therefore like to ask how the government can help these farmers. In what ways can you help families whose livelihoods have been put at risk?
u2017-04-24-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy to answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. I would also ask my fellow Members to listen to Mr Secretary of State as quietly as you have listened to your speech. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-24-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The first question of whether farmers can count on government support is that yes, farmers can always count on government support. It is also a fact that Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is exposed to frost. Unfortunately, we also face the difficulties caused by the frost damage in spring year after year. And it's also a fact, thank God, I have to say that this year is not as high as, say, last year when you could say it was general. Now it's been quite isolated, in smaller areas. It was a fantastic struggle for farmers to prepare for the cold as they prepared for smoking, humidification, or fogging. Human wonder is the achievement that these people there have done in a difficult situation to ensure that their incomes are properly guaranteed. I have to say that the government just recently amended the agricultural compensation scheme. One of the most important elements of the amendment was that the reduction in the production value of at least 15% on the basis of the compensation allowance should be assessed at the damaged crop level rather than at the previous operating level. Thus, due to the good yields of non-damaged crops, the amount of compensation does not need to be reduced. If producers take out any agricultural insurance, even premiumed, they may be entitled to double the compensation that is otherwise due. As a further measure, the fully interest-free and cost-free loan for frost and ice damage was extended until the end of May, with a loan of HUF 1 million per hectare. The loan is eligible for farmers in most areas of the county, but, if necessary, the range of beneficiary municipalities may be extended. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that production-related fruit support has increased significantly from 2017 onwards for intensive plants, and the expected support can be around 150 thousand forints/hectare, which I also think is good news for producers. What can be done, I'll explain in the next minute.
u2017-04-24-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-04-24-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I understand what you've told me. But, as I said, unfortunately, the agricultural compensation scheme will not be able to provide a solution to a significant part of the farmers. So we would like to ask the government not to ask that it do something for these farmers now, in the coming days. We know the old saying, as it has already been said here in Parliament, that it gives twice, who gives fast. So farmers need help very, very quickly, even because unfortunately this year's agricultural payments have been delayed in some sense, whether we are talking about SAPS or greening. And we can't really talk about the AKG. So, for farmers, it was very, very serious financial strain at the beginning of the year. The fight you mentioned is indeed exemplary. They hope that, in addition to the struggle that they have done exemplaryly, the government will be able to do something about it and do something about it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Nagy State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-04-24-191	I would like to ask Mr Congressman, until we know how bad the problem is, not to make it even bigger. [[Dr. István Józsa: Great.]] So when we can finally make sure that the crop is lost, how much the plant is able to correct it, then you can tell what the damage is. We can't expect to provide support right now, we don't expect farmers to, I'm absolutely sure of that, because we need to know what the damage is. But what is the long - term solution? Because when you look at it, it's always in these areas that the problem is the most. Most of the problem is that the air is so dry that it is always 4-5 degrees hotter in summer, it is always 4-5 degrees colder in winter. What's the solution here? The solution is that we have to do that drainage system, we have to build it up, and here the settlements have to pull together so that we can put into the air a degree of humidity that, like all other surrounding settlements, can equalize the fate of this region. The biggest problem is that there is a drought that always allows for more negative or extreme weather. With this drainage, irrigation, or storage and water storage, this area could also be stabilized in the long term by income from fruit production, including, of course, the survival of farmers in rural areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-24-192	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Representative Márta Demeter applied for a post-meeting speech, an independent representative:.Hungary today (1 ): : What you cannot occupy, destroy. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-24-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government has been building it in front of us, step by step for years. In Hungary, the authoritarian system. The democratic institutional system now exists only in traces and perhaps in structures, but none of its content works, since all these institutions are now filled with party cadres. While the government is always creating new images of enemies for the public and lying its own business interests to Hungarian national interests, it completely undermines Hungary's remaining little international confidence and its remaining crumbs. They play with the Hungarian people's souls and play with the fate of Hungary in such a way that it is difficult to decide whether they are only incredibly irresponsible or deliberately betray and destroy their own people. I think both of them are a huge problem, and today we can say that the government is conducting psychological warfare against the Hungarian people. And while the government is drawing enemies for itself, it is Brussels or the universities or civil society organisations or the United States, not only do they not give the basic security guarantees to the Hungarian people to deal with the real security challenges, but the government is selling the sovereignty and security of the country itself for just a narrow circle of friends. We saw what happened with the settlement bonds. Today, new information has come to light. The law firm connected to Antal Rogán has already made more than HUF 6 billion in this business, and the offshore companies have made over 100 billion. However, the situation is particularly interesting, as Mr Lázár mentioned in one of his replies here how important it was to involve foreign funds in the financing of the Hungarian State after 2010. This is particularly interesting and absurd to hear when civil society organisations receiving foreign subsidies are being bought and branded by the government. I don't think they have any moral basis for this. As far as settlement bonds are concerned, it can be said that with the money of criminals or even the money of counterintelligible secret services, as they can buy such bonds, they finance the Hungarian state. We have seen what has happened in connection with the visa issue in Moscow and in the Pharaon case. In the meantime, they are doing everything they can to keep Hungarian society at bay. The main motto for the government today is to destroy what you can't occupy. The government is clearly acting against the Hungarian people, making people increasingly vulnerable to keep them at bay. We see this in the field of education what they are doing now with the Labour Code, and they have committed countless violations of the law against Hungarian people in recent years. Their insufferable decisions are even enhanced by Gentrian customs, since we know what a cult of money distribution is now in government circles. And we know how important it is for those involved in the government to be noble hobbies such as hunting; while their friends, such as Zsolt Bayer, can threaten Hungarian people without consequences. I'm sure you don't have to introduce him to Deputy Prime Minister. I have to say that this will not always be the case, in a year's time, after the fall of the regime, all law-absorbing will be repealed, and political and professional officials who threaten the safety of Hungarian people and enforce unscrupulous corruption will also have to answer for their actions, and these things will not lapse. Finally, today, on the 50th anniversary of Zsigmond Széchenyi's death, let me quote from his first deer. And if you've already wounded him, find him. Look for him until he finds him until his feet are worn out until his waist is broken. Because the loss of wounded savages, the shame of shooting to death, is beyond any hunting offense. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: This was the first mature sentence.]] I have to say, the government has gone beyond any misdemeanor. I would like to say an old saying on this point: Deputy Prime Minister, the hunter can also become a hunter. [[A rare applause from the ranks of the opposition and the spokespersons. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who threatens you?]]
u2017-04-24-194	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.40]]
u2017-04-24-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary operates according to a constitutional system, in constitutional order. The National Assembly was elected by the Hungarian people within the legal framework, and it is possible that next year, obviously in accordance with the legal order, the people, those with suffrage, will decide how the government appreciates, how the opposition appreciates or how the results of political forces outside Parliament are appreciated. Your comment is generous and tried to paint a full, tragic and pessimistic picture of the state of the country and the activities of the government. Obviously, the possibility of an opposition or, I don't know, of an opposition representative is to say so. In Hungary, there is a rule of law, and the law ensures that everyone takes action against the infringements they have suffered, and the rule of law frameworks operate accordingly. The government doesn't threaten anyone, unlike your last words, which, of course, I obviously think is only metaphorical, and I'm sure he meant it metaphorically. Nevertheless, I can assure you that all of us who are sitting in the pro-government benches are facing all kinds of challenges, including next year's election, and that in a year or two years' time, the debate between the opposition and the government can continue, by the way, to be normal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-24-196	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, Member of the Parliament from the KDNP faction, also applied for a speech after the agenda. He died 50 years ago with the title of Count Zsigmond Széchenyi. I give you the floor, Deputy Prime Minister, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-04-24-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I salute Aunt Mangi, the widow of Count Széchenyi Zsigmond. Fifty years ago, Count Zsigmond Széchenyi, the greatest Hungarian hunter, returned his soul to the Creator. Generations have grown up in his books, which bring us exotic landscapes: the world of savannahs, jungles, deserts, and snowfields. Eternally, he expressed his confession to the true hunters as an inn. The hunt: hunting and foresting. But more foresting! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm In the thirties of the last century, his books made him known not only back home but all over the world. Lajos Zilahy writes about his books in the Pesti Napló:. Their language is blurred from the hay smell of the Transdanubian villages, and it is also a pleasure to hear this strong peasant language from the mouth of a Hungarian magnate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He began his first journey to Africa from his estate in Kőröshegy, which the Széchenyi family had for eight generations, and then, as he writes, he fed it with lions. But it wasn't such a bad investment. He profited from his descriptions of the country, and after his possessions were confiscated by the postwar system, after a while he lived somehow from his republished books - ultimately from his hunting experiences. During World War II, a diplomat moved to his villa in Swabhegy; he thought that his fantastic collection could enjoy diplomatic protection. The house, along with the collection, burned to the ground in the fire of an incendiary bomb. In a few hours, the richest hunting collection in the country was destroyed. If we only count Africans, he managed to collect 80 out of 130 large gamers on the continent. After the siege, Kőröshegy's house was confiscated, and the parenting house in Sárpentele was destroyed, and he himself suddenly became penniless and a class stranger. He remembers these years with a harsh sense of humor. I've become unpatriotic in my own country. In Balatongyörök, the widow of Györök accepted me into her humble room, from there I visited my daily workplace, the library in Keszthely. Before that, of course, I went on an adventurous expedition. Russian detention in Cinkota, then in Tisza Kálmán Square, Adrássy út 60, Hortobágy evacuation, internment, a year-and-a-half public guest, a free holiday in the Sopronkőhida resort, wintering in the Mosoni Street trailer house. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In 1949, he was expelled from the Writer's Union, stripped of his rank as an officer in 1952. But when he wasn't in prison or deported, he wrote his 500 years of hunting bibliography in four languages at work as an out-of-stock helper. Although his collection was destroyed during the war, his four thousand volume, four-language hunting books were miraculously saved, and today it enriches the material of the Natural History Museum. The question of why he didn't defect, according to his wife's recollection, he repeatedly said: "Hungarian should be here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The books of the post-revolutionary consolidation system were published one after another. A great number of copies, many, many enthusiastic readers, but there was something that meant something similar to that time in Pest: there were many anecdotes orbiting it. When the truck arrived before the Hortobágy evacuation, he was waiting for it at the gate with a backpack on his shoulder. They said, is that enough? He replied with a grudge, "If I was able to go to Africa with a bag, it might be enough here. And if anyone was spoken about by the anecdotes of the last century in Pest, they were locked in the heart of the city. It could have gone to Africa twice - out of government mandate - to replace the destroyed values for the National Museum. At this time, his autobiographical masterpieces appear, like the As it began and the Holidays. On April 24, 1967, he restored his soul to the Lord God, whom, as he testified, he could meet walking through the woods. Zsigmond Széchenyi is primarily a great hunter, writer and photographer of distant exotic landscapes. But your testimony about the forests at home is just as beautiful. The first wild beast of the Hungarian forest, the most desirable prey of the Hungarian hunter, is the deer bull. For us, September is the most different month of the year, the time of deer crying. There's nothing more beautiful than the silver-strained beech tree of September, and there's nothing more beautiful than the deer in it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When we created the Hungarian hunting museum in Hatvan, for a moment there was no doubt that it should be named after the greatest Hungarian hunter, Count Zsigmond Széchenyi. Thank you for listening.
u2017-04-24-198	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2017-04-24-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Deputy Prime Minister! Count Zsigmond Széchenyi's name coincides with the well-known Hungarian hunting culture and cultured hunting. Hungary organized a world success hunting exhibition in 1971. On the 50th anniversary of this, we will do it again in 2021. The World Hunting Exhibition in Hungary in 2021 will achieve the great dream of Count Zsigmond Széchenyi, as Hungarian wildlife management and hunting culture can be a worthy display of the world. I think we're still honoring his memory. Thank you very much. [[14.50]]
u2017-04-24-200	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Hoppál, Minister of State, Member of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a post- Agenda speech: in 2023, a Hungarian city could once again be called the European Capital of Culture. I give you the floor in five minutes' time, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-24-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Florence, Paris, Madrid, Amsterdam, Avignon and Istanbul, Graz, Genova, Linz, Essen, Marseille and, of course, Pécs, Košice, Maribor, Sibiu - former randomly listed cultural capitals of Europe. In 2023 a Hungarian and a British city can be admitted to this impressive list if the tender process is successful. The title is preceded by a multi-annual preparatory work. As a national authority of the Ministry of Human Resources, as the conductor of the tender, the city of Pécs, which boasts the title "European Capital of Culture 2010" is already working together as a mentor and organizer of informational events to create as many Hungarian applications as possible, and among them the independent international jury will be able to choose the best. After the publication of the call for proposals at the end of February, several Hungarian cities have already announced their participation in the competition. Thus Debrecen, Veszprém, Győr, Eger, Székesfehérvár, Szentendre, Szombathely, Miskolc, Tokaj and Hodmezővásárhely. Last year, the city of Pécs announced that he would not start again for the title, giving other Hungarian cities a better chance of cultural development and introduction. At the same time, the city of Pécs offered its mentoring services and, as promised, organised a conference last May for the cities wishing to participate in the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter, which was also renewed under the EKF programme, and this March we held an information day for the applicants. Pécs' experience with the title "Cultural Capital of Europe" is very positive, as the large scale cultural infrastructure development in the city, the ability to organise programmes of European quality, and the refreshing international relationship system have brought cultural prosperity to the county seat in Baranya, whose beneficial effects can be enjoyed by Pécs, but even the neighbouring Komló, even today, seven years after winning the title. The Kodály Center, the concert hall with the best acoustics in the country, is still full of married events of European quality, the Regional Library and Knowledge Centre in South-Transdanubia has become an emblematic building for the region, the establishment of the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter has saved Hungary from destruction, adding new Hungaricum to our invaluable cultural heritage. Before last year, Pécs was able to organize and successfully conduct a multi-site, European licence event, the European Cantat Festival, with four thousand participants from 50 countries. In the first and second round, the 2023 applications will be evaluated by an independent international expert panel. The deadline for the submission of applications is 20 December 2017. The project "European Capital of Culture" is important for both the city of Pécs and the cultural government, so on both sides we are guided by success and support for cities. It is already possible to say that, on the basis of the call for proposals, the jury will pay particular attention to the long-term sustainability of the developed cultural strategy, to the programme points focusing on Europeanism and international relations, to the broadening of the range of cultural consumers, to the needs of the local community and to the development of the city and to social engagement. These criteria are also 100% eligible by the Government of Hungary. It is important that Europe's new Hungarian Capital of Culture is able to show both its Hungarian and European character, its existing cultural values of international interest and its new cultural developments that will be used in the long term. It is also essential that you create your programme with the involvement and full support of local people, with their cooperation and at the same time for their benefit. I encourage all Hungarian cities to apply on behalf of Pécs with the title "Cultural Capital of Europe" and the programme's success. We wish everyone a successful preparation. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, representative of KDNP, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of Cardinal Bishop Kristóf Mígazi, Bishop of Vác. I give you the floor, Secretary of State, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-04-24-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Count Kristóf Majazi was the building bishop of Cardinal Bishop Vác, both in the strict and pervasive sense of the word. In parallel with the uplifting of architecture, faith began to grow in the city and the diocese, and the fundamental pillars of morality were firmly established. Vác, a city with a thousand years of history, had a prominent figure, and Vác is also regarded as a recreator of the 18th century. Count Kristóf Majazi, the Cardinal Bishop, lived in the century, to whom the city celebrated the 300th anniversary of his birth in 2014. His father, Vince Mígizi, fought in our country as an assistant to Jenő Savoyai and became a government advisor. He studied theology at the Collegium Germanicum-Hungaricum in Rome. CHAPTER III King Charles appointed him the auditor of the Rota Romana Court and entrusted him with the resolution of the conflicts between Vienna and Rome. She did her job so well that in 1755, Maria Theresa VI. He sent her to Ferdinand. They're following me to Spain. After that, he became Archbishop of Belgium, appointed Bishop of Vác in 1756, and then shortly thereafter as Archbishop of Vienna, and shortly as Cardinal. He did the most as Bishop of Vác, and under his bishopship he invested 600 thousand forints in his diocese. During the work of Cardinal Majazi, also known as the building bishop, the houses of the Baroque square of Vác were built, the only arch of triumph of the Basilica and the country, and his name is also preserved by the Episcopal church, the seminary and the orphanage. One of the most beautiful times in Vác's history was the time of his activity. During his government, the city flourished, creating the well-being of the population. He built churches, palaces, founded schools, organized arts, orchestras, and planted farmers and vine workers in the city in order to increase the population. Part of his fatherly care was the development of the city's administration, the planning of the city and the regulation. Bishop Majazi's attention extended to all the public's life manifests, for example he forbade smoking, punishing swearing, guarding the existence of good morals, determining the price of crops, and refusing to let his subjects be loan-sharked. The Bishop's social sensitivity is demonstrated by the establishment of a hospital suitable for the reception of 30 patients, and by the establishment of a poor house for the people who died, which he maintained from foundations and donations. The city was still of German character and was taught in German; it was the Piarists alone who the Viennese government could not force to speak German. The Vác high school gained national fame, consisting of six classes and two philosophy classes, first called the academy and then the líceum. It became a huge cultural factor, because, in addition to its seminary, it was equivalent to half a university. Citizenship continued to preserve its traditions inherited from its predecessors, which formed the basis for later civil morality, nurtured their pride, and strengthened their self-esteem. Their vital element was honest work. Bishop Majazi also regulated poverty. Only a beggar could have been poor with the burden of the city and received permission from the Holy See. In the court of each temple, the two of them could sit with their boxes. Once famous fairs have not lost their meaning. The freedom of trade was guarded jealously, and it was said that a good sale was only found where good shoes were baked and cheap wine was measured. And those two conditions were at the vaci fair. For the record, the ferocious market in Vác is still well known on earth, its partner is not in the area, and the market behind the White Church is in a unique atmosphere. [[15.00]] The city lived beautiful days under the bishopric of Majazi, but also faced severe trials; fire and water destroyed the settlement and brought some of the population into poverty. But even more serious losses were suffered when Majazi resigned from the bishopry. After his blessed building work, violence and destruction became the master. Today, however, Vác is on the rise again: it can be reached in half an hour by a modern motor train from the capital, its beautiful Danube-coastal diner and its cosy little streets attract visitors. Due to its exceptional concerts and unique museums, its unique exhibitions, it is rightly called the city of schools and culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Turgyán, Speaker of Armenian Ethnics, also applied for a post- Agenda speech:. The commemoration of the 102th anniversary of the Armenian Genocidium. I give you the floor.
u2017-04-24-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The larger part of the world these days remembers the victims of the Armenian genocide. According to historians, the internal problems of the Ottoman Empire and the events of the First World War led to the brutal destruction of nearly half of Turkey's Christian and Armenian minorities. However, we must look for the history of Turkish nationalism. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. From the beginning of the century, Turkish chauvinism was primarily directed against minorities within the empire, including Christian Armenians and Greeks. In the 1890s, after the repression of an Armenian uprising, approximately 300,000 Armenians were slaughtered in the empire. In World War I, Enver Pasa's report led to a repeated flare of hatred against the Armenians. Although there were a quarter of a million Armenians in the Turkish army, according to Enver, the Armenians were sympathetic to the Russians, so they are traitors.1915. On 24 April 2004, 250 Armenian intellectuals were arrested and executed that night. That's how the horrors started. More than 1.5 million Armenians and about half a million Greeks were collected. In part, they were to be deported to the Syrian desert; later, these unfortunate Christians were gathered into concentration camps in East Anatolia after their possessions were confiscated. The Turkish State did not provide for the feeding of the Armenian column. Turkish soldiers and civilians often killed, abused, tortured, raped Armenians and Greeks. Starving, the deadly fatigue of marching, and the mass of ordinary murders and massacres killed one and a half million Armenians. The focus of the horrors fell to the year 1915, but even in 1916 there were killings. A sad parallel, but Adolf Hitler's activity in mass genocide, even more numerically dramatic, was slow and towed compared to the deadly speed in which the young Turks got rid of their unsuspecting and loyal Armenian subjects. Bloodthirsty death squads began to exterminate men, women, and children without mercy and pity. As a spokesperson for the Armenian community in Hungary, I would like to stress that, although Turkish politics has been trying to silence, bagate or falsify what has happened to Armenians and Greeks since then, the facts show that between 1915-1922 Turkey, under the pretext of resettlement of the population, consciously wiped out about two thirds of the Armenians, approximately one and a half million people and then the same Greeks and other Christians. Dear Parliament, Armenia doesn't forget. The Armenian genocide was recognised as a fact by all the great powers involved in World War I. In 1985, the United Nations Subcommittee on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities officially recognised Armenian genocide. To date, twenty-four independent countries have issued official declarations in which Armenian genocidium is truly recognised as a historical event. It is extremely regrettable that Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, is still indebted to the legal and political recognition of genocidium, although it is now safe to do so after 102 years as a member of the EU. Genocide cannot be relativised, genocidium cannot be undone. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is politically the number one leader of the same Turkey, which is responsible for the death of one and a half million Armenian countrymen. On the basis of the result of the referendum held on 16 April, Prime Minister Erdoğan will continue to manage his country with full power, in a presidential system. Even before the referendum, the Turkish head of state carried out a large-scale cleansing in the army; tens of thousands are in prison because of their political views; thousands of judges and thousands of teachers have been suspended from their posts. Erdoğan arrested several members of the Kurdish People's Democratic Party and mayor of several settlements in Kurdistan. Let us hope that history does not repeat itself in this regard. Armenia and Armenian diaspora in almost every country in the world expect Turkey to finally acknowledge the fact of genocide and finally conclude this most terrible chapter in Armenian history. Dear House, The Armenian community in Hungary is divided. The operation of the minority self-government is no longer subject to manageable tensions. Our international relationship with our far-off motherland has been fundamentally damaged. There are no diplomatic relations between our countries; the Hungarian and Armenian governments maintain a hostile relationship. It would be a solution at least to restore and apply the system of honorary consular institutions and to launch mutual dialogue as soon as possible. The relations and prosperity of the Hungarian Armenian community are not supported either by the government's foreign policy strategy or by Turkey, which can be heard more and more frequently in turn with Azerbaijani war rhetoric. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Neither is genocidium denial. Genocidium, holocaust, holodomor, jihad - what's next? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and minority advocates, as well as a sporadic applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-24-206	Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:. Why is the government not doing anything to reduce the waiting time of several hours on the Hungarian border sections? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few years, I have spoken on several occasions about our ripped areas and the difficulties of travelling to Hungary from there. I recently spoke after the agenda on the cumbersomeness and slowness of cross-border rail transport. Jobbik is fighting for a better Hungarian future, where as a Debrecen it can be no easier than a pleasant Sunday afternoon trip to Oradea; it is a realistic option to work as a Győr in Dunaszerdahely or vice versa; and it is not impossible to move to Beregszász, while working on the other side of the border. Of course, this requires not only the development of transport infrastructure, but also the actual airing of borders across all border sections. We, Jobbikos, through our foreign members and sympathizers and the mailwriters who turn to us, experience every day the frustration and, in many cases, fear caused by an unbearable and incomprehensible waiting time of 4-6 hours or even more in the last few weeks among Hungarians from abroad. We arrived at the Serbian border around 1:30 a.m. About two o'clock we were waiting at the Hungarian border. Thanks to the new EU control, the two borders on the part of buses have been fully integrated. The next morning we were released at 11:30 a.m., which means 11 hours of waiting between brothers at the border. Car users weren't better off either. Someone wrote about a hooker on Facebook yesterday, "There's a lot of cars, the two borders come together." Don't go this way if you don't have to. Or here are some desperate lines of Transcarpathia:. All I had to do was go to Zahony, take the youngest child to the doctor, and it took me a day. At 9 a.m. it took me two hours to get through, even though there were only 20 cars in front of me. It's outrageous! The situation is unfortunately not much better on the Romanian-Hungarian or Croatian-Hungarian border, although it has certainly improved somewhat today. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On the part of Jobbik, of course, we are aware that border controls have been tightened at the external borders of the European Union due to the new Schengen Borders Code, which entered into force on 7 April. This means that the travel documents of citizens with free movement rights in the Union must now be checked both on entry and exit and compared to the Schengen information system and the database of stolen or lost documents of Interpol. So we know that, and we don't need to draw our attention to it separately. As it is clear to us that this regulation obviously did not strike the Hungarian government as a lightning bolt, but could have prepared for it in time. Compared to this, I think it is simply outrageous that you will let such impossible situations ruin the Easter of thousands of families occur at the Hungarian borders. [[15.10]] The Hungarians who wish to enter or return to Hungary, in Hungary and abroad, are not a fact of control, but are disturbed by the unpreparedness and slowness of the authorities of the Hungarian and neighbouring states. Moreover, it is also in the EU Regulation that a sufficient number of border crossings need to be opened in order to ensure that controls, which are otherwise of common interest, do not interfere with border crossings. The question is why these measures have been missed. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Someone from Transcarpathia recently wrote to me that 99 percent of the Hungarians here were affected by the problem of crossing the border. If this ever worked out, it would be a small miracle. It would be good not to wait for this miracle to reach the Government of Jobbik in 2018. We therefore demand that the government immediately eliminate the hopelessly squeamish lines of kilometers at the border. We find it amazing and unacceptable for mothers with small children to have to wait for hours without food and thirst at the borders of Hungary only because the Hungarian government refuses to send a sufficient number of border officers to the border crossing points concerned. Moreover, it is well known that in the case of Transcarpathia in particular, a rapid border crossing can save lives in a number of ways, since it can not only prevent the delivery of a military invitation, but also allow someone to receive professional medical care in Hungarian in time. So it is no exaggeration, Mr Secretary, to say that your irresponsibleness and negligence could cost Hungarian lives. Unfortunately, on behalf of an overly wide range of stakeholders, I therefore demand immediate action and answer the following. Why have not the right steps been taken in time to tighten up the Schengen control? Why hasn't the government been able to solve the speeding up of border crossings to Transcarpathia for months, even years? How could a similar scandal occur on the border sections of Croatia, Serbia and Romania? Finally, when would you like to take action on what you have said? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-24-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Following the entry into force of the Regulation on systematic border control, Member States should apply directly and without transposition. Unfortunately, the situation with regard to the introduction of systematic border controls has clearly demonstrated professional expectations: not only in Hungary, but also in the countries of south-eastern Europe, border crossing points cannot withstand such pressure. The implementation of systematic border controls between Italy and Croatia has already been suspended, the same has happened between Slovenia and Croatia, and this has also happened in Hungary, as although we have increased the number of passport holders in Hungary, we still had to take advantage of the possibility of suspending systematic border controls in both Serbian and Croatian terms. During the peak traffic, we switched to random checks. Of course, this suspension has a proper system, and we have made use of this announcement. During the Easter period, we tried to reduce the waiting time by means of work organisation, and the border control officers did not do the checks sitting in the booth, but did their work ahead of the waiting cars. In view of the experience, the Ministry of Interior will initiate the Government meeting to propose a suspension during the summer period. We are constantly checking the speed of the crossing, and Hungary, the Hungarian government, is open to making the necessary technical improvements, but I must at the same time indicate that cooperation between the partner countries is necessary for this. We also had to consider it as a great achievement that, in some aspects, common border control and joint control could also be initiated between motor vehicles, thereby accelerating border crossing to some extent. I trust that the partner countries will accept our offers for the summer period and that this will speed up the transition. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-24-210	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also asked to speak after the agenda with a title on the problems of the Cheats. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-24-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Csalag lies in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, in the district of Csorna, and according to the 2015 data, 493 souls live in it. The municipality is the 17th. At the end of the century, it was formed at a high point in the hany marsh world, and there was a time when only a boat could approach the settlement, there could be no other connection with the surrounding settlements. For this reason, it could be that families fleeing to the settlement, seeking protection, including Germans and Croatians, often moved here. Accordingly, the population's livelihood could best be managed by water-based means of fishing, stripping, peacocking and, of course, livestock, sheep and cattle farming. The name suggests this, and the tricksters can come from a word, because initially, because of the swampy location of the village, few people wanted to settle down, so they tried to lure people across in different ways. By the way, the village was a joint village of Bősárkány from 73 to 90, then it became independent again from 90. Perhaps it is worth mentioning the Roman Catholic church, the main altar and pulpit of which dates back to the 1700s. Besides, the National Park of Fertő-Hanság begins not far from the village, and through the village there is a cycling trail leading to the village, which, fortunately, attracts more and more tourists. Here, I think I've lost all the positives. I will try to be in my constituency, where I will be running for election next year, to keep in touch with as many citizens as possible, and to listen to them. This means, of course, a wide variety of opinions and positions, as I am not only meeting with city leaders, councils, spiritual and civil leaders, local businesses, service providers, farmers, workers in Austria or those working in the automotive supply plants, but, as I have said, I would like to share some information with you now, covering the entire population with farmers and intellectuals, and indeed during the conversation with the local population in Accalag. For the settlement to be no closer to the western border, it is surrounded by a network of roads - unfortunately the whole Rábaköz - which is amazing and creepy in many cases. As we get off the expressway, the quality of the road network will decrease for centuries, if you can put it that way. Each of the three most important road network quality parameters performs among the worst. Generally speaking, the constituency consists of ageing settlements, and the settlement image is also being destroyed in many cases. I would like to stress here that we are not talking about the error of the municipalities, because what is available in relation to their possibilities or which can be achieved through tenders is doing everything they can to the leaders of these smaller municipalities and municipalities. In many cases, the settlement image is made worse by abandoned houses that were typically purchased by foreigners in the 1990s for Bagatell, and in many cases since then the owner has become different with inheritance on paper, but they have often, in most cases, never visited the property or the settlement again, and are not available at all to the municipality. Several times, even every six months, in the form of a letter, they are asked to keep their own property in order, this does not happen, so, without exception, in almost every settlement in my constituency, one such abandoned property becomes a rat farm, the main distributor of the weeds, while the street front is, of course, kept in order by the municipality, but cannot legally enter the territory. So it would be good to finally have a meaningful reaction on the part of the government to our earlier proposals, and to come up with a solution that meets European standards, but it does make these ports viable. Many complained about the health situation, i.e. achieving health care, because small settlements are more difficult to reach, for example, hospitals. It is also interesting that during the Rába process, you can only die, not be born, while talking about a serious historical area, a serious historical landscape. Many municipalities say, and local residents also feel that even more than one year's delay in TOP applications is causing problems, as is the continued decline in funding of settlements. This is mainly, as I have already said, a problem for the elderly, because in many cases local governments work towards the outside world in the same way as the umbilical cord in the life of an elderly person, and this should not be lined up, broken down, but rather improved. So in addition to the programme "Modern Cities" we want Rábaköz and Hungarian villages to develop. We will also make amendments to the budget to be presented soon. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-24-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 2 May 2017. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:20 p.m.]]
