u2018-11-12-0	[[Szabó Timea is handing over a book to Dr. Bence of Retvári. The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament: László Molnár died in the 68th year of his life. László Molnár, born in Budapest, came from a family of farmers and traders, and started his political career in 1995 in the Independent Kiskazda Party. He was a member of the Parliament from 1998 to 2002. He obtained a mandate from the national list of the FKGP and was a member of the Group until 2001 and continued his work as an independent representative. During his term of office, he was a member of the Committee on Budgetary Affairs and Employment and Labour. I'd like to ask you to pay tribute to his memory with a silent setup. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, on 12 November, social work Day is celebrated worldwide as a sign of appreciation for society. The International Association of Social Workers initiated the Memorial Day in 1997 and was celebrated for the first time in Hungary in 1998. In 2016, the Hungarian Parliament held the III. on Social Administration and Social Benefits in 1993. has made a law of 12 November as the day of social work, which has become a public holiday for the institutions, service providers and workers in employment or in the civil service relationship. The idea of social solidarity and the need for social work as well as the natural interrelationship and desire to help individuals living together in society are the same age as humanity. Support for the fallen, poor and sick requires broad social cooperation, as even in the most advanced societies there will always be those who are left without financial or human support, temporarily or for the rest of their lives vulnerable and in need. Their embrace and support are the shared human and social responsibility of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, Social work is one of the noblest services, even when it is done as a paid employee. In addition to the possession of professional knowledge, this work requires real dedication and sacrifice, which cannot be taught or acquired with work experience within the institutional framework, these abilities come from the personality of a compassionate and willing person. This Memorial Day is suitable to thank tens of thousands of our fellow citizens working in the social field, who support not only the needy individuals but also social inclusion and cohesion in their daily activities. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches before the agenda are now taking place. For a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group, Ms Szabó Timea, Head of Group on Current Affairs, has applied. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's Social Work Day. We read on the website of the Ministry of Human Resources: On this day we will draw attention to professionals who help us every day of the year, looking after our fellow countrymen who need help. Social workers are tireless and indispensable workers in order for Hungarian society to be an inclusive, consensual and difficult community of solidarity with people. The government's primary objective is to provide moral and financial support to workers in the sector. Let's take a closer look at these lines of the EMMI. First of all, how the government financially and morally supports this nearly 100,000 people who are in a hopeless situation, trying to alleviate their daily suffering for families, children with a difficult fate, or our elderly disabled parents. According to KSH data, the average monthly net earnings of social workers last year was HUF 88 589, which is the lowest of the average national incomes. In any case, outside the social sphere, net earnings exceed 100,000 forints per month. We understand that the government of Viktor Orbán appreciates social workers so much that their official net income is lower than the minimum amount of living, i.e. HUF 90,000 per month. It wasn't worth a raise in ten years. But as soulless as the government treats the workers of the social sphere, it is just as cruel to those whom these people are trying to help. Between 2010 and 2016, Viktor Orbán made a cut of HUF 1200 billion on the most needy. He reduced and then stopped the benefits, took away the disability pensions; now the Constitutional Court has also judged that Viktor Orbán has not only lured them down, but has illegally taken away their stipend. But the government abolished early and advanced pensions, reduced sick leave, inhibited the value of family allowance and child benefit, and could still be classified for a long time. And what happened to saving a lot of people's suffering and scraping up 1200 billion forints? Overpriced public procurements; the suffering of millions of Hungarians served only to increase the wealth of the vastly fattened Lőrincek Mészáros and István Tiborcz. But in his moral blindness, Viktor Orbán did not even punish homelessness enough weeks ago. In the Orbán regime, poverty has become a sin. Let us return for a moment to the sentences on the EMMI website and quoted above in relation to social work. They are the tireless and indispensable workers in order for the Hungarian society to be a community of solidarity with the people in difficulty. We get it, right? Thus, the Government of Viktor Orbán seeks to ensure that Hungarian society is inclusive; no but especially solidarity with people in difficulty. Let's assume that this is not a bad joke on the part of the government, so we can assume that homeless people are also people with such difficulties, with whom Hungarian society should be solidarity, right? Because then I would ask the government representatives how Viktor Orbán and Árpád Habony's rags can publish such an article with such a title. [[He presents the newspaper Ripost.]] I will help you, in case you don't see my fellow pro-government Members, it says they're hiding in Parks and smaller subways. How long do homeless people take advantage of each of us's patience? Are they allowed to do anything? - Is this an instigation for solidarity? I also ask the Harrach Péter who is not here, but who said the other day that he is not concerned with police or public cleanliness, but is approaching this question as a social issue and a human side. Is this the human side, my fellow members of the government? [[13.10]] Is it the Orbán solidarity society? The fact that an old woman had to go to court because of you, because of your law, because of your partner's death, she was on the street? After 14 years together, after his partner died, family relatives wouldn't let him stay in the apartment. Is that his crime? Is that even a crime? Billionaire thefts of oligarchs linked to government parties, why isn't that a crime? Why is it only the sufferings of the poor for themselves, pro-government representatives? Viktor Orbán has already revealed the essence of his future governance in his speech leaked in 2008: it will be bad for some groups, many will be hurt. Lies are therefore a series of sentences on the EMMI website! Viktor Orbán is not simply indifferent to poverty, but is direct instigating against the poor. The government also wants to exterminate the Irish core of solidarity. We can't let that happen. We're not gonna let you do that in the Dialogue. We must maintain solidarity in society and bring morality back to politics. State resources for NER knights [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Instead of its wealth, it must be used again to reduce human suffering, and it must be put at the service of it. Let's talk about social worker's day. Thank you.
u2018-11-12-2	Before I gave the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári: Madam Group leader, I did not warn you, but unfortunately I was obliged to conclude that he had broken the rule of illustration in Parliament, as it should have been indicated an hour before the beginning of the meeting. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's just a Ripost!]] I would also like to warn Mrs Agnes Vadai that she should know later that this also applies to you. [[Szabó Timea: This is your newspaper, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. And now it's Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. [[Noise.]]
u2018-11-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam Congresswoman, Head of Action Woman! Dear House, Today, too, it is important to thank people who have really helped those who are in a difficult situation, either by birth, or because they have some kind of disability, or because they have changed their ability to work, or because they are in a situation where they need the support of the state and the help of the state to live their daily lives. More than 90,000 people who help those in need in their homes, in residential institutions or in other ways deserve recognition and respect on this day and on other days. Your speech was divided into two main parts. On the one hand, he expressed his thoughts here about the social sphere and the situation of the social sector workers, but he tried to spare the facts in his speech so that his thoughts would be braver and he could kick even bigger ones into the government, untruely. And the other one is about homelessness. Allow me to fix these, restore them. In 2014, we introduced a general social allowance in the social sector. This was only a sector-wide wage substitute. We spent 12 billion forints on this, and on average, it increased the wages of the employees here by 8800 forints, some of whom had 17 200 forints. This meant 90 000 employees making a pay-per-view step forward. You called for this basic rental, and for additional wage increases, which, in turn, would have taken away these surpluses from social workers when the minimum wage was guaranteed. In 2015, an additional HUF 7.6 billion was not entirely equal, but a wage supplement with higher education and a greater reward for those working in the profession. Sixty-six thousand people received an average of 16 thousand forints, but this was also at a different rate, which could have been up to 68,000 forints. As I said, this was a HUF 7.6 billion surplus in 2015. With the first sectoral pay gap, we wanted to help a general wage advance for social workers. The wage supplement, however, was differentiated. Exactly so that those who are better qualified do not leave the social sphere, do not go to work elsewhere, but to work here, because their work is even more necessary; their qualifications and experience are higher. In 2016, the combined sectoral bonus was also a HUF 7.6 billion surplus, so we were able to increase the wages of social workers by 17 percent on average over two years. As I mentioned, the increase in the minimum wage linked to professional qualifications has also affected many people. The doubling of this wage element was also a step forward for many, and it was also that in 2017 we provided HUF 7.5 billion in additional resources for those with a higher education degree. If you look at how much more people in the social sphere are getting now, you can see a pretty high amount of money, because since 2014, we have provided a budget surplus of HUF 103 billion in the last five years. You can also remember, of course, when in 2015 a month's wages were taken from the left-wing governments, with whom you are always running in an alliance in the election: well, they took a month's wages from all those working in the social sphere. We have tried to increase their wages and increase, for example, the number of domestic workers or others in order to provide additional human resources for additional tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There are many attitudes towards people in a socially difficult situation, or in a simpler way, to poor people. Your attitude is to keep people who, for some reason, are on the brink of society in need of help. [[Moraj, we're calling from the opposition benches.]] On the other hand, our attitude is to give these people job opportunities, training first public employment, then market opportunities for low taxes, more than 700 thousand people, so they can break out of poverty. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] There is no better social policy, honourable Member, than job creation. The parties in your alliance have increased unemployment, and we have increased employment. They increased poverty, a lot of people from Zsuzsa Ferge even said that on the left. [[A lot of noise, yells in opposition benches. Szabó Timea: Doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo! You put people in jail.]] On the other hand, fortunately, we have managed to increase the stability of people living on wages and salaries. [[The president's ringing several times. Cries from the opposition benches: Zsuzsa Ferge, you read it. Szabó Timea: Shame! A voice from Jobbik's benches:]] We have managed to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty by 1.3 million. And what you said about the homeless, honourable Member, is the most inhuman. You spoke here in Parliament so that people could continue to live in underpasses, street edges, or forests. [[Szabó Timea: No! Homecoming! Homecoming!]] And we want to help them. In recent weeks, 80 percent has barely reached the current saturation of homeless shelters. There's plenty of room. They can see everyone. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We formed a reserve fund with an extra 300 million forints to help all people. You wouldn't help us, we'd help you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Why are we worth less? Ms Ágnes Vadai, from the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-12-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The country is under severe restrictions. A significant part of these affected housing, people's right to home. You have taken away housing support as part of the Orbán package, and next year there will be no such extra-wage benefits. As part of the Orbán package, you have taken away the discounted apartment tax, which was left only for the Fidesz construction contractors. As part of the Orbán package, you have also taken away state support for housing savings. If someone maxed out the housing register, they received a total of 720,000 forints from the state in ten years, of course paid for a serious amount of self-esteem. You regretted so much about the Hungarian taxpayers. And then we could mention families evicted from foreign currency debt and utility debt, or even homeless people you've been chasing, who, at least, we can tell you are not living under conditions that suit our taste. I'm sure you'll agree with Secretary of State of Retvár. And your famous CHOK is more lethal than it can be recorded. What do we hear from across the border? That you will give 3 million 300 thousand forints each to buy a house in Vojvodina. Not in ten years, but in one, without any self-esteem or pre-saving. All this by paying the many times 3 million 300 thousand forints per person, not the cross-border ones, into the state register, but us Hungarian taxpayers. With our money, they regret 720,000 forints in ten years for Hungarian citizens, but with our money they don't regret paying 3 million 300 thousand forints at the same time to people across the border who don't give a penny. How is that, fellow Members? Whose representatives are you? Answer why the housing of a Hungarian tax-paying citizen living in Hungary is worth five times as much as that of a double citizen who has never lived in Hungary! [[13.20]] Answer me, fellow Members, why we are worth less than those from across the border when the Hungarian state makes a living with our money. Why are we worth less in our own country than those who don't live here? Or is it just that the price and exchange rate of Hungarian votes across the border went up? Now you have to pay 3 million 300 thousand forints? Because don't tell me, fellow Members, that this and all of your other moves are not buying votes. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Even say 23 million Romanians, and then you will be the standard of Gyula Horn!]] The Hungarian taxpayer works almost most in Europe one day and for one of the lowest wages. His wages will deduct one of Europe's highest labour taxes and then send him across the border. The Hungarian taxpayer works, taxes, but where he will live, you don't care. They'd rather buy his money cross-border. Is that why we should pay taxes, fellow Members? Should we pay the 27 percent VAT, the 15 percent sja, and the thirty-something special taxes that have been invented since 2010 to send the money out of the country? ! My fellow Members, I represent the Hungarian taxpayers, but you do not represent the Hungarian taxpayers. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We represent the nation!]] All you need is your money, our money. And I would very much ask you not to say that you are such great national turbo-hungarians, because this is exactly what Hungarians in Ukraine have seen. You just watched the Russian secret service get the data of the dual citizens, which then went to the Ukrainian nationalists, the Ukrainian extremists. Today they list the Hungarians who live there, and the anti-Hungarian billboards have already appeared. And you just stand there and watch and shake your fists from the very centre of the Carpathian Basin, because you think this will solve this problem. Give us one opportunity when, thanks to our policy, at any time under our government, Hungarians across the border have been put in such danger! You can't say that, fellow Members. [[Károly Kontrat: 5 December 2004]] So I ask you very, very much to keep your empty lonzunges to yourselves and to answer why a Hungarian taxpayer is worth less than a Hungarian person, or a person who is not even Hungarian, because they gave citizenship to someone who did not have any Hungarian ancestor and spoke Hungarian. [[Károly Kontra: Shame on you!]] who never lived here. And why are we inferior in our own country? If you don't think so, because I can imagine that you don't think so, then pay every Hungarian taxpayer 3 million 300 thousand forints per person to buy a house in one amount, without self-control. [[László Varju: That's right!]] Let's see if we're worth as much as anyone else in this world. If you can take care of one of these in two days, and you can take care of it, because we have seen how the housing funds have been ploughed, then prove that you can do it, and that the Hungarians living here are no less valuable to you than the Hungarians across the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-12-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, on behalf of the Government, responds to the statement made before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He mentioned several things. The Russian secret service was allowed into Hungarian institutions during your administration. This has also been found in the relevant procedures. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You have no proof of this!]] So you're not saying it didn't happen because you know it happened. I'm sorry you didn't read the news about the homecoming program. This program has already helped over 90,000 families. The VAT reduction programme, which will continue to be used, has just been declared by the Minister. For the two children, the home-building programme will be expanded [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! They can't use it!]] and further expansion of the home-building programme is expected, depending on the results of the national consultation that has just been launched, which is just as important. I am very sorry that they continue the worst traditions in 2004 when they again aggressively attack foreign Hungarians. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We didn't attack anyone, we only agree with János Áder in 2003.]] If I had to say one of the many examples of when you attacked Hungarians across the border, I would say that in December 2004. We all remember that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And it's been going on ever since. We listened to his speech with interest. These usually have three things in common: the country's results are being taken away, the government is being called into account in the matter of public money, and, by the way, in the case of democracy. As far as taxes are concerned, you have referred to this: the government is open to every proposal, every proposal for a living, but we do not hear that very much from you. But let me ask you this: wasn't it your government that tied this country to an IMF ventilator, where foreign currency lending was loose in its time? [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced the foreign currency loan in 2001!]] You drove hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families into debt traps. You have abolished a home-building program, reduced the duration of the land and child, took a month's wages and, moreover, increased energy prices to multiples. And your social sensitivity, as I understand it correctly, is well indicated by the fact that hundreds of thousands of people were on the streets during left-wing government, hospitals and schools in several parts of the country were shut down, while health care would have been paid off. Meanwhile, they claimed that this was not a austerity, but a dynamism of the economy. You're the one who said that. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] As a matter of fact, where public funds go: fortunately, the Hungarian economy is now so stable that it can support communities abroad and expand the home creation programme. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Orbán Rachel!]] Besides, we're wondering how people who basically squandered the national wealth for smoking can ask for it. If it were up to you, there wouldn't be one medium or larger company in Hungary today that could stand on your own feet, because you would have privatized everything if you had just given them a little more opportunity. But your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, had to pay attention to providing preferential electricity to his own company. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] In contrast, during the current government, Hungarian state wealth increased by several thousand billion forints. Last, about Hungarian democracy, because this is also often mentioned. We find it very difficult to accept lessons from democracy from those who, after their social support ran out, have cordoned around Kossuth Square, Parliament, who have shot at peaceful protesters [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's not peaceful. That's not true.]] and then they didn't even say that they were sorry, even those responsible, who were still able to vote in favour of a report against Hungary in Brussels, and who, even in their recent campaign, were able to insinuate Hungarians against Hungarians. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] But what is just as important, honourable Member...
u2018-11-12-8	Congressman Varju!
u2018-11-12-9	...in moral matters, we don't accept any lectures from those who lied to the sky when they were ruling, morning, noon, and evening. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is that the answer?]] I suggest you hear the fall speech again and think about why you're here, around 5% support. One thing we ask of you, however, is one thing. We do not have to agree on everything, as I see it, this danger does not threaten us, but we ask one thing: at least the Hungarian community from abroad should not be attacked, Hungarians should not be instigated against Hungarians. [[Laszlo Varju: This is what you do!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Varju, all I ask is that you calm down and listen carefully and patiently to everything that is said on both sides. It's Social Work Day! Mr Lajos Korózs, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-11	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I hope that Parliament will remember the day of social work in a worthy manner. It would also raise the dignity of Parliament if my fellow Members focused on this event, all the more so, because we have been celebrating the social work day in Hungary on 12 November for more than 20 years. For a moment, let us think of colleagues who work either in primary care or in specialist care, in basic care, either in the day care of the elderly, in social catering or in the village care and care services. And let us think of those who stand there at the nursing home night and day on a continuous shift, on holidays, and on weekends. And let's also think about those who work in different institutions and offices, because without the administrative work they do, I don't think we can do much better. And think of those, regardless of their maintainer, who work in a church institution, a civil society organisation or a local government institution. But we also need to think a little about those who are in the field of science, who are in education, because without their skills, this profession could not be renewed. [[13.30]] In the social profession, they are called optimistic doers who care, care, and counsel. We can rightly believe that politics, the government, recognizes their work, acknowledges their activities. In preparation for this speech before the agenda, I have looked up what the government said to this sector last year, on the day of social work. Allow me, I would like to quote three sentences from this alone. I stress that this was said on 12 November last year. The government's primary objective is to provide moral and financial support to workers in the sector. Wage increases are the most important tool to appreciate employees. By 2018, the average gross income in the sector will increase by 60-62 percent compared to the wages in 2013, the average gross wage in the social sphere will increase to 212 thousand forints in 2017, and next year, i.e. now, by 2018, to 233 thousand forints. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear fellow Members, People who know me, they know that I'm a pretty thorough person, I always look into everything or do the math. By 2018, they promised that the gross earnings would be 233,000 forints. On the other hand, in the social sector, gross earnings are HUF 153 253, according to the latest KSH publication, and the net average earnings, hold on, HUF 101 907. I don't think there's anything to comment on. I also think, and I would like to reiterate, that we are celebrating this day with dignity, because it is the first working day in the social sector to celebrate and recognise the activities of workers in the sector by public holidays. Think of the social workers who, at the time of today's opening, probably met dozens of invalids who are now trusting in the Constitutional Court's resolution, since on Friday, in the noon hours, the Constitutional Court decided on the submission of the Curia. As a result, its activities so far need to be reviewed with regard to the new provision of invalidity pensioners. It is well known to you that, from 2012, without any significant change in the health of a person, just because the government changed the rating rules, they have fallen from acquired rights, from our commitments in an international contract, which also declares the right to property, resulting in a reduction of 10 thousand, 20 thousand, 30 thousand forints for each person. I think we're gonna have to sit back and take a deep breath. We will, of course, support the Government if it meets the Constitutional Court's decision and by 31 March it will establish this law. But if not, I will now announce that the Socialist Party will prepare the parliamentary resolution proposal and will prepare the legislative provisions that will compensate and compensate the people who are disadvantaged. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I can only repeat the earlier ones for myself, we pay our respects to all those who are active today, yesterday and tomorrow in the social sphere, helping people who need help the most, giving hope to those who need hope the most. You said at the beginning of your speech, honourable Member, that these people must be respected, and this is also a good time for social work. I checked the voting record from 13 December 2016 to see if you supported the declaration of a day of social work as a public holiday. I can interpret your vote according to two logics: according to Hungarian constitutional law and the traditions of the European Union that we have recently learned in the Sargentini report. You didn't support any of the interpretations. According to Hungarian traditions, you abstained, and according to the new practice of the European Union, you did not vote on it. But not only did you not support the declaration of a day of social work as a public holiday, but also those Members of the MSZP who were sitting here as MEPs in Parliament, as did Márta Demeter or Sándor Burány, who has been the leader of the LMP since then. None of them supported a public holiday for social work. And you just stood up here and said how important it is to be respected. It would have been nice if there had been one or two courageous socialist Members who, despite the faction's instructions, had supported the day of social work to be a public holiday, honourable Member. I would like to reiterate that we have spent HUF 103 billion as additional resources on the extra wage of social workers since 2014. I would like to add that we will spend 409 billion forints on the development of the next few years in the social and child protection sector. From this, the funds dedicated specifically to children account for every fourth HUF, which is HUF 96 billion, which we use specifically and exclusively for the social assistance of children. In recent years, we have made a multi-stage wage increase. There was a sectoral wage supplement, and it was a sectoral wage supplement that helped social workers alike, and in 14 we increased the salary of 90,000 out of 12 billion forints, and in 2015 we increased the wages of 66 thousand out of 7.6 billion forints in the social sphere. In total, we raised wages by 17 percent between 14 and 16 percent with the combined sectoral wage bonus. You said the average wage is far from around the targets. Mr President, if you go up to the KSH website and look at the wage data you will find there in April, you will see that HUF 228 792 is the average wage for those working in the social sector, so by far not the sum you said was around HUF 100,000. And if you look at the increase between 17-18, you will see 48 850 forints. And if you look at the change in wages when you were on the government in 2008-2009, you see that it was minus 8 percent that you actually reduced the wages of social workers. Those who took a month's wages, who reduced the wages of social workers by 8 percent, say that now, in 2018, there are few average earnings of HUF 48 850, while between 2012 and 2018 there are few increases of 65 percent. This should include, obviously, an increase in the minimum wage of skills, the sectoral wage supplement, the sectoral wage supplement and the consolidated sectoral supplement. But that's 65 percent between 12 and 18 in six years, honourable Member. However, you have only shown how to reduce the salaries of workers in the social sphere. I would also like to tell you that the policy of the government on employment for the disabled has been confirmed by the figures. After all, while in 2010, 18 percent of those with disabilities who were able to work, who had jobs, who were able to support themselves not on some kind of state aid, not on aid, but on their own salary, from their own work, well, more than twice, from 18 percent to 40 percent in our period. The number of people employed thus increased from 5574 to 37 245 with contributions on the rehabilitation card introduced in 2012. The number of employers who benefit from such a contribution has increased from 3217 to 9125. The budget for rehabilitation employment for this purpose has increased by HUF 8 billion by 23 percent in recent years. This is how we wanted to provide the disabled with the opportunity to make a decent living. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. When can you expect the modern? publication of a village program? Mr Hohn Krisztina, from the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-15	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán contacted the mayors of small settlements in a letter before the parliamentary elections, in which he informed them about the programme called "Modern villages" or "Hungarian villages" since then. The main aim of the programme is to strengthen small settlements and to keep their inhabitants, because small villages and small settlements are particularly important for the Government of Hungary, and can be read in the material of the working group created by the National Association of Municipal Local Governments to accelerate processes, involving experts, local government associations and organisations, which is available to everyone on the Internet. [[13.40]] I hope that the programme will form the basis of what has been described there. On the kormany.hu portal, the last entry was made in July of this year: the biggest regional and rural development project in Hungary could be the programme of modern villages and small towns, the basic concept of which is expected to be presented to the government by the end of the year and preceded by a broad professional consultation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Several small town mayors have asked me to ask the authorities whether the programme will be presented to this House this year, and they have expressed concerns about whether small towns will take the funds away from them. It is a fact that this programme is needed by Hungarian villages as a piece of bread, because since 2014, the LEADER programme has perhaps been the only one that has really provided opportunities for small villages, but unfortunately the available resources, as far as the LEADER programmes are concerned, are quite small. Many of you must be familiar with the so-called regional operational programmes, which a former mayor called a stop, instead of a TOP. Well, this program has such a high level of urban slope that small settlements, and here I am thinking mostly of settlements of less than 500 people, do not score more than a thousand balls, because they are unable to meet the conditions. However, when the conciliation negotiations took place, and we were able to discuss our ideas together with our parliamentary representatives in one of the halls of the county municipality, we expected with great hope which of the many needs could be realised. Well, my fellow Members, many mayors were disappointed. It is an important question whether they want to use best practices such as decentralised forms of support in the preparation and future implementation of the programme. These were TRFCs, Teki, Leki, Teut, Teut. These forms were good because the mayors had a say in what their settlements needed most. It must be acknowledged that in the villages in particular, the mayor is the one who best sees it, you know, understands what your settlement needs. Every town and village, even the smallest, could benefit from these sources. It was very helpful, especially for small villages. We should be aware that the development needs of the villages in Hungary are much more territorial and localised than those of the cities, and it is extremely difficult to generalise, as it does not matter what the transport geographical possibilities and the composition of the population are. There are many settlements where buses rarely come in, there is no local shop, there is an ageing population, there may be more people living in extreme poverty, or there are not fully built utilities. So the countryside cries out for help. There can be a solution for this the program "Modern" or "Magyar választó" program. But there are a lot of questions. For example, if they are planning to implement it from domestic sources, then when can villages count on it, as next year's budget does not contain resources that could be spent on it. What is the amount of development resources, and how long will it take to draw them down? What kind of apparatus are you thinking about? 'Cause we're gonna need this, too. You must know that there is already a system of development institutions closest to the settlements, which would be suitable for full management, since everything is given, experience, trust, local knowledge and expertise. These are the local LEADER organizations. Do they only think about local development or the implementation of civilian ideas or business development? Finally, where is the development of the program "Modern" and "Hungarian villages"? I look forward to your honored answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Tuzson. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think the question you're asking me right now is a very important question. Allow me to approach you from a little further away, because from a country's point of view, when entering such a programme, you need to ask yourself what you want to do with yourself in a 20-30-year-old perspective. And when we raise this question, we should basically agree that the answer here is that we want to make Hungary a more livable country, a liveable country that can take a leading role from this point of view to Europe as a whole. You know, when we talk about this programme, we also need to ask ourselves what areas we need to move forward most in order to achieve this basic objective. Obviously, this is the system of family support, including housing support, such as the institutional system for economic development and the development of cultural issues. If you imagine these three areas in front of you, you can also see how much progress is needed in these settlements in the next period. We are talking about settlements of less than five thousand people, in settlements of less than five thousand inhabitants there are one third of the country, so there are many people living in these settlements, and most of the settlements, out of the 3200 settlements, there are 2887 settlements that belong to this category. So the task itself is great. And when we talk about such a big task and we talk about resources, we always have to deal with these questions in a complex way. So such a program does not mean that we start a stream in which we put everything, but that the state, the institutional system of the state, needs almost all areas to work in these areas. For example, the issue of public administration, management management. To talk about my own territory, about public administration, like the government bus program. The point is that the services in these municipalities can be used as much as possible. Not all services can be delivered to the smallest settlements, but we must strive to ensure that all services from small settlements are available. There can be no difference between a citizen and a citizen in the country, Hungarian people and Hungarians because they live in another settlement. So if you live in a city, you should be able to use the same services as living in a small settlement. And in these settlements, therefore, services must be made available. In the area of job creation, to answer your question, it is not just municipal development, but also in the area of education development; so I could list all sectors that belong to the quality of life of people. There was a time when they sought to do so in Hungary, especially in the period of the previous government, when the whole point was to dissemble, so to say, to push back the small settlements. We'd rather try to do something else. The whole point of this program is that instead of being a choice between quality of life, so if you move to a city, you observe a higher quality of life than if you stay in a village or move to a village; it's more like a lifestyle, a lifestyle change. In this sense, we would like to strive for the programme to address these issues in all areas, including in financial areas, in the various disciplines, so that it can support these issues, the issue of staying in the villages. And only part of it is able to appear separately in the budget. By the way, such a item will be available from January onwards, i.e. from the beginning of the following year, HUF 150 billion will be available, allowing several participants to start implementing this development programme in the framework of various programmes and proposals. So this will appear in several areas. After all, when we think about this issue, there are three basic areas: the government on one hand, the municipalities on the other, and the cooperation of the various organisations on the third side is also a necessary constitutional obligation, and I note in brackets that this program can be successful, and that the Hungarian village can really be a Hungarian village, and a village that we can be proud not only of in a few years' time that these villages were, but also that there will be existing villages, which our children will be proud of. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech before the agenda: "How long does power abuse the patience of social workers? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a great responsibility to speak out for 93,000 others, especially in this House. [[13.50]] It is a great task when it comes to 93,000 people who make the lives of another 800,000 people easier or make that 800,000 fate even liveable. I claim that each of the 93,000 social workers I speak for today is doing more important work in this country than the Prime Minister. Every day, they have human lives in their hands, and often take responsibility for their own missions that are impossible. Sacrifice, resignation, and empathy are many, for whom these are just empty words, but for them they are part of everyday life. When you guys jumped into your air-conditioning office at 8:00 a.m., these people took a bus or a bike to work, they started the day a long time ago. When they searched the press over their morning coffee and looked at what they had written about themselves or about us, these social workers were taking diapers, bathing or feeding the helpless people they trusted. When we are debating each other here in this House, they turn with patience to those who have no one left to speak to. Let us pause for a moment, fellow Members, and ask the question: will these people do more on this Monday than we do to make this world a better place? Who is doing the most important work today, a social worker or a Member of Parliament? You and we need to put a hat in front of them. Today, on social work day, there is a good word and thanks to them for this superhuman work that these people put on this country's table every day. But not only would they be thanked once a year, dear ladies and gentlemen, but also at last normal wages and decent working conditions, all the days of the year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Fidesz and KDNP Congress, it's up to you, and it's up to you that social workers at last don't tell their first-timers to run, and that's what they're doing. Of course, someone on the government's side, perhaps you will be, Mr State Secretary, that will stand up, and you will tell me first and foremost the same panels that you have already told some of my fellow Members, which describe how much Fidesz has done for this sector since 2010. Mr Secretary of State will list how much the wages have increased, how the working conditions of the workers have improved, and what institutional development programmes have been implemented, and after the Secretary of State has finished listing the results of the government, he will look at me asking me what the hell is wrong with me, because I have never been more sought-after and I have never had better working conditions for social workers in Hungary than today. The reality is, on the other hand, that the material and moral prestige of the social sphere workers is beneath the bottom of the frog. Even if you bring the statistics here, Mr. Secretary, these people don't feel the same way or the same way, they don't read the statistics, they say that on the basis of their experience. The reality of your communication is that one person does the other four jobs, and the working hours are not defined by hours, but by sight to blindness. The reality is that the only thing keeping these social workers at work and in Hungary is the one that called them into this career: the sense of responsibility and empathy, the knowledge that if they also leave, they have to turn off the lights. The reality is that in your two-thirds country, who is poor, fallen, sick, disabled, elderly, unemployed and homeless, that is all an unnecessary burden for you. These people must be released in your two-thirds country and not taken care of. And yet, whoever does this for you, who is willing to make iron rings of wood, just because of some humanity, will be impossible with all the means available. There will be no need to feign indignation, dear members of the government, nor need to reject this statement. Why don't you go around the newsstands and ask for a friday Ripost, look at the front page of this rag you printed, read those lap letters. The front page that your former communist kept there, Miklós Omolnár, is allowed to go far beyond himself. There it was not merely a conscious incitement to a few thousand people, where your unconscionable, inhuman system showed itself in its complete reality. Mr. Secretary. Dear members of the Government, Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, How long are you going to abuse the patience of social workers? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you think you're allowed to do anything? Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think social workers deserve a third thanks on behalf of the government for the work they do every day of the year. Obviously, this is a task that is not a job, but a profession who does it is doing it out of a sense of professionalism, and because it cannot go without a word with the people in need, but also feels the urge from within to help them. And the state must provide only help, opportunity, background and security, obviously an incentive for the career drivers to choose this, and to do so either in a home assistance facility, in a boarding facility or in any other circumstances, or in professional care centres as soon as possible, but we should also help our fellow citizens who, for some reason, have been put into a more difficult situation by life. That is why it is important for the state to take care of them and provide security for them. At the same time, while you have spoken nicely about the social work day, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you may have missed it, but then at the next group meeting, you should refer it to the fellow Members who were here during the previous term, and on the afternoon of 13 December 2016 they voted to declare the day of social work as a public holiday, why they did not support it. Not only did their party president not support you, Gábor Vona, but none of the better representatives supported the vote of the day that is now a public holiday. This was the title of the presentation:. The declaration of the day of social work to be a public holiday. Fidesz and KDNP supported this, and you did not support it on the part of the opposition parties. There was only one opposition representative who, because of voting in favour of the governing parties, was one, there was no one from Jobbik who considered the respect of social workers more important than the ongoing conflict with the government, opposition and daily political battles. You have also mentioned, honourable Member, the increase in wages, which has already been mentioned today. Over HUF 100 billion in surplus is what we have spent on this in recent years, and this has also increased the salary of those working in the sector by 65 percent in six years, between 2012 and 2018, and I have already mentioned the average salaries that it has raised to the neighborhood of HUF 230 thousand, and we can talk about an additional HUF 50 thousand surplus in the last two to 2.5 years. But it is also important that social workers are able to work in the best possible conditions, so it is important to have more than HUF 400 billion in development that both the social and child protection sectors can spend for very important purposes in the coming years, of which nearly HUF 100 billion is used to help children. It is also important to ensure that social workers not only get a wage increase year after year, not only improve their working conditions, but also help them to avoid being burned out by the psychological strain involved in this work and to help their professional advancement. That is why it is important to spend one billion forints on maintaining and helping the human side of the work of social workers, as the many difficulties and problems they face every day are obviously the many failures that social workers report to them every day, causing them great spiritual difficulties. That is why it is important that in the coming years we also try to help to preserve this kind of mental health for over 90,000 social workers. It is also important to be able to participate in professional training programmes, to participate in a renewed training system, and to experience the possibility of professional renewal, its perspectives. We spend 12 billion forints on this, so that those who work in the social sphere can develop professionally and demand this, of course in terms of free training. At the same time, the most important thing for the government for beneficiaries is the principle of work instead of aid. In the case of over 700,000 people, we have already been able to do this, and those who used to live on welfare are now living on work. There are over 700,000 of them, they are one of the biggest winners of this new economic policy and this new social policy, which does not rely on aid. And the liberal chorus, which you have joined in the matter of the homeless, honourable Member, is saying that we should give everyone the right to live in public areas at risk of their lives and health, compared to this, in the name of Jobbik, who once held social order and who is important in helping them, now speaks like liberals, and does not say that, yes, these people must be helped. [[14.00]] In the homeless shelters, as I said, the capacity was not more than 80% tied down, we provide an additional HUF 300 billion this year, all of which are homeless. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's for your own good. Honourable Congressman, It is difficult to break out of homelessness without going to homeless shelters and using public help we are trying to provide additional resources and extra help. We're sorry that you're not partners in this, but you're also rolling the mill for the liberals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the KDNP Group, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, applied for a speech before the agenda:, responsible participation of citizens in political decisions. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2018-11-12-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say two sentences about the social worker's day. In the morning, hundreds of people working in this area attended the Upper House Hall, where we were able to welcome them on the day created by the first civil government, and which later became a public holiday for them. Truly, respect for those who do this difficult work. However, today's topic is that we are familiar with the issues of the national consultation. Many people have expressed their views on these issues and about the genre, which is what I am doing now. First of all, the genre. I feel that the credible event of democracy is consultation, just like the choice, but there is a substantial difference between the two. The choice is like a 100-meter run, where the participants will have an equal chance on the start line, and finally the winner, whose ability, preparedness, strength was better; of course, the end of which is to judge the course itself or the target photograph, but the result is important. There is no such competition in the consultation, the essence of the consultation is that the government has a definite idea, it asks citizens about it, and if the answer is yes, it makes the decision, if not the answer, it postpones the decision; this has already been the case. And what can we tell you about the content? It deals with the population situation and is about the safety of families. We are aware of the population situation, because about 40,000 are the numbers that exist between birth and death data, of course this is similar across Europe, not about Hungaricum, but about a European problem, but I think it is not a question that develops over a year or two. Demographers put the year from which this difference began to grow in 1981, but the process started in 1960. I think the healing will be long. When we talk about the support of families, we need to see that this is already the result, the numbers show it now, but the fact that it has not yet been able to significantly compensate for the difficulties that we see on the Corpha, which is basically a continuous decline in the parent-bearing age group, is why we need to increase support and strengthen the desire to have children, because predictability is what helps this process the most. Predictability requires a positive answer to one question, i.e. apologies for the expression! the family support system must be cemented, it must be given protection that cannot be decided, for example, by a series of measures such as the Bokros package at the time, or, for example, the measures taken by the Gyurcsány government in 2008 [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Plan Kálmán Széll!]] which also destroyed the system. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And the plan of Kálmán Széll?]] So predictability is very important. One of the most important issues of this curve, which is ahead of us, is the question of full-time motherhood, because we must state that there is no free choice for a woman who has a child, because she cannot choose one of the three options. You can choose to work, but you can't have children; you can choose to have one or two children and work alongside them is not easy, but you can - but the fact that you have four or five children while you're working is not going, but you can't stay home either, because it's hard to make a living on a salary. It is therefore a legitimate question of being a full-time mother. We could talk about a few more issues, such as support for employment, which also happens, and support for young, family-based couples. We all remember there are dreams [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's plans, there's joy, but in many cases, they're poor at starting a family. Many such questions should be answered, and citizens will do so, and they will be part of political decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ms Katalin Novák, State Secretary, responds to the statement by the group leader before the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear fellow Members, We have also launched this national consultation because Europe is facing a very serious challenge, it is facing a very serious challenge, not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole, because today we can say that there is no European country where there are enough children, there is no European country today where there are so many children that they can even maintain the current population, so Europe is suffering from population problems, Europe is a continent of empty cradles. At the same time, there has also been a migration towards Europe, so there is the population problem on the one hand, and the migration pressure on the other has to give an appropriate answer to European leaders, which is what we need to answer in Hungary. This is also the reason for this national consultation, because the question is how do we see the Hungarian future: in Hungarian children, in support of the birth of Hungarian children, or in replacing the missing Hungarian children with migrants? This is one of the issues in the national consultation, but in general, as the group leader raised the genre of national consultation, it is perhaps worth giving some thought to this too. We also launched this national consultation because we are counting on people's feedback. After two government cycles, one after another and at the beginning of a third government cycle, we look forward to receiving feedback from the Hungarian people on what direction we should take in family policy, what direction we should continue, where we should go, what decisions we should take. We look forward to the opinion of the Hungarian people on important matters of fate, and the great advantage of the national consultation is that everyone can participate in it, everyone can fill out these national consultation sheets, everyone can send it back to us. I hope that as many people as possible will benefit from this democratic right, opportunity and participation in this national consultation. We are interested in the opinions of everyone, not only their mothers, but also their fathers, not only their parents, but also their grandparents, and indeed also those who are still young people who are about to have children, because they may be the ones who are most affected by these questions. What we need to understand most is how we can help them to fulfill their desires, their ideas, and to approximate the number of children actually engaged and the children originally planned. Because today young people in Hungary imagine their future in a family, want to live in a marriage, want to raise children, on average more than two, than typically two. In this we would like to help the young Hungarians, how they can enforce these desires. What has happened since 2010 in the area of family support is, I think, quite a few, but we can't say that we can just sit back and have a lot of work to do. We have doubled the budget for family support, and we are now spending twice as much on family support as in 2010. The family tax relief has indeed been introduced and is constantly being increased, including next year. We have introduced a very serious home creation program; we have returned the third year of the child, introduced the ged extra, or even the free textbook supply, the free children's meal or the Elizabeth camps. We built a cradle, and today 220,000 women owe it to the 40, and the family thanks to the 40, the grandmothers are back in the family. [[14.10]] For 20 years, childbearing has not been as high as it is now, nor has the number of marriages been so high, all population indicators have moved in a positive direction in recent years. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Only children are not born.]] At the same time, we still have work to do, we still cannot sit back, we want to make new decisions that serve Hungarian families and put Hungarian children first. One of these issues is indeed one that wants to give two-thirds protection to these laws, to measures that support families, because unfortunately we have bad examples. We know the examples when they took away the home creation programme, took away the third year of the child, abolished the system of family tax relief, practically completely destroyed the family support system at the time of the left-wing governments. This would not be good for it to happen again, so we want family policy to be long-term and predictable in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We raised the family allowance last!]] That is why we need two-thirds protection from these laws, these subsidies. The national consultation is also about the protection of children, as our children are now threatened by dangers that were not yet 10-20 years ago. We must also prepare for these dangers, we must equip them against them. We would also like to give new subsidies to families with Hungarian children and young people who are about to have children, as we see how difficult it is to get on their own, how difficult it is to make the first decisions about starting a family. [[László Varju: For whom? Zsolt Gréczy: István Tiborcz was not difficult!]] We would like to give further support to this, as we would like to help full-time mothers, we would also like to help those who have taken on at least three children for a lifetime, and who are still working, and are trying to do their part in all areas of life. I would ask all of you to fill in the questionnaire for the national consultation and to participate in this process. Decide on the fate of the Hungarian people! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-26	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Csaba Hende, vice-president of the Parliament, applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Fidesz Group on current issues. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fact that illegal migration is organised and financed at least in part by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and by the European Union has recently been confirmed. One looks at the reports of migrants' anonymous credit cards in disbelief. On the resurgence of the Balkan route, many illegal migrants see anonymous credit cards that regularly withdraw money from ATMs. They are handing out cards filled with EU, Soros and UN money to migrants, and they are free to withdraw cash from it. This programme is shocking and has a huge security risk, because terrorism or smugglers can be financed with the money they receive. According to press information, these cards receive monthly money and are issued by the competent authority in Greece. There are hardly any conditions for issuing a card. It does not even need to be in refugee status on our continent, it is enough to have no job, it is over 18 years old and it arrived in Greece after January 2015. The territorial scope of the use of cards is also increasing, as they can be used in more and more countries, now after Greece in Bosnia. This programme was set up by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and four other organisations, including the European Union's Directorate-General for Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection, and is financed by the European Commission, of course, through European taxpayers' money. Reliable sources say that credit cards have a secondary market where migrants buy and sell them anonymously and who knows who else. There's no telling who these credit cards and these money are going to end up with. However, it has now been discovered that a total of EUR 57,6 million, or some HUF 18 billion, was planned to be distributed on this trip only in 2017 and until August 2018 83 792 I repeat: 83 792! individuals have already received anonymous credit cards. They did so despite the fact that such a financial product could not be placed on the market at all according to the regulation on the prevention of money laundering and the regulation on the prevention of terrorist financing and the decision on the transparency of financial transactions. Dear Parliament, Obviously, these anti-terrorism and money laundering rules are rightly so strict that, for example, a friend of mine who works at the European Commission in Brussels bought an apartment in Hungary. He took out a loan from a Hungarian bank for this purchase, and imagine that it was not possible to transfer his credit payments directly from his bank in Brussels, but first to a bank account opened in Hungary, and then to transfer it from there in order to have full traceability and security. Now let us compare this restriction, this additional limit, with the procedure in which the same European Union acts in relation to anonymous credit cards distributed to migrants. Obviously, we do not understand this programme, we cannot agree with it, we find it unacceptable because of its risks. Dear House, A new wave of migrants is expected on the Western Balkans route in spring. According to reports, thanks to our efforts, Hungarian border protection is stable and the authorities are prepared to handle the expected new wave. Dear Parliament, Let us support our police and our soldiers in their solid position, both within and outside these walls. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Vice-President, before the agenda, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There are still a few months before the elections to the European Parliament, but it can already be said that everyone is starting to put their cards on the table. It is already clear what kind of plans and leaders each party family is going to start with, which is, by the way, the most important of the elections to the European Parliament. For example, we already know that if it were up to the European socialists, Frans Timmermans would be the President of the Commission, and we also know that the Hungarian socialists enthusiastically support this endeavour. They have already made a declaration of loyalty, they are supporting a man who would open Europe's borders and open Europe's doors. For years, he has been in favour of compulsory resettlement, and he believes that those who refuse to do so should pay money and fines. By the way, that is not all, because despite all the bloody attacks, Mr Timmermans says there is no connection between migration and terrorism. And he's qualified us Eastern Europeans with no experience of diversity. If he means that we should let in half the world and its problems, then we wouldn't want to have them. Then there is the group of liberals, and as far as we know, they have not yet clearly named a list leader, but everyone knows that Guy Verhof-stadt shares the cards there, and represents radically liberal things in a bloody way, as if they had any majority support or support in Europe. He was the one who campaigned for yes in the quota referendum campaign, and who personally launched a campaign against Hungary and the Hungarian government a few weeks ago. This is not surprising either, if we know that it represents virtually the opposite of the Hungarian Government, because it believes that immigration is necessary, that young people should come to Europe and say this as if it were an economic issue, not a security and cultural issue. By the way, if Mr Verhofstadt decides to launch a campaign against Hungary and the Hungarian Government, I would also like to say here in front of the House that the government will not leave this behind. He hasn't left without saying anything, and he won't. For our political family, one thing is certain: security will be the main issue. This also means that only the European People's Party will be able to find parties who oppose immigration, and on the other hand, the Hungarian opposition is sitting in families of parties who would open the gates of Europe and are pro-immigration. Dear House, The fact is that the clock is ticking, at least until the elections, the clock is not working for us, because while they have no authority to do so, they want to finalise plans and procedures to support and permanent immigration in Brussels. [[14.20]] A new institutional system is now in place: with a card filled with money, a simplified visa, resettlement programmes and the adoption of border protection law would make migration easier, making Europe and Hungary virtually completely vulnerable. We now know that the migrant cards with which immigrants could obtain cash without any substantive checks are also financed by public funds, and that the situation has been completely unsustainable, that immigrants have received the equivalent of tens of thousands of forints for the announcement, while European citizens are never given such an opportunity. We also know that the European Parliament is discussing migrant visas again this week, which are misleadingly referred to as humanitarian visas, while we are very well aware that this is not the case. We also know that the resettlement quota is still around the negotiating tables, and if we don't pay attention, anytime! They'd make him accept it. Finally, we also know what the new seven-year draft budget says: that they want to spend double as much money for migration-related purposes, mainly at the expense of the traditional EU development programmes that are now running. This is, therefore, a completely unacceptable immigration package, a virtually irresponsible gamble with the future of Europe. We do not want a migrant card, a migrant visa, or open borders or resettlements. We do not want to spend money on immigration, but on Hungarian families raising children. The stakes in the European elections could therefore not be greater: an open society or a Europe of nations, and there is no question where our political community stands in this debate. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speeches that are not on the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-31	Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; László Varga, MSZP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda on Tuesday: Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Dialogue; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Borbély Bangóné, Ildikó, MSZP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; János Latorcai, KDNP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. Szabolcs Szabó, independent; Péter Ungár, LMP. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-11-12-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on proposals for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee initiates the Parliament to depart from the house rules on this day's sitting by saying that Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria is a Polish ethnic advocate on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the recovery of the independence of the Republic of Poland before deciding on the agenda proposal. It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/3404. All my fellow Members will be able to get to know you on our website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It may speak for a period of five minutes by applying paragraph 5. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/3404. All my fellow Members will be able to get to know you on our website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 166 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The House Committee also initiates the National Assembly to depart from the house rules on this day of the meeting by saying that Félix Farkas is a Roma minority advocate before making his decision on the agenda proposal. It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/3403. All of you will be able to get to know him if you look at the Parliament's website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 164 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria, who spoke before the Polish minority agenda, will now take place for a five-minute period on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Poland, in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule. I give the speaker to the woman who speaks the first sentences according to our custom in her mother tongue, then translates them into Hungarian, and she already speaks the rest in Hungarian. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2018-11-12-33	Szanowny Panie Marszałku, szanowni posłowie, szanowni rzecznicy, witam wszystkich bardzo serdecznie. Mr President, Honourable Members, Dear Speakers, Welcome, everyone. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak. I know that the end of the First World War brought Trianon to Hungary, but as a spokesperson for Polish nationality, I would like to share with you the great joy that our mother country is once again a free, independent country. Just yesterday, on 11 November, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of regaining Polish independence, and Poland returned to the map of Europe on this day after 123 years of absence. Thank you for being able to celebrate with us, despite all your pain, at the centenary of this Polish Memorial Day. In many cities, they staged lights, decorated your Lanchi with Polish flags, and it was nice to see the enthusiastically waving people who saw the Polish ensign car parade. I know that you understand our joy and our sense of national pride, as the Hungarian nation has suffered for a long period of time from the occupation of foreign powers and, like the Poles, struggled a lot to restore its self-determination. Poland is the 18th. At the end of the century, he lost his independence, and his territories were under Russian, Prussian and Austrian rule. Poland was wiped off the map of Europe, but as a nation it survived the period of occupation: it guarded its language, traditions, culture, lived in strong Christian faith and deep conviction that Poland would regain its independence. A part of the Polish intellectuals left the country, mainly emigrating to Paris to create freedom, to create great patriot works, and thus to keep the spirit in the nation. [[14.30]] That's where three national uprisings were prepared. Unfortunately, all these freedom struggles have been crushed, but faith has not been taken away from the Poles. Meanwhile, in politics, greatnesses have come to the scene, without whom 100 years ago, in all likelihood, it would not have been possible to regain state independence. One of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, who led Woodrow Wilson to include in his famous speech the restoration of Poland's independence as point 13, and all this was included in the Versailles peace treaty signed by the United States. The other personality was the charismatic Józef Piłsudski, who perhaps did the most for Poland's independence in 1918. This, however, was not enough to recover, and it also had to be preserved, which the Poles experienced within two years. In the battle called a miracle in Vistula, not only did they defend their country against the Soviet army, but they also saved Europe from the union and takeover of Russian and German Communists. But I will commemorate this in two years' time, with the permission of Mr Speaker. My speech to the great Polish patriot Saint II. I conclude with the appropriate words of Pope John Paul: "The gift of peace is not only a gift to us, but also a task. It is a task for all of us, for Poles, for Hungarians and for all of us, for whom concepts such as freedom, independence, home and honor are of great moral value. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. Dziekuję za uwagę.
u2018-11-12-34	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. I'll ask if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. Yes, I'm giving Gergely Gulyás the Prime Minister's Office the opportunity to respond. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker Woman, Dear Parliament, Hungary has been a constant friend of Poland for a thousand years. For a thousand years, we have been on the same path together, together with the desire for free life and the hope for independent statehood. There is a connection between Christian and European culture and the fact that, despite our possible debates or misunderstandings, we have always been able to count on each other. We could count on each other when we were trapped between the realms of the East, the West and the South fighting for our freedom, for the preservation of our culture, our mother tongue and our way of life, for the preservation of our national communities. Not only do we share a common destiny, we share a common hero in centuries of freedom struggle. Poland regained its independent statehood a hundred years ago. If a fair decision has been taken to establish peace in France, with tragic consequences for many states, then the restoration of Polish statehood after 123 years. Joyful, but extremely difficult times still awaited the Poles, they had to fight for their established independence, while they had to establish a new state in their country of return from the three empires. For Hungary, November 1918 brought difficult months and years that led to the Trianon tragedy. However, we are proud that in these extremely difficult times we were able to support the Polish patriots who were fighting for their freedom at that time. During the decisive battle, during the magic of Vistula, the Hungarian shipment of ammunition also contributed to the preservation of the independence of Poland, which had recently regained its freedom. Polish freedom remained, and the Polish army was able to prevent the Bolsheviks from occupying Central Europe 20 years earlier and perhaps Europe as a whole. The end of World War II, no matter when, in what form, during World War II, he stood on which side, when he invaded the country, brought further oppression to both peoples. During the communist dictatorship, both peoples suffered a great deal, but we also remained friends in trouble. We could give a long list of examples of how the soldiers of the Home Army were protected in Hungary, how the demonstrations in Poznań became a Hungarian revolution in 1956, what 1956 meant in Poland, and what solidarity meant in Hungary, what the Gdańsk shipyard meant and what it meant in Hungary. The person of Pope John Paul and the experience of the common system change. Dear Parliament, Polish-Hungarian friendship is therefore not only the past, but also the reality of the present and the way to the future. The historical relationship between the two countries makes it possible to understand better than ever before and is the basis for joint cooperation between the Visegrád Four in the European Union and Europe as a whole. If we want to live freely today, if we want to preserve our culture and language, our way of life and our national community, then we must continue to work together as friends. Speaker László Kövér referred to it at the inauguration of the statue of Piłsudski at the XII. in the district, that we are in a community of fate, we are in a community of fate with the Poles in a Europe that denies both fate and community and makes them the subject of debate. Therefore, on the 100th birthday, at the 100th centenary of Polish statehood, God bless Poland, God bless all our dear friends from Poland!
u2018-11-12-36	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now, Félix Farkas' speech before the roma minority spokesperson's agenda in five minutes' time: "Remembering the victims of the Roma murders." I give the floor to Mr Félix Wolverine, a Roma speaker.
u2018-11-12-37	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, It has been ten years since racist attacks on our fellow gypsy citizens. Galgagyörk, Piricse, Nyíradony, Tarnabod, Alsózsolca: these settlements attempted murders against Roma in 2008. Several wounded at the five sites, death, thanks to the good Lord, have not yet been here; unlike in Nagycsechen on 3 November 2008, when two deaths were claimed by the racist armed attack. Molotov cocktails and weapons attacked the two houses of the settlement. Tiborn the Great, Joseph the Great, had to die because they were gypsies. On 23 February 2009, at dawn, a 28-year-old man and his five-year-old son were shot in Tatárszentgyörgy after their house on the edge of the settlement had been set on fire. The five - year - old Robika and her father had to die because they were Gypsies. On 22 April 2009, a 54-year-old man was killed in the courtyard of his house in Tiszalök, when he left for work at the drug factory in Tisavasvár, because of Jenő Kóka's Roma origin. On the night from 2 August to 3 August 2009, a 45-year-old sleeping mother was killed with brutal cruelty on the Memorial Day of the Roma Holocaust, whose daughter also carries lifelong bodily wounds by the shots she received. But much more serious is the never-healing psychological wound caused to him by the loss of his mother. Mary Balogh had to die because of her Roma origin. The Hungarian Roma nationality has been remembering all the victims of the most serious series of crimes in Hungarian forensics every year for ten years, on 3 November. So, in the life of the Hungarian Gypsy, November 3rd is a day of mourning. All murders are the common grief of all of us, not just the Roma. It cannot be forgotten that in 2008-2009, during socialist governance, nine different attacks took place in 14 months, six of our fellow citizens, including a five-year-old child, were killed and many were severely injured. This is unforgivable, all Roma people had to fear death in these years. [[14.40]] The weight of crime obliges us, obliges us to commemorate. Let us remember and remind that such a tragedy will never happen again. After the 2010 elections, thanks to the current government, nationalities in Hungary no longer have to fear such or similar serious tragedies, as Hungary protects its nationalities, including ourselves, the Hungarian Roma, is committed to racism, anti-Roma and hatred. It is not only formulated in the Fundamental Law, but people belonging to nationalities also feel that they are important to Hungary, they are indeed state-making factors. Now I'm closing my thoughts with a sad heart. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-38	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I'll ask if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'm speaking to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-12-39	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Speaker, Dear Parliament, Indeed, today, besides a 100 - year anniversary, the country must remember a ten - year - old mourning anniversary. We must not forget that ten years ago Hungary was in a position to defend its own citizens. This meant that, in fact, with regard to origin, many had to suffer acts, crimes that were as serious as possible, and which have since been judged by the court. For this reason, he sentenced the perpetrators to permanent imprisonment without limitation, i.e. life imprisonment in 2016. We believe that this is in itself an argument for a permanent life sentence, but what is more important is that the state will never again be in a position to guarantee the protection of its own citizens. We know what, at least, the shortcomings of the operation of the secret services at that time led to the fact that this series of assassinations could have happened. We know that the Hungarian state, which was capable of attacking their peaceful citizens exercising their constitutional fundamental rights two years earlier, in 2006, was not able to prevent months of racially based murders. This should be a warning example for all of us. There is a political, social and moral crisis that I believe the current government and the majority of governments have done a great deal to prevent after 2010. In this situation, it had to be made clear that maintaining the monopoly of violence is necessary and inevitable for the Hungarian State, and therefore all paramilitary movements and free teams that wanted to carry out police duties instead of the State, but were already on behalf of the State, had to be banned, while the state's own law enforcement bodies and secret services had to be strengthened and reorganized in order to prevent such acts from happening again. We hope that it is indeed right to say that such a situation will never occur again. We hope that, while there are, of course, social problems in Hungary, the problems of living together with Gypsy-Hungarians are also with us, but we have made a very big step forward with many of the members of the Gypsy community taking up work today, there are a lot of people who could escape from the threat of unemployment after 2010. We believe that public security can always be better than it is, but today it is significantly better than it was before 2010, as it would be unimaginable to carry out a similar series of crimes, which have been terrorizing a community for months, in the current operation of the secret services. That is why we must remember what happened at the time and together, the political community as a whole should be glad that the Hungarian state is in such a state that similar acts cannot be repeated today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-40	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we will decide on the amendments to the agenda. The Group of the Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday's Day of the Parliament, the second meeting of the year 2019. H/3355 on the declaration of Ferenc Rákóczi as a commemorative year. T/3296 on the amendment of certain laws relating to R &amp; D and vocational training for the general debate on the proposal for a decision. The agenda should be followed by a general debate on the legislative proposal No 1. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the meeting be held on Thursday at 8 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda, together with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, It is now coming to a decision on the personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/3451 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2018-11-12-41	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows. The Parliament elects Zsolt V. Németh, Fidesz, instead of the member of the committee, István Happy as vice-president of the committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2018-11-12-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/3451. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 164 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Now it's 2:48 p.m., we're moving on to interpellation and immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. If migration is such a big problem for Hungary, why do we not hear about a large number of criminal proceedings against smugglers in Hungary or in the Western Balkan countries? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, the Secretary of State will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On the Western Balkans route in 2015, between June and September 2015, 159 968 illegal border crossings crossed Hungary with the touch of Macedonia and Serbia. Since the beginning of 2015, national security services have repeatedly warned the government that on the Western Balkans route large numbers of migrants can be expected from Balkan refugee camps and the Middle East war countries at the borders of Hungary. [[14.50]] International smuggling networks have been prepared to try to bring hundreds of thousands of people to the centre of Europe, and this large number of people smuggling networks, both internal and external networks, could have helped from their starting point to their destination. Secret services are responsible for the detection of such networks, their integration into them, and, finally, the activation of personal responsibility for the executioners of those crimes. Since August 2015, the Hungarian government has been building a fence, initiating fundamental law amendments, constantly suing against the European quota, fighting with half of Europe, weakening Hungarian citizens with three years of fear, but one of the most important legal consequences, mass criminal proceedings against smugglers, has not been actively promoted. In 2015, a couple of people were brought against a window trial, but since then we have not been able to determine whether there has been a substantial search for criminals, whether criminal proceedings against smugglers have started in the countries concerned, whether domestic or foreign, which suggests that the personnel of these networks have been disrupted. In Hungarian criminal law, the Btk. 353 and 354. § 2 of the Act deals with the offences which have been committed in the present case. I have no experience in such activities, but I believe that hundreds of thousands of people can move a minimum of 2 to 3,000 people to make the thousands of kilometres a success. There is no doubt about effectiveness, given that more than 160,000 people have crossed Hungary's borders illegally, and since then there are between 10 and 50 people who wish to cross Hungary illegally every day. I ask the representative of the government to answer questions about how many people have been prosecuted in Hungary for the crime of smuggling and illegal residence, whether legal aid has been initiated by the Attorney General or by the Minister of Justice with foreign states, whether they have filed a complaint with foreign states, or whether the Hungarian residents can see the procedures that you have initiated after the seeds of fear. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-12-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, our country was faced with a problem which was not adequately dealt with by the legislation in force at that time. There was a drastic increase in the number of illegal border crossings, by the way, of almost 400 thousand; the congresswoman spoke of only a few months, but it was almost 400 thousand a year, and the smuggling of people to facilitate illegal border crossings has increased to an unprecedented extent. Illegal migration and related criminal acts have put public order and public security at increased risk, which has justified action against the perpetrators of these acts by even the strictest means of public authority. To this end, the Btk. was added to the circle of so-called border-locked crimes. These facts have ensured that newly built facilities for the protection of the state's borders can achieve their purpose and that their construction, maintenance and protection from possible violent attacks are not hindered. This tightening was, on the one hand, a substantial increase in the penalty line and, on the other hand, an increase in the number of qualified cases. These crimes are strictly sanctioned by the Btk with imprisonment from 5 to 15 years. Effective detection of prohibited acts requires comprehensive tracking of the network, detailed witness hearings, close cooperation with other bodies, data exchange at EU and international level, and, if necessary, confidential information collection. As a result, full detection of the facts and final criminal liability may be delayed, which should also be taken into account when analysing statistical data. The promotion of smuggling and illegal residence in respect of criminal offences is of a follow-up nature, i.e. the relevance of the data to a given year is adapted to the date of the decision and not to the time of the offence. The data of judicial and prosecutorial decisions are related to the decisions of the designated bodies, so it is not the same as the number of registered offences. In view of this, the following information may be provided for the period 2015-2017. In 2015, 393 people were convicted of the crime of smuggling, 2 indictments were postponed; in 2016 512 were convicted and 2 indictments were postponed, while in 2017 393 were convicted and 1 indictment was postponed. In 2015, 14 people were convicted of the offence and 1 indictment was postponed. In 2016, 80 people were convicted, while 88 people were convicted in 2017. For all data, emphasis should be placed on the high level of indictment of 97,6 per cent and above. Overall, it can be concluded that the complex set of measures taken in the area of criminal and border police action and the tightening of legislation have brought about the expected results, narrowing down the opportunities for smugglers and perpetrators of migration-related crimes. Hungary's main purpose was to ensure the safety of the Member States of the European Union, and it can be said that there is currently no active smuggling and criminal organisation in Hungary. However, the activities of smugglers-criminal organisations operating outside the borders of our country affect our country, and Hungary continues to place particular emphasis on international criminal cooperation. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-47	Thank you for asking, Mr President. I do not accept the answer, and I would briefly explain that. This means, Mr Secretary of State, that in our international relations, the government has not done the tasks that could prevent the Hungarian population from informing the walls of this House each week, and in the last few months there have been different figures, 70 thousand, 700 thousand, 200 thousand, 250 thousand, 2.5 million migrations of people fleeing Hungary and Europe, to facilitate migration. It seems that the Hungarian government is doing nothing to prevent such a crisis from happening again at our southern borders, because the fence alone is not enough. At the natural borders, like our southern rivers, the fence alone is not enough to prevent migrants from entering Hungary. In this way, I cannot accept your answer because in the international context, the task that the government would have had was not carried out. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 38 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. State Privatization in Higher Education? on Corvinus and Higher Education. Mr Vice-President, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister has entrusted László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is responsible for the subject by answering the interpellation. At the request of Minister Péter Cseresnyés, the Secretary of State will respond to your interpellation. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-49	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Over the last 25 years, Hungary has paid off many decades of debt to society in higher education. Access to higher education has widened, and groups excluded from training in previous decades have gained the desired degree, and the freedom to teach has been achieved. [[15.00]] After a quarter of a century, we came to the point that Hungarian higher education is one of the most successful and competitive sectors of our national economy, and every opportunity was given to establish the best higher education system in Central Europe. This quote could have originated earlier from an opposition politician dealing with education, but it is not. I quote this opinion adopted by the Government from 2014. This is how the strategic programme "Training in Higher Education" begins, which the government has approved and declared as its own. This document commends the past and sets out ambitious plans on a professional basis for the future in 2014 and then nothing. The quality of higher education would not have increased, but rather decreased. In international university rankings, we didn't just get ahead of ourselves, we slipped back. The freedom of research, the autonomy of the university, we can watch it from here to there, you can explain it one way or another, but the truth is, it's damaged. The concept of autonomy and quality of higher education is doomed to failure. Corvinus is one of the most prestigious institutions of Hungarian higher education. You're about to beat him up right now. The defining citadel of economics education is not only at home, but throughout Central Europe. Some of its disciplines occupy one of the first 50 sites in the European rankings. Instead of centralising previously announced by you, the new wind of the new times is that we need greater autonomy, even full autonomy, and even the complete abolition of state reservations. So what is the situation now, Mr Secretary of State, in 2018? I'm asking you, if everything was so good until 2014, how could everything be so bad in 2018. What is expected of Corvinus, and when can it be estimated that the government will reserve one of the most prestigious universities in the country? If the future institution becomes smaller, what will be the fate of the Corvinus University buildings, especially the fate of the former Customs House? Finally, although I welcome your response, please tell me why you answer when higher education belongs to the EMMI. Up until now, we didn't know that if there's any change, you'd be happy to tell us in your response. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am afraid that in Mr. Congressman's interpellation, he has a tangible generous view of the history of the events that have been mentioned. In 2010, we took over a system of higher education from Balliberal governments, which was completely bled out first because of the privatisation intentions, and then because of the mismanagement of the economic crisis and the servitude of following the instructions of the IMF. Universities have been forced into long-term PPP schemes that are unmanageable, and institutions have become heavily indebted. In addition, they wanted to add a tuition fee, which we could only prevent in 2008 through a referendum. After 2010, therefore, serious consolidation work had to follow. We have replaced the PPP projects of universities and restored the balance of their management by introducing the Chancellor system. A series of research facilities, campuses, colleges have been renewed and renewed throughout the country. At the same time, we have raised the percentage of the population with a degree to 20.5 percent. The change of career in higher education, which sets the course for further development, was already the result of the strategy of consolidation, that one of the possible outbursts of the future could be the introduction of different forms of operation than before. The transformation of the operational structure of Corvinus University is therefore nothing more than a pilot project for the implementation of a policy programme previously adopted. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Corvinus University, chosen as its subject, is already able to deliver significant results, but it has far from exploited its potential for regional leadership. However, thanks to its financial stability, its special role in economic and social affairs and its international embeddedness, it has a good ability to cope successfully with the challenges of such a transformation. It has been said several times between the walls of this House that the aim of the renewal of Corvinus is to strengthen the international competitiveness of the institution and, through it, of Hungarian higher education. In the context of the transformation, Corvinus' maintenance rights will be transferred by the State to a new foundation established by the State for this purpose, after which Corvinus will act as a public benefit higher education institution maintained by the State Foundation from the date of 1 July 2019. Of course, state-owned property and property belonging to the current asset management of Corvinus University is also owned by Corvinus University, as part of a material condition granting public benefit in the form of free asset relief. Our goal remains that the renewable Corvinus University will be among the world's 200 best 100 universities in the field of economic and social sciences by 2030 as the leading institution of Central Europe. There is every hope for this, knowing the team of researchers and teachers there and seeing the conditions for funding provided. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman István Hiller, Mr Vice-President, if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-53	Mr President, No. Dear Secretary of State, What you've been described and what you've read is professionally so rude [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Be careful!]] Eötvös turned his head on the fresco behind your back. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] You know, like in the Harry Potter movies, when the portraits can't stand the circumstances and turn around. But to discuss education as a whole, Mr. Secretary, listen to me. The fact is that Hungarian public education was more effective and free until 2010 than it is now. The thing is, there were more students in higher education than there are now. The thing is, there were more graduating students because we wanted you to be more college students, and you don't want that. The fact is that higher education has been successful, more Hungarian young people have graduated and served this country better than they are now. That's why I don't accept it.
u2018-11-12-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 43 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The requirement for language examination is yet another tool for the exclusion of disadvantaged students from higher education? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2018-11-12-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to pick up where Minister Hiller ended. [[György Balla: We know that. You'd be happy to continue.]] ; the shameful policy that aims to drive Hungarian students out of Hungarian higher education. In the European Union, nearly 40 percent of the 30-34-year-olds have a degree, and our country has previously undertaken to reach 34 percent by 2020. So it would still be a disadvantage, but at least it would be a catch-up. On the other hand, the education policy of recent years has not led to an increase, but a decrease in the proportion of graduates among young people, now only 32 percent. In 2010, there were 65,000 out of 101,000 applicants, but last year there were only 75,000 applicants, of whom 51,000 students were admitted to higher education. What is the consequence of this? The fact that young people are less and less able to get into higher education is less and less likely to go to college and college at home. What are you guys doing now? Do they make it easier to get into higher education? They're cutting tuition fees? Are they increasing the number of state-funded places? Are they giving students a better opportunity to prepare for higher education in public education? No! They're doing the opposite. [[15.10]] From 2020, it is planned to make language examination in higher education an entry requirement. According to last year's European Commission data, the lowest proportion of foreign speakers in the EU is the lowest. And what's even worse: your survey in public education shows that today a minority of students in public education will only get their language exams by the end of public education. You would therefore exclude most students from higher education, even making it impossible for them to apply. I don't want to take students to higher education, I want to squeeze them out. It's unacceptable, it's a policy that ruins the country's future. Public education should prepare you for higher education. This should also be prepared in the field of language learning, but all the conditions for effective language learning are missing according to your assessment: there are few language teachers, few language lessons, too large study groups, insufficient technical equipment, few language labs. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State whether they are willing to abolish the provision that makes the language exam a requirement for admission, thus pushing the majority of Hungarian students out of higher education. Why do they consider it important that children of disadvantaged, less wealthy families who cannot afford to get their own language exams are forced out of higher education? And how do you intend to meet the commitment to a minimum 34 percent of graduates to the competitiveness of the economy? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-12-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If there was a blood-creeping sentence that could have been said on this subject, it would be that you would pick up where you left off. [[Moray from the opposition benches. A statement from the opposition: Are you completely frozen from him?]] You, too, would continue the activities and speeches of your former minister there. After all, the Hungarian people have a very profound memory of your politics from exactly ten years ago. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] And from exactly 20 years ago, he has a very profound memory of your higher education policy. It was the first Orbán government 20 years ago that abolished the tuition fee that you introduced for all students in Hungary in 1998. Then, ten years later, it was precisely Fidesz-KDNP that called people alliances in a referendum to cancel that tuition fee for the second time. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: So you can re-introduce it at three times the price!]] which would have been a huge burden for all Hungarian disadvantaged students to get into higher education. You yourself have said very veritable sentences about how much the tuition encourages or keeps students away from higher education when you are a secretary of state. I'm sure all reasonable people know. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Talk about the language exam.]] That a family in a difficult situation will consider three times whether or not to encourage their child to admit to university if there is a tuition fee. On the other hand, let's hear what you said in 2006 to protect the tuition fee:. The training contribution remains an important element of higher education reform. In Hungarian, the tuition is a fundamental requirement for you. Without the encouragement of students, the transformation cannot be successful. So you don't consider the tuition to be a smear, but an incentive to encourage students to apply as many as possible and as many underprivileged young people as possible, because if they have to pay, there will obviously be more disadvantaged young people encouraged to get into higher education. He also spoke about the opposition, the current governing parties, the Fidesz-KDNP: the opposition's aim is to prevent the country's calm governance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right!]] So it's not standing on the side of people that he's trying to stop you from taking anti-young people's measures. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And can this speech go in English? That's the main question. Can you go in English?]] And on top of that, Fidesz may be able to force the country to make a referendum that it had the legal opportunity to do, and the overwhelming majority of people have swept away your proposal. Two years later, you said here in Parliament, on 25 February 2008, in answer to an immediate question, as Secretary of State for Education, that you called the tuition fee a part contribution, and that we support its current system, which is what we consider to be a fair and quality incentive. The referendum will reject the initiatives of Fidesz and KDNP, and you will continue to support the system of tuition. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] So you're here in Parliament, perhaps in the same chair, believing that you'll always be pro-teaching. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Can this thing go in English? Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Trying to make the situation of Hungarian families more difficult for their children to learn. As far as the language exam requirement is concerned, after a six-year preparation period, it requires young people not to face the fact that they need a language examination, but to try to help them before. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: How much?]] The portal in your former headquarters has already stated the iron logic that since it is required to have language skills when entering the university, young people will leave Hungary and will learn abroad for this reason. That's the iron logic you're saying. We help those who need language skills, free language exams from 26,000 applications have already been approved in 23,000 cases. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not about the language exam, it's about the way there!]] We spent 683 million forints on this. By learning the language, we help students learn languages outside of school with an additional billion in the programme for prosperity. For students, the price of those with language skills increased from 65 to 70 percent over two years. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Price?]] That's the ratio. The proportion of graduates, honourable Member, reached 34 percent already in 2015, which we had undertaken by 2020 and even exceeded, to 34.3 percent. And the knowledge of Hungarian people has also increased noticeably in recent years [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Do you speak English?]] Young people today can speak much more in foreign languages, 5-6 percent higher than before. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Yes!]]
u2018-11-12-59	Dear Secretary of State, I'm always impressed when you're doing my job, but that's not what taxpayers pay you for. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone can have a hobby!]] but to deal with the issues of education. [[The president's ringing the bell. Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right!]] Your words do not comfort anyone, because the facts show that, during the Gyurcsány government, 4.2 percent of the entire population was a higher education student and 2.9 percent today. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right!]] This means that every third student has disappeared from Hungarian higher education, 100,000 students. Dear Secretary of State, Moreover, most of these parts are still missing from the poorest parts. What you're saying next is, I'm sorry, a grave mistake, to put it mildly, because it wasn't the six thousand forints a month that would have kept the students away, which they would have received back in scholarship, but your hundreds of thousands of dollars and even millions of dollars in tuition. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] However, this is not an answer to why they want it by administrative means. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Also, with a new numerus clausus to eliminate poor students...
u2018-11-12-60	Congressman!
u2018-11-12-61	That's why I don't accept your answer. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! A statement from the opposition: Whoa! Applause from the opposition benches. Interrogation from the ranks of pro-government representatives.]]
u2018-11-12-62	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why should a city of people die prematurely in Hungary due to air pollution every year? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The European Environment Agency has recently re-published its latest report on air quality in Europe. What is good news is that, thanks to consistent Community policies and developments, the number of early deaths due to fine particulate matter has decreased significantly since 1990. However, the overall picture is dramatic: air pollution was well beyond the EU and World Health Organisation's limit values, and in 2015 nearly half a million people died prematurely in Europe. The dust, nitrogen dioxide and ozone near the soil cause the greatest harm to human health. Road transport is one of the main sources of air pollution, but also contributes to emissions from agriculture, energy production, industry and households, and in addition to human health, it damages soil, forests, water and reduces agricultural yields. Hungarian data is even more dramatic. In 2015, air pollution caused 14,630 premature deaths. In the case of particulate matter, the situation is worse within the EU only in Bulgaria, otherwise the situation of Macedonia, Kosovo and Serbia is worse. Air pollution is an invisible killer, but the invisible killer is backed up by inadequate and bad policies. As early as 2008, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary for non-compliance with the air-cleaning requirements and sued us in 2018 for insufficient measures. [[15.20]] Mr. Secretary. Instead of paying the expected high fine, it would be reasonable to allocate public funds to immediate, real measures. But what happens instead? The government is re-launching the mining of lignite, a serious air pollutant, leaving EU funds wasted and unaided in building energy modernisations to prevent a great deal of emissions. It is unable to tackle the energy poverty affecting millions and consistently leave the environmentally friendly development of transport without resources, and even to vote against it in Brussels. It is not even a heating season, but already on dozens of our settlements air pollution has exceeded the health limit. So the problem is only growing. I am asking, Mr Secretary of State, what measures the government intends to take to prevent the premature death of a city of Hungarians. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-11-12-64	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2018-11-12-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I have already said to the Member in response to her question to us earlier, we certainly do not dispute the negative effects of air pollution. Therefore, in recent years, significant steps have been taken to improve the situation. At the same time, air quality development involves a number of independent factors in addition to local emissions of air pollutants. Hungary receives 30 percent more air pollutants from beyond the border than it does. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Moreover, due to the country's pelvic character, air pollutants are more easily enriched, settled and settled during the winter period. Nevertheless, we will take all possible measures to improve air quality. We have already launched a sectoral programme for the reduction of particulate matter years ago. Since the launch of the programme in 2011, a number of measures have been implemented in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors, worth some HUF 160 billion. With regard to the transport sector, we would highlight the bus exchange programme, the designation of areas protected from freight traffic, the introduction of a new toll system, the green transformation of the car tax system. In our country, air dust comes to the greatest extent from residential heating, burning of avar and garden waste and illegal incineration of other waste. One of the best tools to reduce retail emissions is to improve energy efficiency and thermal insulation in buildings. With the replacement and modernisation of heating systems, therefore, our ongoing support system has resulted in more than 412 thousand household projects since 2010. In addition to regulation and support programmes, we consider it very important for the public to know the risk of air pollution and what they can do to reduce this risk. That is why we place great emphasis on information and awareness-raising. This is the purpose of the heating smartly! In addition to demonstrating the environmental and health impact of air pollution, a campaign aimed at raising public awareness of the importance of responsibility. It takes longer to shape the approach, but we believe that our support programmes and information events will bring us closer to the solutions we set out. A new national air load reduction programme is currently being developed, which includes limiting emissions of all relevant air pollutants, reducing environmental and health risks by more than 50 percent if the measures are implemented. I hope that you have been convinced that, as far as possible, the current government has done a lot to improve air quality, and that the current government is continuing to take further steps and take further measures, so it is committed to improving the situation. Please accept my reply, Madam honourable Member, and thank you for your kind attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[István Szilárd Németh: Yes!]]
u2018-11-12-67	I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary. We would like to believe that, as a result of your actions, there will be a breakthrough in reducing air pollution that endangers the health of the entire population of this country, but unfortunately, the facts deny that. We know that in larger cities, heating and transport are the main causes of this very bad, close-to-limit condition in small settlements. I have to say, it's not enough campaigning to be smart when a large number of people live in energy poverty, in bad conditions, and have no choice. You just have to go to different parts of the country, small settlements. I can recommend you come to Borsod County, there's Miskolc, Sajószentpéter, Kazincbarcika. People are forced to heat with poor quality wood, waste, and coal, lignite. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As long as there is no change in these areas, we will not achieve results.
u2018-11-12-68	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. What about MTA's research institutes? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor.
u2018-11-12-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At its meeting on 30 October, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences adopted a resolution stressing that the major transformation of the institution is unnecessary and that the research network does not need excessive centralization. The main point of the decision is that this research network, which is at the forefront of Europe, must not be compromised but rather developed more direct and effective channels to ensure that research results of policy importance are made available to decision-makers as fully and undistorted as possible between social science research and policy-makers. According to the Presidency, basic research, applied research and social services should be summarised in a joint workshop, including, if necessary, in a different funding system. This summer, during the budgetary debate, we all found out that the government's goal was to crush the academic research network, as it transferred 20 billion forints of the academic research network to the Ministry led by László Palkovics and entrusted it with its distribution. According to both the members of the Academy and the professionals working in higher education, this would mean the literal execution of world-class basic research in Hungary. Freedom of teaching and learning and freedom of science should not be the subject of ideological and political debates. The key to a country's rise is to ensure a scientific life on the broadest possible basis, innovation. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State three questions. Is the Ministry willing to accept the MTA's proposal that the funds for the basic institutional funding should be returned to the budget chapter of the MTA? Second, on the basis of what technical tests did the ITM decide that a major transformation of the research network was needed? Finally, thirdly: does the Ministry accept the MTA's proposal to extend the planned screenings beyond academic research institutes to public research institutes and the business undertaking involved in innovation? Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[15.30]]
u2018-11-12-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I find it extremely regrettable that a fellow Member who has had a scientific career should be reminded that the proper application of the terms relating to the subject of any debate is a prerequisite for effective conduct, since you were far from reality even at the level of the concepts in your speech. The Member speaks of it as if controlability, freedom and efficiency are mutually exclusive values and argues that effectiveness and autonomy are not entirely compatible with each other. If you really believe that the combined existence of these values, for example, is not possible in the scientific institutional system, I suggest that you study the Western European models, best practices, which we ourselves have used and continuously take into account in the preparation of our proposals on research and development. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Honourable Congressman, The government is accountable not only for the administrative, health and educational institutions of the public sector, but also responsible for ensuring the efficient and effective functioning of certain actors in the scientific institution system, and is equally responsible for creating the conditions for Hungary's current and long-term competitiveness, one of the most important areas of which is the improvement of scientific and innovation performance. That is why a screening of the operation of public research institutions has taken place or is taking place, seeking to answer the question of how effective these institutions are. This is also what society expects from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which is also financed from budgetary resources, because, unlike economic organizations, public institutions also have a government responsibility towards people. It should be noted that similar self-examination was also considered necessary by the Academy itself in 2012. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, At this point, the question should be asked: if it is true for the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that they are doing extremely well, they are putting outstanding research results on the table at international level, then why are you or you afraid of the results of such a screening? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And another question needs to be asked: if you believe that the current structure of research and development and innovation ensures efficient, resource-free operation in the sector as a whole, free of waste, duplication and excessive fragmentation, then why are you afraid of a government resource coordination whose sole purpose is to manage the possible anomalies listed above in order to improve effectiveness? Honourable Congressman, Your views and expectations may differ, I hope not, but the state, the government, is working today to represent people and improve their quality of life. This is also the case in science, where for the sake of a competitive, developing, growing Hungary, our only goal is to create an internationally competitive framework that helps efficiency and effectiveness. That is why, because that is our goal, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that you accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Tamás Mellár if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the answer, and the reason I cannot accept the answer is because the Secretary of State has not answered the question on the basis of the technical examinations that he has taken this decision. So, right, the withdrawal of the funds was already done in the Finance Act, so perhaps the due diligence should have been carried out first, and then, when that was done, a decision on the basis of this is made on how the whole thing would be restructured then. So we got on the horse the other way. By the way, my third question was also not answered by the Secretary of State, although it is clear that the MTA does not say that it is against any due diligence; there should be further due diligence, but it also refers to the fact that this screening should not only concern academic research institutes, but also to public research institutions and businesses involved in innovation, because I think it is all part of competitive innovation. And one more sentence: scientific freedom is the strongest in the most competitive countries, so I think that if we want to go forward [[The president's ringing the bell.]] then we should grant scientific freedom. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Property Management without a wallet. It's an address. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving. Noise.]] Before I give the floor to Congressman Robert Simon, I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber who is leaving quietly. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall the times when a multitude of gambling addicts took away their families' livelihoods and spent all their money on money-winning vending machines. It was not enough that the operators of these devices crippled the lives of thousands of families, but to gain undue advantage, criminal circles did not hold this business in their hands with the use of violence. Thanks to the government's proposal, this situation has been lifted, which has crippled families and fattened criminal circles, as Parliament has adopted the relevant legislation by 238 votes in favour, with 1 sex and 8 abstentions. György Szilágyi's name appeared among the names of the representatives who did not support the proposal for family interests and the whitening of the economy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What a surprise!]] Then no one could understand why Jobbik's representative did not vote with his fellow factions to support such a good cause together. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Getting to know the press reports, we're less surprised at your decision. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Hungarian Time is not a press conference!]] His brother-in-law was the manager and owner of several gambling companies and gaming machines before the legislation came into force. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Who wrote that it should be read?!]] According to press information, until 2012, more than HUF 100 million was sold annually on the gambling market. The Member's kinship was therefore sensitive to the ban on money-winning vending machines. The betterman then launched a vehement attack on the government, and, as we have seen, his anger has not calmed down to this day. In order to discredit the government, he can come up with any false and offensive claims to satisfy him. A week ago here in this Chamber, without any reality, he was spreading slanders about public procurement and non-transfer fees to the government. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how much interest I am in the anger that the betterman Member is claiming to be untrue to the government. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-11-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Oh, dear! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-11-12-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, By amending the law on the organisation of gambling in 2012, the legislator was determined to reduce the possibility of access to gambling, thereby limiting the adverse side effects of gambling on society and individuals. I think we can all agree that, given people's mental health and public policy interests, tightening up was the right move, taking into account the fact that access to games that can be played on money-winning machines is the most dangerous type of gambling in terms of the development of gambling addiction. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Since the amendment of the law, a cash machine can only be operated by the company established for this purpose in a toy casino. By virtue of the law, the cash machine licences operated in the arcade and the gaming room licences expired on 11 October 2012. [[15.40]] As a result of the amendment, the cash-winning machine operation has been repressed to ten casino games in the country, currently operating around 1500 cash-winning machines. Honourable Congressman, I agree that it is truly incomprehensible to our fellow Member Szilágyi that the 2013 CCXV. protest against the amendment contained in the Act and its absence from the final vote. It is also incomprehensible why Mr President did not vote in favour of the 2016 XCVII amendment, which was aimed at strict action against the illegal online gambling organisation. Mr Szilágyi is a member of a party that started its activities as a national radical, otherwise extreme right-wing group, and now tries to grab hold of the political sphere, flirting with the left. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] Remember, Jobbik took hundreds of millions from an oligarch. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] He sold his soul, he bears all the consequences of it, the identity crisis, the break-up of the party, and the expected fall. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Nor is it negligible, as you mentioned, that Congressman Szilágyi is related to Royal Star Kft. As a member of the Committee, he was interested in gaming activities and in numerous gaming and money-winning machines when adopting the above-mentioned amendments and when rejecting them by Mr Szilágyi. The company was sanctioned several times during its activities by the Gambling Authority. By the way, the company is likely to cease active activity due to the ban on arcades in October 2012. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-78	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I will ask Congressman Robert Simon if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Shame! My eyes are going out!]]
u2018-11-12-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Family is the basis for the survival of the nation. This has rightly been recognised by civil governance and pays particular attention to the support of families in each cycle. Think of home creation, a family tax relief system [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party! Long live the party!]] In addition, by all means, the government will act against activities that will destroy the unity of the family. I am very sorry that we have a Member who voted no in this regard. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. [[László Varju: Why?]] Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman and Zoltán Magyar, representatives of Jobbik, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, Is the Lake Fertő also in the hands of the Oligarchs of Balaton? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2018-11-12-81	Thank you so much for the floor. Mr President, The Fertő Beach will be of such quality that it fully repositions the tourist map of the region. The Hungarian side of the lake will know more than the Austrian side. Tibor Gajda, Deputy General Manager of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, argued earlier. What nice words, what eligible goals! But as always, where there is a NER in the background with a very unbridled desire for acquisition, it is worth looking behind the nice sets. From this source, there is also about HUF 30 billion on Lake Fertő. I am glad that it is already clear that investments are again, as usual, fattening the oligarchs attached to the government. In 2017, the General Assembly of Sopron adopted the regulatory plan and the local construction regulations to enable the development of the infecting water plant. A new beach, recreation park, hotel, water playground, restaurant, camping, port will be established on the shore of Lake Fertő; all this looks very good, and the need for the planned development is not disputed, although I would suggest that the monumentality of the development may not fit into that area. However, the example of the fever in Balaton shows very well - and the time frame in an interpellation is not enough to list how the Hungarian sea came into the hands of fidesz oligarchs, and to prevent this from happening with the Lake Fertő. It does not increase the confidence in the project to be supervised by reliable fidesz cadres for the supervision of funds received in the framework of the "Modern Cities" programme and the municipal operational programmes. So not only the program, but also the supervision of the money is under Fidesz supervision, not to mention the Sopron-Fertő Tourism Nonprofit Zrt. Its legal representation is also carried out by the Sarhegy and Associates Law Office, who also has a lot of ties to government circles, and the general assemblies, which are the subject of this investment, do not really inform concerned and decent citizens living in the region. I would like to quote the concerns of the county engineering chamber: the design and professional level of sewage treatment is highly questionable, but there may be problems with water depth and sludge, so it is very important here to adapt this investment to the real environment. For example, catering units who have been working on this site for 25 years, paying taxes to the local government and renting hundreds of thousands of HUF to the waterworks in Sopron are a very serious problem. What about them? You're just gonna take their livelihoods away from them? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What about the boats that are standing there? So I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what guarantees can you give us that we are not walking in the same way as during the Balaton fever in the area of Lake Fertő. Thank you for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Tuzson is responding to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-12-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You know, fellow Members, I understand that if a party has a frustration, and because of its own low-flying, it constantly thinks that it is a pity that they cannot participate in these developments, and that the country is developing, tourism developments are beginning, but they cannot be a part of this thanks to the voters. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is not the public procurement of Bence Tuzson Law Office.]] My fellow Member, you know, I am shocked, and this does not relieve you of the fact that at least you will be informed when you ask such a question. You're a Member of Parliament, and even though you live in Érden, you're from Sopron. You could go to this area and see what development needs are [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Little Sherlock Holmes!]] and how much this development is needed there. By the way, there are major developments in that area, with an agreement of HUF 360 billion that the government has concluded with Sopron in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. There are important investments in this, such as the M85 road, this is a major investment, of great importance for the region and even for the country; but also the rehabilitation of downtown Sopron. The real Sopronians know exactly how important these things are and how important and how important the Lake Fertő investment is from a tourist point of view, what changes this will start there. Anyone who goes in there and sees it on the spot knows exactly that nothing happened there since the '70s. The Austrian side has evolved, the Hungarian side has not evolved, it is an unsustainable state, and these developments need to be launched. These developments have started, and have started on the basis of large and good plans. It also does not correspond to the fact that the municipality did not make a public decision on matters which concern it, that all its meetings were public, that it could go away and that it could be made aware of its decisions. You just have to go on the Internet, if you hit Google's search engine, if you don't even look at the logs and look for them better, you can still see exactly what decisions have been made, and how transparent this program is, and the appropriate element of this program. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Don't ever say that word again.]] Remember that we are talking about state-owned real estate, because the water surface, that 60-acre water surface, is state-owned. The national park is also a state institution, and even the project company is state-owned, which will do so, and the contractors will be selected in an open, transparent procedure in this case. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's what you do.]] So the title of his interpellation is also lies and misleading, and its content is even more so, because here we are talking about a transparent, good investment and, from the state's point of view, an investment that specifically represents the interests of the people there. [[15.50]] Let us not forget that tourism is developing in Hungary, and in addition to developing tourism, we need to keep thinking about the areas in which we further develop tourist attractions. It is no coincidence that the whole beach development will take place in this area, otherwise we are talking about a two-stroke development; the complete rehabilitation of the environment will take place, and in the end even the tourist-relevant hotel development will take place. This is expected by 2020, so the end of the programme is that there will be major, major improvements in that area. I would like to encourage the Member and ask you not to attack this type of development, because this is an attack on local people and the interests of local people. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition side.]] Help these developments, agree with us that the development of Hungarian tourism is in the interests of Hungary and all Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-84	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman... [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Zoltán Magyar responds. You have the floor, Congressman, in a minute.
u2018-11-12-85	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't understand the point, I don't know if it was intentional or accidental, and I don't know which version is worse. The problem is, they're starting out on their own again. He said it bothers us that we're not involved in these developments. It's not like that. It bothers you that the citizens of Sopron and the region want to participate in these developments. The problem we have from Lake Balaton and other similar projects is that the beginnings already predict that you are the only ones who want to get rich again on these projects, and it's not about the locals. We have never said that the region does not need this development, and for years we have even urged that the region, blessed with world heritage sites and blessed with hungaricum sites, can finally show itself to the country and the population of Europe as a whole. We miss the guarantees, we don't see them, and we're afraid that Lake Neusiedler will walk the same way as all the other fidesz playgrounds. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They steal billions, and the locals have nothing left to do with it. I can't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 38 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP [[Noise, interruptions, clearness in opposition benches. Márton Gyöngyösi: Everyone's on the run.]] has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the implementation of the vehicle investment in Zalaegerszeg? It's an address. My fellow Members, I would like to ask you to have a quieter conversation, because you cannot slowly hear each other's voices in this Chamber. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's okay.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As many of you know, last spring the construction of a test track in the automotive industry supporting the development of autonomous and electric vehicles began in Zalaegerszeg. With the investment we plan to maintain and improve Hungary's position in competition in the automotive market, and a major research, development and innovation business in Hungary can be realised. According to an analysis published by the European Commission in May, driverless cars change our daily lives to the same extent as steam locomotives and cars. In addition, new types of mobility can make the EU industry stronger and more competitive, create new jobs and generate significant revenue gains for the continent's vehicle production. The aim in Community transport is to make passengers comfortable and to ensure the accuracy of flights, and to increase the time and cost-effectiveness of freight transport, in which a new direction for the development of transport will be able to help. In the spirit of sustainable development, the latest directions for mobility are expected to make our transport significantly more efficient, safer and environmentally sound through lower emissions. Dear Secretary of State, The construction of the vehicle test track in Zalaegerszeg is expected to be the most modern facility in Central Europe in Hungary, making it possible to test under real road conditions. Our fellow Member, László Vigh, who has done excellent work in recent years, has been the ministerial commissioner of the project and has reported on the progress of the project from time to time in both the House and the press. I think we should thank him. In Hungary, more than 10,000 developers are currently engaged in the development of electronic, driverless vehicle systems, which is outstanding in Europe. In addition to realising concrete investment, our aim must be to play a leading role in the sector at European level and to promote autonomous transport. On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can say that we are very happy to welcome such and similar developments, which are moving forward for the decades to come. As regards the investment, I ask the Secretary of State: where is the implementation of the test track in Zalaegerszeg at present? How can investment in the automotive industry affect other developments, what related transport investments can be made? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-12-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The basestone of the test track in Zalaegerszeg was laid last May. Within a year and a half, the first phase will be completed, which we plan to deliver in the coming weeks. Testers and research institutes can use the vehicle dynamic interface at this rate, the first part of the smart city zone, which is capable of testing parking assistants simulating urban traffic situations, the two-kilometer fast lane of the handling track. The brake surface will also be fully complete with special braking sections and a one and a half kilometer road section for road testing. At the same time, the technical building receiving the vehicles of the testing companies has been completed with rental workshops, offices, as well as the reception building of the test track and its conference centre. Following the completion of the first phase, the second phase will be completed by the end of 2019 and early 2020. Honourable Congressman, The already completed and future development test track will be used to test vehicles and vehicle components, which are being developed for development purposes and will fit into the industry's product development and even research and development chain. Therefore, the test track will have a significant positive spill-over effect not only on its own direct geographical environment, but also on the economy as a whole. As a strategic, strategic R &amp; D infrastructure, the track can permanently attract its users and customers, thus increasing the range and capacity of foreign development firms operating in Hungary. It also offers a unique opportunity for the Hungarian R &amp; D sector, for which easily accessible testing infrastructure helps to increase their own product development potential and to conclude international R &amp; D cooperation. Several of these projects are currently under preparation. Of course, the test track attracts the development of the region not only in knowledge-based areas but also in infrastructure areas. The M76 road, which provides fast-track connections to Zalaegerszeg, is built as an intelligent test road, thus enabling the development of a roadway test environment that complements the test track. It is expected that high-level automated vehicles will appear on the highways as soon as possible. In many countries of the world, there are examples of testing stages, and there are also examples of trying to redesign test tracks for self-leading solutions, but the combined, integrated and coordinated implementation of the two will enable the development of an absolutely unique test environment, giving Hungary and South-West Transdanubia a significant advantage in the digital transformation of the economy. Thus, the test track can produce significant results both with the existence of the investment and with the opportunities offered there. So we are waiting for the first phase to be passed and the second phase to be implemented, thus ensuring the possibility of testing and testing automated driving in this area. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2018-11-12-90	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is good to hear that testers and research teams and research institutes will soon be able to take part of the test track and start their work there. We consider it very important to report on the scientific and innovation results that were born there, both on the ground and in other scientific institutes, at professional conferences, as this can contribute to the emergence of further research and development topics. I think that Minister Palkovics and MEP László Vigh will do everything in their power to ensure that this project does not only have a kind of pride for the people of Zalaegerszeg, but also for Hungary as a whole, not only for the people of Zalaegerszeg, but also for Hungary. Thank you very much, I accept the answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-12-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: å Will there be doctors and nurses in hospitals in Budapest? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the biggest projects of the government in Budapest is the construction of the Budapest Healthy Program and the Centre Hospitals. However, the project is currently in a state of difficulty due to various problems. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Absolutely not!]] Physical work is not currently taking place at any of the sites. This is due, inter alia, to discussions on the protection of monuments and the use of EU funds. Not to mention the fact that the Ministry of Human Resources pays the salary of the former Minister responsible for the programme through the State Health Supply Centre with the health care system. Instead of appointing ministerial commissioners since the elections, the EMMI prefers to use the same function as experts for the State Healthcare Services Centre. However, this is merely an administrative solution, and their duties are the same as they were as ministerial commissioners. It can therefore be seen that the program is facing a great deal of problems and is not being implemented. There is concern that the chaos resulting from the implementation will continue after the end of the program. This is due to the lack of doctors and nurses at national level. Péter Cserháti himself, former ministerial commissioner responsible for the Efficient Budapest programme, who is currently an expert at the State Healthcare Services Center, said that more highly qualified doctors, nurses and assistants will be needed, not to mention leading doctors, who are already very few of them. It can therefore be seen that after the completion of the new hospitals, the care of patients will not necessarily be provided, given that neither a doctor, nurse, or assistant will be sufficient. Peter Cserháti drew attention to another problem when he was asked about this situation. He expressed his fear that if superhospitals in Budapest started developing human resources, this development would take workers away from rural institutions. This means that the staff of hospitals in Budapest will be provided with the evacuation of rural hospitals. This will create tension between the countryside and the capital, a doctor and a doctor, a nurse and a nurse. In view of these, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how to ensure that people in Budapest have access to adequate health care and that there are enough nurses and doctors. How do you prevent doctors from fleeing from the countryside to the capital for better working conditions? When will there finally be a large wage increase for all healthcare workers so that doctors, nurses and health professionals do not go abroad? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-12-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Is the title of his interpellation: Will There Be Doctors and Nurses in Hospitals in Budapest? When you were on the government, you took a number of effective steps, not exactly in a positive direction on this issue. Let's see what you've done about the work of doctors and nurses. First they closed the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy in Budapest. Then the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute was closed in Budapest. Then the Szabolcs utca hospital was closed in Budapest. Then Schöpf-Merei Hospital was closed in Budapest. That's how you guys did it, putting a lock on the doors of hospitals one by one. But they didn't stop here, because they even fired 6,000 medical workers nationwide, who stayed there, took a month's wages, and, by the way, the patients were sabotaged with a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. This is how you agreed on the conditions for healing, whether there will be doctors and nurses in hospitals in Budapest. Well, you didn't want to leave hospitals behind, doctors or nurses in the state system. By privatization, the rich would have had a narrow share of health care, no one else. And the programme, honourable Member, is constantly moving forward. If you look at last year's, this year's and next year's budgets, you will find 30 and 40 billion HUF items, most of which have been used to purchase instruments and medical equipment, and the smaller part to design the four large center hospitals, co-hospitals and 32 clinics. If you look at what public procurements have been launched or are already in the last phase before the announcement, you can see that we are buying diagnostic equipment that will increase the diagnostic capacity of Budapest and Pest County by 10 percent this year. Patients can go to more than 10 percent capacity for testing, so obviously waiting lists can decrease even further in several cases. Péter Cserháti acts as Minister's Commissioner, which was also published in the Official Notice. As regards the work of doctors abroad, honourable Member, in the last year when you were in government, 845 doctors from Hungary went abroad to work, 334 last year. We reduced the number of doctors applying for a work permit abroad by 60 percent. Meanwhile, the number of medical students, medical students and medical students has risen from 1000 to 1400. Thus, the number of doctors going abroad has decreased to a noticeable extent, along with the supply of supplies, and the doctors who graduated have increased to a very large extent by 40%. In the case of nurses and professionals, the process started a little later, but here too, the number of people going abroad decreased by 28 percent. You said that a wage increase was necessary, honourable Member. I don't know what you've seen, what you haven't seen in recent years, but let's say that the pay of the workers increases by 65.5 percent between 2016 and 19 and if you look at it between 2012 and 2019, you'll see that it is rising by 100 percent. The doctor who made 338 thousand forints in 2010 makes 619 thousand forints this year. The nurse who made 170 thousand forints in 2010 is now earning 281 thousand forints, and this will rise even further next year. If we're talking about replacements, we've spent 7.5 billion forints on the residency program, residency scholarship. Young people can receive 150,000 forints a month on a short scholarship. We have transformed the vocational training system, and nurses seeking higher education can receive a grant of 320 or 640 thousand forints every six months through the Mihalicza scholarship. Nurses who want to acquire skills in the field can also earn a monthly scholarship of up to HUF 50,000. In the case of nurses, we also support career selection with a HUF 4.4 billion scholarship of HUF 40,000 per month. In this way, we are making sure that there are new doctors and new nurses for future years and for future generations. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-12-96	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, He talked more about the past than about the present and the future. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Absolutely not!]] Anyone who's listening to you right now might think everything's okay in the health department. On the other hand, people have a very different experience, because when they get close to a health institution, they are happy if they are not, they have to carry toilet paper, bandages, medicine, or even a battery into a device. Of course, who, as you, Secretary of State, can receive VIP care, he will not be confronted with this. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Oh, my God!]] And you don't know that. And with regard to the number of doctors and nurses, it is a tragic situation. Every day we hear about the closing of classes, mass terminations and not only in the countryside, but also in Budapest. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where? Your own fellow congressman is disproved!]] To give you an example, in my constituency, Zuglo, in the high-level Uzhok Hospital, there is currently more than 10 percent of nurses missing, 60-70 people. And whoever's here is forced to work in several places to make a living in some way. With regard to them, I cannot accept that answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 113 yes, 39 votes against and 1 abstention. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Why does the state leave 33,000 people with a pack of diapers on the side of the road? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Katalin Novák, State Secretary, she responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-99	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You have once again launched your scam called the national consultation. The goal remains the same: to seek citizens' opinions, to continue the current propaganda of Fidesz in public money, and to give some money as a bonus, to drag it into the pockets of friends. The result of all this, by the way, is nowhere to go, but at least it's expensive, and, you might say, nothing new came of it. This time, however, one more thing has been done, and it is particularly outrageous that a question, the seventh, has been smuggled into it with the lie that they want to appreciate those who care for their permanently ill children at home. As if it weren't the caretakers who have been fighting for themselves for the last five years to be recognized as a service, at least a minimum wage, to be recognised as an employment relationship. And they continue to resist: only children, and I would like to raise the cost of home care to 100 thousand forints, which would be worth the minimum wage long ago. By 2022, you promise the same thing, but you still don't talk about employment relations. For those who care for their sick child at home are not just family members, and they are not just children, but also adult people, and they are working on this 24 hours a day. You refuse to acknowledge those who care for their spouses, parents or other relatives in your household. The 33,000 people I'm talking about, they don't talk about and they don't care about them. They think with the 15 percent raise, which is not enough for a pack of diapers, they can poke their eyes out. So I ask the Secretary of State: why is the care of a parent, a brother, or a grandchild less appreciated than the care of a child? Families are different, but tragedy does not distinguish between them. What right do you have to make a difference in that? Moreover, the result of this discrimination was unforeseen, or it could be said that it was foreseeable that they had an argument, and that you had done so sinfully deliberately, and on this condition you would only increase it. Shame on you for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK and Dialogue benches.]]
u2018-11-12-100	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Novák is responding to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You asked me a question about why we'd jump anyone in front of each other. I would like to turn this question around: who is it who is today jumping Hungarian against Hungarians? [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties.]] Who is the one who has challenged Hungarians here today at today's meeting? You, honourable Member, should be ashamed of yourselves and your fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, who does not regard Hungarians from across the border as part of the Hungarians; who has said today that Hungarians from across the border are not really Hungarians, they do not deserve support [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Gergely Arató: Answer the Interpellation! You're lying! The president's ringing the bell.]] and turn them against Hungarians living outside our borders, facing Hungarians living within our borders. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He didn't say that! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What about Hungarians in Hungary? Answer me if they got... the president's ringing.]] Shame on you, Congressman, and the entire DK faction. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Did the Hungarians from across the border... György Balla to Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are not in the market, Congresswoman!]] But let us not deviate from today's subject, Congressman. Congressman, I would remind you that when we talk about a care fee, we are talking about people who are in a very difficult situation, because they care for family members who are incapable of self-sufficiency. I also believe that these people are worthy and worthy of appreciation. [[László Varju: Then why don't you?]] You were State Secretary for three years, during which time the amount of the care fee did not increase by a penny, in any category. [[Morai and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties, among them: Yes!]] So I ask you, when you have the opportunity to act, [[The president's ringing again.]] Why don't they act [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's 2018!]] Why are you asking for this when you don't have a way to do it? But let us remind you of what happened compared to this. While the current care fee increased by 15 per cent from 2005 to 2010, the same amount increases by 270 per cent from 2010 onwards, along with the current decision. [[A statement from the governing parties' benches: Do you understand this number, old man?]] The benefit was separated from the minimum amount of the old-age pension as of 1 January 2011, and since then, this amount has been determined annually in a budgetary law. A person who receives a care allowance or who is entitled to a pension by reaching the retirement age is also entitled to a healthcare service. In fact, we introduced the support of long-term care professionals in the elderly, in HUF 50,000 a month. But what decision have we now made in view of these people, who are really in a very difficult situation? Those who do not care for their children receive a 30 - percent increase in several steps. For the first time, we're raising their care fee by 15 percent, which is already higher than you've ever given these people. And those who care for their children who are incapable of self-sufficiency at home, they care for their children, we immediately raised their care fee to HUF 100,000 in one step, and then we will raise their care fee up to the minimum wage. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] And one more distinction immediately, Congressman; so far we have distinguished between sick and sick parents. I do not know who is able and entitled to say which child is more difficult to care for: who is mentally seriously injured, but physically intact, or who is physically seriously injured, but spiritually sound? So far, such a distinction has worked. We have also eliminated this, each parent will be entitled to the highest amount of care and three times the amount and the minimum wage of that time, since they will receive a uniform amount of HUF 100 thousand from 1 January, which was welcomed by those involved. And, yes, it is very difficult for those who do not care for their children. And it is very difficult for those who care for their parents, grandparents, or grandparents to work, to go to work and take care of their parents at night. It is also difficult for those who receive a care fee, and perhaps even more difficult for those who are unexpectedly affected by a situation where their child is born sick. These parents will also be greatly assisted by the introduction of a care fee for children. Congressman, I would like to suggest to you that you do not wear T-shirts, but when you will. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The vote will take place, then vote in favour of the children's home care fee. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right!]]
u2018-11-12-102	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]] You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-103	Thank you very much. I don't accept it. I'm going to tell Mr. President about this in advance. Dear Secretary of State, I think the answer you have just given me was quite unworthy. [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] You managed to politicize me so much that if I wanted to continue in this style, I could also say that you did not regret giving 3 billion forints to a settlement in Vojvodina where a stadium was built instead of being valued by these people. [[Intercom from DK's benches: That's right!]] So on this basis, but I'm going to continue by saying that, as I feel free to say to your fellow Member, I know that number, 33,000 people were left on the side of the road with a pack of diapers, and that is why you refer to it as an increase in some content. This is unacceptable, because you are responsible not only for children but also for all families and home care. At last, do something! [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-11-12-104	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence. When will the employees of the Honvéd Hospital receive the promised raise? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2018-11-12-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. As you know, the emergency center of the Honvéd Hospital is now on the verge of collapse. Recent, catastrophic wage conditions have led to a mass exodus of people working in the institution. We have come to the point that, in many cases, ophthalmologists, dermatologists, have to treat acute emergency cases. The 250 million forints of wage and asset development promised in February did not arrive at the emergency centre, despite repeated vows. [[16.20]] The management of the hospital was therefore forced to stop the remaining workers with the promise of an additional increase of HUF 200 million in September, in order to avoid total collapse. Based on the wage increase finalized in October, the cost of the replacement doctors would have increased to HUF 13,000 per hour, and the specialists would have increased to HUF 10,000 per month, and qualified nurses would have expected a salary supplement of HUF 60-90 per month, auxiliary nurses and medical suppliers would have added HUF 20-30 thousand per month, plus additional HUF 40,000 forints for heads of department and HUF 20 thousand forints for group heads, as well as a post of professional and social managers with HUF 20-20,000 forints. Let's see what has come of all of this. E.R. and Attendings have received a raise, but not candidates and residents. Some even had less money to take home in October than before. So they should settle for the usual government promises, but they can't buy bread from it, and that doesn't make them able to provide care properly in the hospital because of the overload. I would like to draw the State Secretary's attention to the fact that, when health care has been reorganized, the entire system, with a significant increase in the territorial supply obligation of the Honvéd Hospital, which is now more than one million people. In addition, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who must also be cared for, as they are entitled to demand, people who serve the safety of Hungary, law enforcement workers and soldiers, and their relatives who claim to be entitled to care. As a result of the situation, not only those who are entitled to a claim, but also more than one million people, due to the obligation to provide territorial care, can suffer from a shortage of care, and this could now endanger the lives of patients in several cases. It is terribly sad that for the fourth time, the pro-government majority of the Defence and Police Committee refused to put the situation of the Honvéd Hospital on the agenda so that we could discuss it. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State to respond here at the plenary session when the employees of the Honvéd Hospital will finally receive the promised increase in salaries and what steps the Ministry will take to resolve the recurring problems.
u2018-11-12-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Németh Szilárd responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're continuing to rumble over the past few weeks with this unsubstantiated and completely malicious question. You are abusing the rights of your representatives in their entirety, because either you have received non-public confidential information disguised as a written question, and then you are falsifying them in that part of the liberal press that is extremely susceptible to this and belongs to your political camp, or you are turning it all around, and you are here in Parliament referring to certain press reports, false news without any basis, to a question like you have just shared with us. You're trying to show up here in front of everyone as if you understand the subject, and I don't think you have the faintest idea what's going on at the Honvéd Hospital, because you're constantly publishing the data you receive as a representative. I'm going to prove that right now, because I'm going to tell you that, not only is there a crisis at the Honvéd Hospital, but the wage conditions have not brought the Honvéd Hospital and its operation to the level of collapse, but the opposite is true. All the allowances were paid to the doctors, all the pay supplements, all the wage increases were given to the doctors, in their planned form and time. Let's see what really happened at the emergency center of the Honvéd Hospital. In this centre, I would like to emphasise once again the payment of the salary supplement previously indicated by the management, contrary to the statement of the congresswoman, which the head of the Centre's doctor and senior nurse prepared in proportion to performance on the basis of the duties undertaken and worked in the previous month, and the payments were approved by the maintainer. Accordingly, this month, public service doctors, including residents and candidates for specialist training, received an increase in wages. The salary supplement totaled 18 million 773 thousand forints, on average 137 thousand forints per person. At the beginning of November, public employees received a salary supplement of HUF 6.6 million, which is an average of HUF 64 700 per person. The institution refers to the hospital's emergency center army population in the past few days, with an increase of HUF 936 thousand for doctors and HUF 1.2 million for the professionals. It should be noted that prior to all this, the Centre's doctors were allocated HUF 4.3 million in September, HUF 1.7 million for the workers, HUF 18.773 million for the doctors in October and HUF 7.8 million for the professionals, also in proportion to the performances shown by the head doctor and the senior nurse. Thus, in September, a doctor could bring home an amount equivalent to HUF 765 529 and HUF 1 445 076 in October. The same workmen had 279 510 and 387 885 forints. It is clear from this that the management of the Honvéd Hospital and the wallet, acting under their own authority, are doing everything in their power to appreciate the workers and to appreciate their sacrifices. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-108	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-109	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer. I won't tell you anything new: Mr. Secretary, you're lying again. It's very kind of you to care so much about my person here in the Demeter Daily, but you know, instead of the political theater you're performing here, you might have to deal with the 1.5 million people who belong to the Honvéd Hospital as patients; that's the number of people you should be able to flotate at the Honvéd Hospital, but you don't provide the right operating conditions. As Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, you have now demonstrated to you the importance of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the staff of law enforcement agencies, as you have listed here who has received the wages, but not the pay sign that you have to receive, but the fact that what you have promised and should have been given in order to be able to function properly, why you have not done so to this day. So now, Mr. Secretary, instead of political theatre, you should finally govern with responsibility.
u2018-11-12-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. [[L. Simon László: Mr President, please add my yes.]] Congressman L. Simon László's machine didn't work, so please add your vote to the vote. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: - Why does the Fidesz government, which pursues austerity policy, take an average of HUF 90,000 each from two million Hungarian workers? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-11-12-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. While large companies receive hundreds of billion-dollar gifts from the government, workers will receive a tax increase. The Fidesz government puts two million underpaid Hungarian workers in worse situations by knocking down the cafeteria. The average loss of a two-seek family is 180,000 forints per year, but it can be up to 800,000 forints. Workplace catering, school start-up allowance, local rental, housing allowance, pension and health insurance employer's payment or employer's take-over of student loan repayment will be taxed as a means of income in the future. [[16.30]] It's a brutal tax increase. The Fidesz government, which claims to be the government for tax reductions, now has a 10 percent tax increase on workers. The Fidesz government, which boasts economic growth, pursues a hard-line austerity policy. If it were really important for government parties to support families, to tackle labour shortages, to promote mobility, they would not increase but reduce the tax on cafeteria. If they really wanted to encourage employment, they would reduce taxes on small and medium-sized wages rather than exempt large companies from public burdens. But Fidesz is not in the interests of the employees, but of the large capitalists, not the 99 percent, but the 1 percent. The government claims it's a way to reduce the tax administration. It's like explaining to the thirster that they're not giving him water because they're trying to protect him from spilling water on himself. If the Fidesz government was trying to protect something or someone, it didn't work out. I beg you, on behalf of two million people, not to protect workers from cafeteria. Any employer who doesn't want to be bothered with the administration doesn't already give his employees a cafeteria. Secretary of State, why are you ignoring the clear stand of trade unions? Why do they want to virtually prohibit employers from providing extra-wage benefits? Why do they want to take hundreds of thousands of forints from two million workers and their families every year? Is Fidesz's policy really driven by affection for austerity policy? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2018-11-12-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you allow a comment on the interpellation submitted, this is literally the same as the oral question you submitted a week ago. To be honest, this makes your question on a regular basis a little discredited and a little frivolous. I think you've had the right answer to these questions in the last week. Look, the fact that a Member asks the same question every week in the form of a question or an interpellation, from a doctoral candidate, an assistant professor, seems, frankly, rather frivolous. [[Interviews from the dialogue. A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Now, let's get to your question. Now I'm going to approach my answer differently, try to shed some light on what the point of a cafeteria change is. I'll tell you how the public burdens have changed since 2010, or I'll put it as a question. Do you know how much personal income tax was in 2010? I'll help you: the bottom key was 21,6 percent, and the top key, along with the super grossing, was 40,6 percent at the time. Now, you know, Congressman, there's one key: 15 percent. I'm asking you, do you know how much the family tax relief was? Let's talk about the change of public burdens. What was the family tax relief for two children in 2010, Congressman? I'll tell you what, zero forints. From January 1, 2019, do you know how much it will be? Forty thousand forints a month. And do you know how much tax relief for three children was in 2010? It was 12,000 forints a month. Now do you know, Congressman, how much is the family tax allowance for three children? 99 thousand forints. But I'm going to continue with you to understand how the public burdens, the tax burden on incomes have changed. Do you know, Congressman, how much was it, then they called it the social security contribution in 2010? Now it's called a social contribution tax. I'll tell you, 27 percent. Now I'm going to tell you what it is now: 19.5 percent. And you do realize, according to the six-year wage agreement, this will continue to decrease to 15.5 percent or less. Well, that's how the public burdens in Hungary have changed in recent years. Employees should not receive their wages in different cafeteria and other benefits in kind, but as regular incomes and wages. Now the reduction of public burdens will enable all employers to pay work wages rather than a variety of benefits instead of wages. That's why the rules of the cafeteria changed. Moreover, the cafeteria has not ceased, as the SZÉP card will continue, catering and tourism will continue to be preferred in the future, and the employees will be able to receive this at the same discount. As to your comment that Fidesz's austerity policy: I am sorry, Congressman, I have to recreate your electoral programme. You would have brought in the austerity if you'd been on the wheel. But thank God they didn't. What am I talking about? What I'm talking about is that instead of 15 percent, you would have introduced 30 percent personal income tax, I'm talking about raising corporate tax from 9 percent to 19 percent. So the Fidesz government is not in favour of austerity policy, it is in favour of dialogue, the adjutant is in favour of austerity policy.
u2018-11-12-114	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-11-12-115	Unfortunately, the Secretary of State's response was unsatisfactory, just like last week, not this time. It seems that we have to ask this question every week until January, because if you want to take 100,000 forints from two million people, then the Dialogue will ask you every week why. In fact, you guys are worse than this because you're gonna continue to provoke the workers. They returned the preferential taxation of a piece of cafeteria element, namely a visit to sports events. Although the employee is unable to use support to enroll the child in school, he cannot use support for house loans or work catering, but in order to go to the football game, they would give support themselves. They provoke people, draw hundreds of thousands from Hungarian families, while serving the interests of the top 1 percent and the capital. This is the policy of Fidesz, this restrictive Orbán package, and I do not accept the answer of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2018-11-12-116	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, if I may... thank you. Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When does the change of attitude start in family policy? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government's family policy measures do not address at all many of the phenomena that are detrimental to society, such as still taking the most children in the lowest income groups and even the highest rate of growth among them. This means, therefore, that we will continue to recreate poverty, because the great family, in itself, carries this risk to its shame. Social mobility channels are practically closed. We are the worst in this regard in the European Union. If we take all this into account, we can also say that in the middle class there is much less progress than expected, with almost no increase in childishness among them. Government measures have therefore proved to be low, low-efficiency. At the same time, I am convinced that there is a serious failure of policy, especially of the government, not only in terms of money but also in terms of changing attitudes. All research supports, for example, the fact that increasing fathers' family involvement would greatly help them to have more children and to have more balanced families. [[16.40]] What measures are planned to encourage this? We cannot go without saying that the childlessness rate of the 40-year-old population has doubled over a generation, which we might also be able to reduce if the image of a successful woman was a natural part of motherhood, which is also the most beautiful female profession. Let's make it more attractive for everyone. Not only is the low birth rate, but emigration also contributes to population loss, and it is quite amazing that the government simply denies this problem and even talks about more coming home than the number of people going out. It is true that the rate of emigration has decreased in recent years, but it was evident that this will happen as time progresses, but it is not the case that this trend has been reversed, and there are no serious government measures to support the repatriation or to preserve the identity of Hungarians living abroad. So I ask the Secretary of State: when will they finally face these problems and start to act? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare round of applause among the non-attached Members.]]
u2018-11-12-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Novák is responding to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, For us, every child is a treasure, so the birth of every child is a treasure, and we want to support everyone who has a responsible child in Hungary in this decision. You must know the demographic situation of Hungary, which is typical of Europe as a whole. We have had to face population decline since 1981. Since 1981, more people have died every year than are born. We wanted to respond to this phenomenon when we launched a family-friendly governance in 2010, announced a family-friendly policy, and put families with children and children at the centre of our governance. This has results and even has tangible results. If you look at just the most characteristic indicator or the most important indicator, the desire to have children, the so-called fertility index, you can see that this has increased by more than 20 percent compared to the previous one, and even 20 years have not had children's desire as high as it is now in Hungary. This is true of marriages. Finally, the number of marriages has increased to over 50,000. This indicator has not been this high for a very long time, it has increased nearly one-and-a-half times compared to 2010. We can also be glad that more and more people choose the large family lifestyle in Hungary. Today, taking on a large family is no longer a risk of poverty, and today the perception of large families is becoming more and more positive, so more and more people dare to say yes to the big family, the big family way of life. I also consider it to be a serious achievement that, contrary to the international trend, while the age of childbearing started to shift in Hungary, the consequence of which is, in part, what she spoke of, seems to have stopped in Hungary, so perhaps we have managed to stop the shift in the date of childbearing, as I agree that it is important for young people to have the courage to say yes to life, to have children, to have a family, and not to miss the number of children actually born. She has also mentioned specific points, which I would also like to respond to. I also consider it important to help women to have a profession at the same time and to have children in addition to their lives. In fact, I would go further than that: I also think it is important for motherhood to be a profession that someone can live by being a means of achieving it, so I also consider the support of full-time motherhood to be of particular importance. But to make work and family compatible with each other, and to have examples for women that show that someone can be a successful woman in their work, and also successful in motherhood, as well as in motherhood, this is supported by the ged extra, which we introduced in 2014, that it is possible to raise children in addition to working, the two are not mutually exclusive. This is also helped by the fact that there are grandmothers, and the women can help working mothers thanks to 40, which is supported by the fact that there are 16,000 more cradle seats now than there were in 2010; or by helping mothers to do their atypical work, right now, by opening up family and career points. We also try to encourage fathers to play an active role in family life. I would like to indicate to you that the number of fathers receiving your child has increased by almost 80 percent, so there are more and more people who are taking part in family roles in this way, so I think it is important that parents share in this. With the young people, you're talking about putting together data here. I'd like to tell you what the KSH, the Central Statistical Office's official migration statistics show. According to this, while 25,000 people left to work abroad, 28 500 people returned the same year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it's factually true that more people came back than they did to get a job. This is what the year of families and a significant part of our actions should be about as family-friendly as possible. [[The president's ringing again.]] I trust that Hungary is indeed on its way to a family-friendly country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-120	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-121	Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept the answer because, although I acknowledge the results that you have listed and that there has been real progress, this must be accepted or recognised by all sound Members of Parliament, but at the same time it has not mentioned my suggestion of reducing the need to have children for a living at all. On the other hand, the latest research on the statistics of emigration, the Demographic Portrait, which also appeared in the care of KSH, also points out that we can only talk about a declining trend, but emigration is still an existing phenomenon in our country. I would also like these problems to be focussed on by the government's policy and to be able to provide effective answers to these issues, which would lead to their decline, and would indeed be a characteristic of responsible childbearing and motherhood in all parts of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause among the non-attached Members.]]
u2018-11-12-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 25 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. While Hungary spends serious money on border protection, others consciously support illegal migration with money! By whose authority are taxpayers' money allocated? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-123	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Hungary has made considerable efforts in recent years to effectively protect the borders of our country and the Schengen area. High amounts of money, human strength and infrastructure have been transferred to the southern border in order to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people and protect Hungary from the tens of thousands of illegal migrants and hundreds of thousands of them. However, according to news released last week, this is not the case everywhere. Indeed, people, organisations and groups are not in favour of curbing illegal migration, but rather of its strong organisation and support. According to press reports, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants in the Balkans are buying with an anonymous bank card with the High Commissioner for Refugees and the EU logo. The migrants coming from an otherwise disadvantaged area thus arrive at the border of the Schengen area in branded clothes, shoes and possession of expensive smartphones. What is this if it is not an open organisation and support for illegal immigration? Who wouldn't want to go to Europe immediately from these disadvantaged countries if word got out that they were only asking for it and were already producing an anonymous bank card filled with money in Greece? According to my knowledge, in 2017 alone, at least 46,000 migrants received the gift money worth HUF 18 billion. Dear Secretary of State, This outrageous and shocking procedure is another proof that some people are not meant to curb illegal migration, but to strengthen it. It has become clear that illegal migration is co-financed by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Brussels. In the background lies the billionaire magnate György Soros, who spends billions of dollars in the system with the help of NGOs operating as part of the Union and the Soros Empire. In order to fully comply with the Soros plan, the European Union is adding a significant share of European taxpayers' money, including the Hungarian people's tax forints. This is outrageous and outrageous. [[16.50]] Dear Secretary of State, To my knowledge, Hungary has spent nearly EUR 900 million to protect the borders of our country and the Schengen area. Thanks to this, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants have not flooded our spaces, and we have also been able to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people. In view of the above, I ask that, while our country is making serious efforts to protect its borders, on the basis of which mandate billions of dollars are in favour of further strengthening illegal migration. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Undoubtedly, the biggest challenge for our continent is illegal migration and its response. Europe has pro-immigration and pro-security governments. Our government clearly prioritises security, the security of the Hungarian people is the most important for the Hungarian government, and it is guaranteed. We therefore consider migration to be a bad and dangerous process, which we believe should not be organised, but stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also not a question of the fact that the European Commission, the current European Commission, has the worst balance sheet of all time and is causing enormous damage to the European Union itself. Brussels was unable to manage the migration wave and thus Europe's terrorist threat has become unprecedented. In 2015, more than 30 terrorist attacks were carried out in Europe, including perpetrators, migrants or persons with a migration background. The number of victims is over 330, and the number of victims is over 1300. In addition, for the first time in the history of the Union, the number of Member States is decreasing and not increasing. However, the issue of credit cards and anonymous credit cards issued to migrants goes beyond all borders, even from this weak European Commission. This is the financing and support of immigration, organised smuggling. It is an outrageous fact, as Mr President mentioned, that Hungary has spent EUR 900 million on border protection, until then the European Commission and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees have distributed millions of euros between tens of thousands of migrants with the help of various NGOs, NGOs and NGOs. This is not only unacceptable, but one of the most serious security issues for Europe today. Instead of stopping immigration, Brussels finances it from taxes on European citizens, including Hungarian citizens. What the bureaucrats in Brussels are doing together with the UN is an invitation to 30-35 million people who want to move from Africa and the Middle East to Europe, and we have no doubt they will start. We would like to reject in the strongest terms the approach that migration is a fundamental human right, as well as the need for Brussels to ensure the safety of migrants rather than of European people. This proves once again that this current Commission is completely inadequate to lead the European Union and that UN bureaucrats are extremely pro-immigration. Anonymous credit cards issued to migrants are not only a threat to the security of the European Union, they are also a violation of the Union's legal order, and we must take the utmost action against this. This decisive action will be an excellent opportunity for next year, next year's European Union elections, in which everyone can express their views, because Europe needs a leadership that is in the interest of the European people and is able to protect the continent's security against illegal immigration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-126	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-127	Mr President, Dear House, I think that whoever is responsible for the future of the continent, the future of Europe, can clearly see that the policies of the UN and the European Union are dangerous, because they are constantly trying to create an inspiring atmosphere for all those who would move towards Europe. For this reason, credit cards could actually be called synonymous invitations, since they clearly encourage everyone from all over the world to start, because Europe is waiting for them wide open. On the other hand, the reality is that action must be taken to protect our continent, to protect our borders. What we think is that what we need is to be able to help security against the strengthening of migration, and to guarantee security. I continue to encourage the Hungarian Government to do so, and we hope that next year's European Parliament elections will also provide important support. Thank you, and I accept the answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours 55 minutes and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who wish to leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, to do so quietly and in a short way. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we proceed to the discussion of immediate questions, on a point of order, Mr Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for the floor on a personal basis. I would like to inform the Member that he has a two-minute timeframe, and I would ask him to remain on the subject, what has been affecting you personally. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Congressman Simon for having given me the opportunity, with his interpellation, to respond, after the journalists sent to me by the Minister of Propaganda, to whom I have recently responded to the grievances which I have suffered, here in the walls of this House, to respond to the predicaments that Mr. I've known my wife for 30 years, we've been happily married for 25 years, we had our silver wedding in August. So, I've known my brother-in-law for 30 years, who I've never been in any business relationship with in 30 years, and we've never earned a penny together, and I've never had anything to do with his companies and businesses. Anyone who says otherwise is lying. Allow me, since this is about my wife's family, to send an unusual message to my wife from the walls of this House. Honey, thank you so much for 30 years of fighting a lot of battles together, always helping each other. I owe it all to you, so don't worry about slander right now, the point is that we know the truth. We will still have to fight very, very many battles in the future, and we will have to win these battles, because without you, I am nothing. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]]
u2018-11-12-130	Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. György Szi-Lágyi and... please, my fellow Members, we will continue our work. Thank you. Congresswoman, thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, Márton Gyöngyösi and Tibor Bana, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Members whether they will accept the person who is responding, or whether they will ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. [[Tibor Bana rises to speak, but his microphone doesn't work.]] Yeah, I've already alerted my colleagues. I think, by the way, that we understand your word... [[Tibor Bana: We'll wait for Prime Minister.]] Thank you very much. Congressman, a very noble answer, we understand. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] We are also talking about my better fellow Members, so you will speak up if you allow me to give you the floor. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long does power abuse all our patience? It's an address. [[17.00]] The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári State Secretary for the response to the urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the person of the responder, or personally... [[On the sign of János Stummer:]] Yes, you have the floor, please.
u2018-11-12-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, A few tens of thousands of forints a month, this is not money for you, they might not even notice it if it suddenly disappeared from their wallets, but people who have no other care, and because of the deterioration of their health have no chance of working, these few tens of thousands of forints of disability benefits meant survival until you took it away from them. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, What has come to light in the last few days on disability benefits is equivalent to your downfall. However, they could have protected themselves and those involved from this scandalum, because in 2011 in the parliamentary debate of the relevant law, we clearly drew your attention to the dangers that have since proved to be true. But even though we tried to get you to understand better, all well-meaning proposals have been swept off the table since then with the usual swagger from your political community. We told them that even though the system of invalid pensions has the highest number of stowaways, the solution is not to drive a lawnmower through the system like you did. We have said that the reviews cannot be carried out in such an unworthy and humiliating way that the advocacy organisations can be forced out of it as you have done. And we told you a lot more, but you didn't move your ears, pretending you didn't hear these arguments. Ladies and gentlemen. You have destroyed these vulnerable fellow citizens, you have destroyed the families affected, and no matter how much you decide to correct them, we have no illusions, the government will start again, the red, the red and the red, and they will make a nice, undetected loss of proportionate compensation. And why? Because once again, their ego will triumph over their conscience, because you believe that no one else in this country can be right except you and only you. You won't, you won't. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Secretary of State of Rétvár? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-132	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-12-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let's see what the package of measures you are opposed to, what a package of measures wouldn't have been made if Jobbik were in a decision-making situation. The employment level of the disabled was 18 percent in 2010; you said that you would not vote again for the legislative amendments that increased this from 18 percent to 40 percent. You would make 22 percent of the disabled unemployed unemployed in one step. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're a good communist, my friend, you're a good communist!]] Let's see how much they'd reduce the resources. While 34 billion forints were available for rehabilitation employment in 2013, now 42, you would take 8 billion forints and take 20-25 per cent of the available funds. If we look at what measures you did not support today, and you said that you would withdraw if you had the opportunity, the number of employers who used a rehabilitation card to employ people with disabilities would be increased from 3217 to 9125. In Hungarian, you would give a third of the number of employers who employ people with disabilities; and the number of people who work with a rehabilitation card has risen from 5574 to 37 245 between now, you would take away the rehabilitation card from these people and take away the job. We had the basic attitude that anyone who could work could work, maybe not have the same job as others, but to do some kind of job. This is obviously an additional cost for employers, since these people need extra attention, extra training, more difficult jobs, so we give them a total of HUF 42 billion to ensure that the disabled also have a full life. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause they're supposed to be in a normal job. That's the opportunity you'd take from them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As regards your questions and your preliminary opinion, I can tell you that my reply is not, and I would like to tell the President that I do not accept the Secretary of State's answer. From the publication of the Constitutional Court ruling, this is the first time that this case has been brought to the House's table, and although I did not specifically draw the Secretary of State's attention to this, it does not seem to have occurred to him on his own, so I will do it, and I will draw his attention to it: Mr Secretary of State, a few hundred thousand people, many tens of thousands of families with whom they have done this in recent years. Secretary of State, are you apologizing on behalf of the government and its party alliance? I'd like you to answer that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-136	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-12-137	Thank you very much. If it's an apology, maybe you should apologize to your good-looking colleagues today. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Sorry, say we're sorry. Dániel Z. Kárpát: This was a very prol, this is even unworthy of you!]] But I would like to continue with the series of help we intend to give these people in the future, because from development we have launched a programme to help 13,000 people, of which we are trying to help 8,000 people to work, precisely so that this opportunity can continue in the future. We allow income to be paid up to 150 percent of the minimum wage, precisely because, thanks to God in Hungary, wages are now growing, people can earn more, people can earn more. Honourable Congressman, Not only did you miss the genre by accepting or not accepting the answer, as this is the hour of instant questions and answers, not the period of interpellations, the two-hour period, but I see you have missed a genre here too, because you clearly opposed and considered the laws that gave a certain livelihood, job and perspective not only to eleven percent of the disabled, but 40 percent. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-138	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is going on in the Ministry of the Interior? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for the response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-12-139	Mr President, The Károly Kontra is present here in the last six months...
u2018-11-12-140	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-12-141	... indeterminately illegal manner...
u2018-11-12-142	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-143	...in a manner that violates the authority of the Parliament...
u2018-11-12-144	I'm waiting for your answer: do you accept it or not?
u2018-11-12-145	...so that's why he's... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] It's not acceptable to me.
u2018-11-12-146	I've withdrawn the floor, Congressman. Have a seat.
u2018-11-12-147	I just told you that your identity is not acceptable, and I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2018-11-12-148	Congressman, it's not about telling us your question before you reject the person you're responding to. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You have to say no! Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I didn't tell you the question!]] Please proceed according to the rules of the house. Thank you. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I didn't tell you the question! Why not?]] Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Where did the money go from the Heves County Enterprise Development Foundation? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-11-12-149	The Minister is fine with me, of course. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-11-12-150	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-151	Thank you very much. Nearly two decades ago, the National Entrepreneurship Foundations were established with public participation, and Heves County, as in all counties, the Heves County Enterprise and Regional Development Foundation was established by the establishment of the county assembly and the city of Eger and Hatvan. According to the latest data, one of the competent committees of the Heves County General Assembly has put its management on the agenda, and this management report showed that some HUF 1.1 billion is missing from existing funds and available funds, since the foundation closed with a HUF 500 million plus in 2016 and nearly HUF 600 million minus in 2017. The new chairman of the board of trustees Vilmos Skultéti, who told one of the newspapers that I quote -:, The previous chairman of the board is Zoltán Farkas, because of his activities, the foundation is currently in a very step-by-step state of bankruptcy, and the organization has a serious financial deficit of HUF 1.1 billion, which is the task of the new management. The former chairman of the board of trustees considered the foundation as his own business, so he took everything into his own hands, kept all the invoices, cases, even the organization's website in his own hands. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.10]] That is why I am asking Minister what they are doing to eliminate this mob network, because that is what it is. In addition, what are they doing to recover public funds? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-11-12-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, who will answer the immediate question. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-11-12-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mr President, for your question, and in answer to your question, I can inform this House of the following things. Indeed, Vilmos Skultéti, the new chairman of the Board of Directors, informed the Hungarian Development Bank that the mandate of the former Board President had ceased, and in July 2018 he took over the leadership of this foundation. An official transfer/receiving has not yet taken place, its primary task is to carry out a partial screening of the Foundation's previous operation and to examine the development of the outstanding debt. Indeed, the representatives of the Foundation consider the possibility of bringing a criminal complaint against the former President and, at the same time, of taking decisions on the additional solvency of the Foundation's assets. As a result, the Foundation will review its current portfolio, increase the activity of the recovery activity, as the Foundation has significant outstanding liabilities, inform the MFB thereof, and the Foundation will prepare a short business plan for the bank on how the short-term settlement of the outstanding debt is considered feasible in addition to increasing the activity of the recovery activity. So that is what I am able to inform this House, and that is what happened during the time of the change of president. Since then, the due diligence of the portfolio has started, but this has not yet come to an end. The Foundation shall have a strategy developed to settle the outstanding debt. At the same time, I was informed that the criminal report had been filed against an unknown unsub. Overall, therefore, an investigation is under way in relation to the former management of the Foundation, and we hope that we will be able to close the case soon. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-154	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-155	Thank you very much. We're talking about one of Fidesz's trusted men and money makers. Everyone in mouse knows this boy. In this protocol, which I have, the Commission's report states that it derives from the impairment of previously deposited funds, since their return is doubtful, because a large part of the companies concerned are in liquidation. What are we talking about in black? They've deposited money that the companies they've relocated to have been forced down, and there's no way they're gonna get these money back. This is a serious achievement; in a small town like this, to make 1.1 billion forints disappear in a year without a trace of it at the end of the year, this is a serious achievement. Plus, this man because everyone knows he stole from his own party. I have the signature of Demeter Ervin on a record where he stole the membership fees from Fidesz and stole the funds from Fidesz. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Pál Völner: Then he was your man!]] I hear Adam Mirkóczki has a record like that. [[Defiance.]]
u2018-11-12-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I haven't ringed the bell yet, but, yeah, the minute's up. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can repeat what I just said about the complaint being filed in this case, the investigation is under way. I have no role in predicting the results of this investigation. I do not know the gentlemen against whom Mr. Congressman has made these accusations. I have to say that the Hungarian judiciary is in a position and condition to investigate and investigate cases of this type, so let us wait for the end of this investigation. What I informed you about earlier, but it was unnecessary, because Congressman also had the record statement, the foundation started collecting and recovering the outstanding liabilities that were still outstanding from the previous period. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-158	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question [[Agnes Kunhalmi: DK! DK first!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When does Hungarian legislation bring justice to three and a half million people? It's an address. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Do not insult DK! This is outrageous!]] Excuse me, dear Congresswoman, I'll follow you. Where is Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai? [[Noise, interruptions: only his spirit is here! Gergely Harvesto: I will tell you!]] The speech was launched by a congresswoman, and I could not find it in the room. So Ágnes Vadai and Gergely Arató, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you think that? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he would like to ask the Prime Minister himself.
u2018-11-12-159	After only Prime Minister knows why you think so, we'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2018-11-12-160	Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. One second, please. Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why does he fund his unscientific hobby with public money? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-12-161	Since I am interested in the activities of the Orbán government, not Gyurcsány...
u2018-11-12-162	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-12-163	...so I'd like to wait for Minister. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's past tense!]]
u2018-11-12-164	Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Does the government help foreign exchange lenders? It's an address. Minister, it's urgent... [[Noise, clarity.]] No, Minister, he's here. Dear Parliament, So I give the floor to Congressman Székely.
u2018-11-12-165	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, In today's Hungary there are many problems, from wages to education, not to mention the tragic state of health, but there is a case that may be even more serious among all of them, and this is the case of foreign exchange lenders. Because today in Hungary, apart from the fact that the average person cannot be sure that he will have a pension, there is only one more threat, and the question is whether there will be a roof over his head, say, in a month's time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You've been in power for nine years, unfortunately. During your reign, the forint exchange rate floated, and you are the ones who released the more efficient social groups from the debt trap, while the average Hungarians were sentenced to pay their loans for cynical and vile political reasons and personal gain. Today, millions of people in Hungary are working to make a living and to pay off their hugely grown mortgage, which banks and the state do not want to let go even if they have paid off their loans and interest rates a long time ago, as what is due is due to the banks, even if half the country dies. Hundreds of thousands of human fates are filled with constant existential fear, the crowds of children are frustrated by their parents' torments. Suicides, alcoholism, the disintegration of the lower middle class all suggest that immediate and urgent intervention is needed here. I therefore ask the Minister what concrete steps the government intends to take to ensure that the evictions are not resumed in spring. Does the government intend to deal with the foreign exchange credit problem and housing crisis affecting a third of the Hungarian population? Will you vote for the creation of the ad hoc committee I have proposed so that we can solve this problem together? I look forward to your reply with respect.
u2018-11-12-166	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your question, because I can say again that this government started its work in 2010 by inheriting a very serious problem from previous governments. [[Noise, interrupting from DK's ranks: Obsessed!]] Between 2004-2008, the system of mortgage-based foreign exchange loans became a mass in Hungary, and after the 2008 crisis, hundreds of thousands of people were in a very serious situation. It is a well-known fact that there were 1 million 700 thousand such mortgage-based foreign exchange credit contracts, and in 2010 we had to start the work that led it out of the system and tightened it up, making it almost impossible for such a new type of foreign exchange-based mortgage to be created. What I would like to add is that during March-April 2015, banks had to account for the reimbursement of overpayments due to unfair exchange rate gaps and unilateral contractual amendments to their clients' currency-based loans. At the beginning of 2015, foreign exchange-based mortgage loans were forinted first, and then at the end of the year the consumer loans were forinted. Thus, by 2016, retail foreign exchange loans were essentially issued. [[17.20]] The congressman draws attention to eviction. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of amendments have been made to the enforcement procedures, which have a positive impact on debtors. Let me highlight some of these. It is important to point out that it is a determining factor in the design of all implementing procedures to strike a balance between two conflicting, mutually acceptable interests, the interests of the applicant for enforcement and the interests of the debtor. For this purpose, the private institution exists as of 1 September 2015 and, at the same time, it has been included in the implementing law that there is also an obligation to notify notaries who apply for enforcement, auctioneers, as of 1 July 16, and that this government has also launched the eviction moratorium. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask for my answer to be accepted, honourable Member. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-168	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-169	Minister, thank you very much for the answer. Unfortunately, I cannot accept this. We meet dozens of people every day, and we all know that tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families live in a situation where they do not know what will happen to them. These loans may have been issued, and now there is no such foreign currency loan, which you initiated in 2001, but these loans have an effect that you took in before. There's an amazing amount of people in the situation where they haven't found their property in a long time, they live in rent, and they're still paying off the loan. [[Interview from DK's ranks: One more lifetime!]] For the rest of your life, that's right, as they say to me here. It's quite amazing, and it's amazing that you're not willing to do anything about it. How many people do you have to put on the street? How many hundreds of thousands of people have to leave the country or get frustrated and spend the rest of their lives taking on all sorts of loans, which he simply thought would be good for him in a certain life situation, and then six years ago on a day of June 3, 2010, it turned out that he didn't, because that's when these foreign exchange loans went away. So when are you going to deal with what this government is supposed to do? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And the well-being of the people? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-12-170	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, That's what we do. The whole forinting, end-payment, the introduction of the private failure institution was all about it, and we've all fought with international institutions to help the people who are in this impossible situation. These people have been unfairly dealt with. This was regulated by law. The banks had to account for this attitude. I think what the government could do in this area did. We also made it possible for no eviction to take place during the autumn to spring, so as far as possible, no one will be on the street during the coldest and worst period. Honourable Congressman, Of course, human tragedies that had occurred could have been prevented if, before 2004, the government at that time had already drawn attention to the danger of this and displayed an attitude [[Intercoms from DK's ranks: He did it! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] allow me to finish what draws people's attention to the dangers and raises awareness of the type of risk associated with taking these loans. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Today, we can draw a lesson from this. We have done everything we can to ensure that such new or similar types of foreign exchange loans do not accumulate in households. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-172	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When will Hungarian legislation bring justice to three and a half million people? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2018-11-12-173	Mr President, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2018-11-12-174	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Delivery of a Company in connection with the Fundamental Law." Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2018-11-12-175	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-11-12-176	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-12-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, The downsizing in the public sector violates the Fundamental Law on several points. The Fundamental Law states that human existence is based on human dignity. I ask: how can we talk about respect for human dignity, when for several months the government has kept public sector workers in a state of uncertainty, and they do not even value people enough to thank them personally for their work and to give them up. A lot of people got their resignation through the client gate, and obviously because they don't dare look people in the eye. The Fundamental Law also states that the State has an obligation to preserve natural resources, soil, water resources and biodiversity. The government is experiencing a total attack on the position of environmental and nature protection over several decades. The grinding began from 2010 with the destruction of the institutional system. The Ministry of Environment has been abolished, the environmental authorities have been turned into János, and the industrial lobby takes everything to the detriment of the environment and human health. What is unforgivable is that the specialty has been thrown over to the agricultural purse, i.e. the goat has been entrusted with the cabbage, which is now confirmed by the reduction in the number of employees, since the number of environmental areas has been reduced by 44 percent, while the government has set a reduction of about 18 percent. The country's environmental and nature protection is now controlled by 71 people in the Agricultural Ministry, and it hangs in the air about the fate of national parks. There's news that they want to turn the ten national parks into four. After all this, Deputy Prime Minister, I ask how it is possible to achieve a 44 percent reduction in the environmental situation. Are you willing to override that? And my other question is, what will be the fate of national parks?
u2018-11-12-178	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say that you are wrong, so there will be cuts in numbers in the public sector in compliance with the laws and laws in force. We can't do otherwise, because under the provisions of the Public Service Officers Act, all relevant public service agreements and declarations of rights must be included in writing. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, which entered into force from 1 May 2017, the declaration of rights shall be deemed to be written if it is communicated in an electronic document. As an additional condition, the law states that documents may be issued by the employer's exerciser by electronic means, at least by electronic signatures with increased security. Therefore, these laws have been complied with by the government, and I think that, therefore, the dismissals under the heading of the reduction of the number of persons have been signed and served in a manner that is in line with the provisions of the law. I agree with you that this is a difficult human decision. We also tried to do the most humane way at my wallet and to help those in this situation. I would like to inform you, the House of Representatives, that, with the introduction of the "Career Bridge" programme, we will provide all such workers with the opportunity to receive assistance and placement within the framework of work counseling and guidance. I have to say that very few people have done so fortunately, so it seems that these people will be able to find a place in civilian life. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As regards your comments on the environment, I would like to say that you are wrong here too. The numbers and proportions you've said do not match the reality. There was only a proportional reduction in the number of employees everywhere. There is no threat to the work of environmental authorities. If you have any further questions in this direction, I suggest that you put them in the direction of the agricultural purse. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-180	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2018-11-12-181	Vice Prime Minister, I would not be proud of such legislation, then, that people who work in public administration for 15-20 years serve the common good with their expertise and find out that they are fired so that they are given an impersonal notice through the customer gate. Shame, I think in such a case, the law must be changed! [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Were you Secretary of State of Gyurcsány?]] [[17 .30]] And the other point is, I don't think I'm wrong about these last kicks to the environmental issue. You have constantly set aside the legal background of this institutional system and the need for an adequate number of people to be in control. It's obviously because environmental protection is considered to be a gentleman's mischief. And that we didn't get an answer to the national parks: if a layover starts, then the national parks will be completely killed. At a time when we are living in climate change, Hungary is one of the worst countries in Europe due to air pollution.
u2018-11-12-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-11-12-183	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your concern. I would like to tell you that I share your concern about the situation in the environment in general, but it doesn't get me caught up in the kind of extremes that I can distort data or not tell you exactly. Hungary is in no worse situation than any of the surrounding Central European countries [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] No one wants to eliminate or eliminate national parks, and no one wants to leave a state task, an official task unfulfilled. That's what I'm talking about. I can tell you here that there was a place where people were personally informed, where this was done by electronic means because of the number of people. Obviously, as many institutions as there were, there were so many ways. But that they have been legally implemented and that we have tried as hard as possible to help these people, I can tell you that. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-184	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Clown!]] , you want to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Why is Szilárd Kiss, Putin's man in Hungary untouchable? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Your Honor, Your Honor, I'm not the least respected. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Shame!]]
u2018-11-12-186	Congressman!
u2018-11-12-187	Your activities are a disgrace to justice. The D.A.'s office that you run is simply sabotaging the prosecution of the most outrageous Fidesz crimes. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You know better than that, don't you?]] All of Europe knows that Szilárd Kiss, a partner of Orbán's cashier, Lőrinc Mészáros, has issued 5800 Schengen visas illegally and indiscriminately, including Russian criminals and Putin's agents and spies. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyurcsány?]] All of Europe knows, from Hungarian voters to Russian courts to the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what crimes Szilárd Kiss may have committed, the Fidesz Putin agent. In 2015, the Dialogue reported an influence on trafficking and misuse of office. Now, after three and a half years of running a fever, the investigation was closed without an indictment. They did not request the Russian court ruling on Szilárd Kiss, they did not request information from the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor did they have any consequences for the destruction of the most important evidence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Péter Szijjártó. Péter Polt's prosecution protected the Fidesz Putin agent. But he also defended Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. On the initiative of Mr Benedek Jávor, MEP for Dialogue, István Tiborcz's company Elios, the European Anti-Fraud Office carried out the investigation and handed over a ready-to-use complaint to the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this the verdict, Comrade Virág?]] But you didn't do anything again, you didn't ask for information from damaged municipalities, you didn't interrogate witnesses, and you didn't realize in any way that there was a high-value budget fraud in a criminal organisation. [[György Balla: Because it didn't happen!]] My question is: Mr Polt, why are you protecting the Fidesz criminals, why are you protecting Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, and why are you protecting the Fidesz Putin agent instead of protecting the interests of the Hungarian people? Thank you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Thank you, Comrade Virág! It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2018-11-12-188	Honourable Congressman, Before I give the Attorney General the opportunity to answer, I'll inform you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Putin was not enough in the speech! More Putin in the next speech!]] I call you a honourable Member, and this is the custom in this House, as strange as it may seem to you. We'll honor our partner with at least that much if he doesn't want to. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And his first name is Dialogue!]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2018-11-12-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You've asked me about two crimes, both of which have been investigated, and I'll try to respond briefly to both. [[Standing up from Sándor Farkas' seat as Secretary of State, on the opposite line: Mr President! Mr. President. Car Cake Olivio is standing near the Attorney General, directing his cell phone to record.]] and ignore the personalist's remarks and reject the unfounded accusations of the prosecution.
u2018-11-12-190	[[For Car Cake Olivio:]] Be so kind. Excuse me, Mr. Attorney General, one moment, please. Congressman, I'd like to ask you to take your seat. My first warning. [[A statement from Jobbik: Why, Mr President?]] Because, fellow Members, we do not enter and take pictures in the Chamber, so far this is not allowed by the house rules. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Interview from Jobbik's ranks: You can take pictures! Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik defends the Dialogue!]] Please take a seat. We count the time. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks:]] My fellow Members, I have not opened a debate on this issue, and if you wish to do anything, you may do so on the House Committee next time. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But it is not in the house rules! Márton Gyöngyösi: You are not doing good!]] Mr. Attorney General, we'll include you in the time frame, and please understand that I've interrupted you.
u2018-11-12-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I'll continue. So, as far as the first case is concerned, in the case of this professional diplomat, the competent department of the BRMK conducted the investigation, and the subject of the investigation was the suspicion that it was involved in issuing business visas for which the conditions for issuing visas were not met. Basically, the investigation would have been based on the fact that the investigating authority would examine the visa applications individually. This was not possible because, according to the scrapping regulations, the issue of visas had been destroyed in the meantime before the investigation. Therefore, there was no possibility of finding evidence that would have shown that a breach of office or any other crime had been committed. For others, the court case you mentioned, which took place in Russia, was closed before the events, without having any contact with visa applications. And for the same reason, no other witness hearings could take place. [[János Stummer's phone is being recorded to the Attorney General.]] And as for your other question, in this case, the National Bureau of Investigation has conducted the investigation and has also found no evidence to suggest an indictment. If you'd like to know the details of the investigation, Congressman. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Time is up! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There will be no return answer!]] then you must go to the Minister of the Interior supervising the investigating authority on the basis of the rules of the new Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-192	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Attorney General. I would like to warn Mr János Stummer, who is a betterman, that film cannot be taken in the Chamber. Honourable Congressman, First warning, we'll continue at the next one. You don't seem to understand the words of time. [[For signal:]] I'm gonna react. Calm down. Calm down. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It grows together, which belongs together!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman, you have the right to rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, You didn't answer my question, meaningless explanation is just pathetic. You should know that you have not only political and moral responsibility, but also criminal responsibility. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're better at law! How clever this boy is!]] The Dialogue believes that in their activities the accomplice and the abuse of office have been carried out, and we have reported it. And my bad news, Mr Polt, is that these crimes will not expire until 2022. You guys at the D.A. are making a joke about justice. But this joke can only be laughed at by Viktor Orbán and the cynical Fidesz criminals. Mr. Polt, you're a bad clown. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You're the clown, man! Dr. Pál Völner: Moderate yourself! You're a dialogue criminal.]] And if there's one more shred of decency in you, you'll submit your resignation immediately. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: That's right! Wow! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2018-11-12-194	Congressman, please choose your terms. I didn't indicate this on a matter of substance. Attorney General, the right to rejoinder is yours. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think I owe Parliament's dignity that I do not reflect on the various remarks made by the Member. Of course, the D.A.'s office operates in accordance with laws and other laws, takes responsibility for every decision, and I take responsibility for it. These decisions are in line with the facts and the legislation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-196	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. Dear Parliament, [[From the seat of representatives of Bence Tordai, Dr. Péter Polt is moving towards recording in his mobile phone.]] Zoltán Fenyvesi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How do we help your lips hospital? It's an address. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Mr. President, stop it! It's parliament!]] Mr. Turdai! [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Take him out! Crazy! Shame on you. Anarchists! It's a nice new world. Bence Tordai approaches Dr. Péter Polt, who is about to leave the room, and holds a red clown nose in front of Dr. Péter Polt's face, while recording it with his phone.]] I'm gonna ask the room-proof service, please take care of it. In this case, the servants must make a move! You should have made a move. [[Dr. Péter Polt is leaving the meeting room with Benc of Tordai.]] [[17.40]] Dear Parliament, Zoltán Fenyvesi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How do we help your lips hospital? It's an address. Minister asked Mr. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, to respond to the urgent public task. [[It's constant noise.]] I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. I would ask my fellow Members to finish the special consultation. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Interviews from Fidesz: He left the meeting room. What about the Dialogue?]]
u2018-11-12-197	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The lips of Magyar Imre Hospital in my constituency have been caught in the crossfire of opposition representatives and Balliberal media in recent weeks. Many years ago, the hospital's elected director general, acting director general, management, conscientiously performing their profession, some tried to discredit him with false information and false news. However, little is said about the fact that a nearly HUF 5 billion development has recently been completed in the hospital, and it has now become one of the most modern rural hospitals in the country. There is a need for continuous improvement in the quality of patient care, that is what we say, and that is what all our activities are for. In order to do this, allow me to mention some improvements in the last year that have taken place in the hospital. A modern 16 slice CT scan, a new ultrasound suitable for both gynecological and genetic tests came in. The lab's in a good place, and there's a new equipped wing for emergency surgery and emergency room. Oncology majors started their work. A new echocardiograph has been installed, a new C-spine surgical X-ray has been acquired. The list is not exhaustive, so I would like to ask what additional tools and improvements the government has supported the Lip Hospital. It is important to note that instead of the qualified nurses leaving in August, intensive nurses came, in the hospital the number of doctors increased by 36 in one year, 27 doctors left, 63 doctors arrived. Of course, we have a lot of work ahead of us. We also face difficulties every day, but the goals to be achieved are always focused on respect and willingness to help a sick person. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-12-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to quote from a press release about your lips hospital: the news broadcasts have exceeded the threshold that would have been appropriate for us to look at these things in its reality and the various rumors about the hospital. As a result, I am pleased and happy to say that the lips hospital can continue to function smoothly, without any problems or problems. I'm not saying this, it's not the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, it's Imre László DK who stood in front of his lips and said what any other pro-government representative could have said. We are pleased that there are such lucidum intervals, such moments of honesty in the life of the opposition, and thank you for being honest with this question, and for expressing your sincere opinion as an ex-hospital director and doctor. We are pleased that now, who saw local relations locally, he saw that his lips were indeed noticeable improvements in the hospital, and for a good part of which I would like to thank Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, who had a lion's share in helping the hospital. We can say that since 2012, the hospital has received HUF 2.3 billion in maintenance support as a surplus. The 2012 annual budget was HUF 1.9 billion, the HUF 3.5 billion last year. This means that the annual NEAK funding of the hospital increased by HUF 1.6 billion, with 82 percent more money being spent today than the hospital managed in 2012. This also increased patients' satisfaction with the operation of the hospital by 7%. The positive data you mentioned are encouraging, for example, the growing number of people, but also the fact that the hospital was able to spend 137 million forints from central development resources on further training of the workers there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-200	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-11-12-201	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply, which I accept, because the Lips Hospital has grown over the past year with many new tools, procurement and instruments, and the nearly HUF 5 billion development has made it one of the state-of-the-art hospitals in the country. This may have hurt the opposition representatives and the Balliberal media, who tried to discredit the hospital with false news, rumors, and lies. I congratulate the hospital's new director-general for replacing the doctors and nurses who left the hospital, since today there are 36 more doctors working than a year ago in the hospital. It has now come to light that the desire of opposition representatives who have collapsed and experienced an emergency has failed. Thank you for the government's help, because healing can only be done with skilled professionals and modern tools, and the work of health workers is always proven by the lives saved and the healing of patients. So I'm asking everyone to take the side of the patients, be involved in improving the health of their lips, and not in raising the rumors. We're happy with all the help and well-meaning revelations and thank you, but anyone who can't help you shouldn't hurt you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-12-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me mention just a few points from the HUF 5 billion additional development source: creating the conditions for emergency child care, a one-gate access system, the complete renovation of an infectious class, the introduction of a video-endoscopic system in the lung care unit, new developments, digital mammograph and the number of workers mentioned by you. In addition to the 82 percent increase in funding I have mentioned, it is important that there has been a 44 percent increase in wages, which can be used by nurses working there, doctors working there, and indeed we are faced with a case where some opposition politicians, opposition media, do not respect the superhuman work of nurses working there, nor the dedication of doctors working there, nor the fact that the hospital is actually managing from an additional source, nor that a trust relationship between healers, nurses and patients is necessary for healing. What you have said, developments and this increasing funding support the opposite of everything. [[Intercoms from Jobbik, including Lajos Rig: his debt is HUF 438 million.]] As much as the betterman's congressman yells, it's not going to improve the hospital's situation. Everyone, please let the doctors and nurses work under quiet conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Congressman Bence Tordai has unfortunately left the Chamber. [[Interview from Fidesz: I don't miss it.]] So I can't tell you in person here. At Mr Speaker's side, I will also initiate an investigation into his actions before the House Committee, because not only is it an illustration, but the conduct that he has done here has grossly violated the authority of the House. So I will inform Mr Speaker in writing and take the necessary measures. [[Noise.]] This is against the interests of all of us, and this House's authority is severely destroyed. We can't afford this style now or later. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? It's an address. Minister Sándor Farkas appointed Minister of State, Deputy Minister, as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman. [[17.50]]
u2018-11-12-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It has already been said here that the government has held an unprecedented layoffs or, if you will, a massacre at the Secretary of State for the Environment of the Agricultural Ministry. We would like to know the details about this, since the size of the 44 percent downsizing that has occurred according to the news and in the environmental department is quite unprecedented. It is as if within the Agricultural Ministry, as we have seen in the previous years, the area that has been at the end of the last eight years, or perhaps it is already beyond that border, as we can talk more and less about environmental protection and nature protection in Hungary. Just now, Deputy Prime Minister, you answered a previous immediate question only in general terms, and you said that all is well with the resignations, since the notification through the customer gate is in line with the laws in force. We would not think that these redundancies would be okay, since professionals with decades of experience have been sent to work every day to ensure that decisions, documents that have been removed from the State Secretariat, are indeed professionally justified in the individual cases in which they have acted every day. These people will be tried and I do not know what to transform into through various programmes, but this does not improve the environmental sector. We are curious whether the figures that have been said here are real, and if so, how will the State Secretariat then carry out its professional tasks. That is why we are worried in the second place; primarily about the people who have been fired, but also about the situation in the sector and the policy of the profession. We are also wondering if further cuts will follow. It is reported that national parks will be merged as planned by the government. You could say something about that, Mr. Secretary. What do they even think is the point of talking about environmental protection or nature protection in Hungary? Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-207	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, in recent days, as in all other ministries, there have been certain cuts in staff in the Agricultural Ministry on the basis of the principle of bureaucracy reduction. In this connection, I would like to reassure the Member that, on the basis of this morning's meeting with the heads of the ministry, the Secretary of State responsible for environmental protection has reassured us all, and I believe personally that they can continue to do their job and work at an appropriate professional level. The Ministry of Agriculture, as I mentioned earlier, as all other ministries, of course implement the government bureaucracy reduction programme. Our goal is to ensure that only as many people are employed in the central administration as are absolutely needed, and with the planned increase in wages, the financial appreciation of our government officials will be improved. The number of statuses in the Ministry is recorded in a government decree, a government decision; I'm not going to bring it up now, if you're curious, I can tell you. On average, 9-10 percent of the status was vacant, so in practice, both for the ministry and for the background institutions, half of the status to be abolished will be laid off from public administration. The early location of those involved in the reduction of government numbers, as the Minister has just mentioned, is also supported by the Career Bridge programme. The Ministry will be able to carry out all its tasks in the future, of course also the natural and environmental tasks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-208	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-209	Thank you very much. I'm glad the Secretary of State assured you that your work will remain and that some of you will remain in the Ministry. What I don't think is that if the remaining ones were to make some kind of wage increase that was long overdue, it would replace the nearly 60 people, 56 people, who would be sent away from the State Secretariat, as this would mean a 44-percent downsizing. Either that means that 44 percent of people have never done any real work before, and that's why they won't miss it, or that means that you can do the same job by 44 percent, almost half the current number, because obviously you won't be doing it, but the remaining people. This is completely unacceptable to us, as it puts the functioning of the environmental and nature protection sectors to the limit of end-of-life. And even with regard to national parks, I would also like you to answer, Mr Secretary of State, whether there is a plan for further redundancies or for merging national parks. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-210	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Our job is a part-time job, if that's how I look at it. So it's not because of us that the colleagues are working, it's because of the cause, the whole agriculture. I'd like to offer you a clarification. You guys, I'm sorry for the expression, you might be mixing 44 percent with 44 percent. I'd like to make it clear to you that 22 people have been reduced in the State Secretariat. [[Dr. Lajos Kepli: We've heard more.]] I'd like you to look into it. So that's what this question is about. The other is that there will be no change in the future of national parks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-212	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: - How does the agricultural risk management system perform? It's an address. Minister Sándor Farkas appointed Deputy Minister for his response to the urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-12-213	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-11-12-214	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Our climate is very volatile, and due to climate change, the probability of extreme weather events is increasing in our country, which results in significant fluctuations in yields in agriculture. Over the last decades, the number of years of extreme weather has increased, which have caused a loss of several hundred billion dollars to domestic producers. At the same time, prices for agricultural products, production costs and exchange rates are also highly volatile, which further increases the risks of crop production and livestock production. Agricultural production is the economic sector most exposed to the various natural and market risks, so the management of risks at producer and Community level is of great importance. The basic damage covered by the agricultural compensation scheme is caused by frosts, drought, agricultural flooding, inland water, rain, storm and hail. It is important to emphasise that the agricultural compensation scheme, agricultural insurance premiums and the national ice prevention system work in harmony with each other in our country. These are the main pillars of the Hungarian risk management toolkit, complemented by individual producer risk prevention sources in the rural development programme. Dear Secretary of State, Addressing and preventing the risks of agriculture in Hungary has been increasingly highlighted in recent years. It is also very important for the future of the sector and for the safety of people living in agriculture that the agricultural risk management system is constantly evolving. On the basis of the positive trends in recent years, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the operation of the agricultural risk management system is developing this year and what development opportunities the government sees in the system. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-217	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In view of the extreme weather phenomena of the past period, the agricultural administration places great emphasis on reducing the risk of farmers. The two-pillar agricultural risk management system introduced in Hungary from 2012 has opened a new chapter in the management of agricultural damage caused by weather phenomena, which was complemented by the third pillar in 2018 and the prevention of ice damage. Under the first pillar, HUF 26 billion may be available at the beginning of next year to deal with the damage in 2018, which will cover the needs for compensation. The system is continuously developed along the producer's needs, the claim for compensation and the claim for compensation has become electronic, the range of producers and the damage covered by the scheme has been extended, the way in which the compensation is calculated has also become more favourable for the victims. In the case of agricultural insurance premiums, which constitute the second pillar of risk management, the premiums for support schemes increase year after year, last year they exceeded HUF 10 billion, and this year the amount available for premium support is HUF 5 billion. Today, the vast majority of agricultural plant insurance goes to producers in a state-supported form. [[18.00]] The new national ice prevention system, the third pillar of risk management, has started operating since May 2018, and has already saved farmers from significant damage in the first year of intense thunderstorms. This is illustrated by the decrease in the area declared for hail damage by nearly 50,000 hectares in 2018 compared to the damage reports of the last year. The system is completely free, besides producers, it protects the public, the economic players and the public in general. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-218	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is important to point out that this risk management system is almost unprecedented in the European Union. It is very important, and its stability is due to the fact that this system is on several feet, which help each other and strengthen each other. I think, of course, that does not mean that we can sit back, because we are facing new challenges. We need to further develop this risk management system in order to protect producers, farmers and families living in agriculture as effectively and effectively as possible and as widely as possible. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-221	Dear fellow Member, I think that at a more recent time than today, either on 12 November or in the last weeks, in the months that agriculture has experienced, if we look through the country, we see a cloud of dust. And here we could also refer to the question of pollution, how serious problems we cause ourselves to cultivate soils, what dust clouds and how much we cover the Carpathian Basin. This effect has not been caused by anything other than the fact that virtually a considerable amount of precipitation has not occurred in a significant part of the country in recent months. Therefore, it is expected that there will be a serious challenge in the compensation fund for the following year, how we will be able to enforce the drought damage in the autumn, which has been completely unusual in the Hungarian agriculture. I'm sure we'll need more coordination in this. But that should be taken into account in the next year's credit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-222	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:02 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will now continue our work with the negotiation of a series of applications for inclusion. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue Group proposed that the Parliament decide on the abolition of the Lex CEU in order to restore democracy. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[Dr. Tamás Mellar's microphone isn't working.]]
u2018-11-12-224	Congressman, your microphone isn't working. Be kind enough to check that the card may have moved. [[It's happening. Dr. Tamás Mellar: I used it once today. A hand microphone shall be placed in front of the representative.]]
u2018-11-12-225	Yeah, it's working now. It's okay to take the mike.
u2018-11-12-226	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. In order to restore democracy, we have tabled a bill on the abolition of lex CEU. Therefore, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education will be repealed. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. Law 9 and Article 9 of the 2011 Act. § 2a, 2b and 76 § 1a and Article 115 Paragraph 7 of this Article. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Article 76 Instead of paragraph 1 of the Article, we propose the following text:. A foreign higher education institution may carry out a course granting a diploma in the territory of Hungary if it is a state-recognized higher education institution in its country of origin, and the training it intends to pursue in the territory of Hungary and the diploma issued for that purpose corresponds to a training, diploma giving a state-acclaimed degree of higher education, and is authorised to operate by the Education Office. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, that's the point of the proposal. In the explanatory statement, I would like to suggest the following to your attention. First of all, that the Act on lex CEU should be repealed, because this violates the freedom of teaching and the principle of autonomy of higher education institutions for centuries, and also interferes with the requirements of legal certainty. In August, the Venice Commission already started to examine lex CEU and issued a resolution on this. An important element of this resolution is that out of the 24 foreign universities, only the CEU is affected. That is why it is justified to talk about lex CEU. In addition, the Venice Commission has identified three other very important points. He called on the Hungarian Government not to impose an international agreement with the country of origin, to provide university education at the headquarters and to abolish unjustified rules on the use of names. Similarly, this law has been examined by the European Commission and the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings in this regard. According to news published on 4 October, it entered the second phase of the infringement procedure, so it gave the Hungarian government two weeks to reply. Well, these elements certainly show that it is particularly harmful for Hungary to maintain this law. Our basic goal would be to get rid of it, not to carry such a burden. In addition, I think that the question should also be asked why it is good for Hungary that CEU will move from here. Obviously, as a result, the number of students will decrease, including the number of workers, especially those who are international teachers will leave this country. As a result, GDP could be reduced. And let us not believe, by the way, that we will receive more EU funds as a result. Although the Minister of State, Rétvári, who just passed away, was talking about the fact that Corvinus University has received much less EU funding in recent years than the CEU. The only thing he forgot to say was that it wasn't a grant from a person's right, it was a tender money, and obviously CEU received more funding because it was able to obtain it because it obviously submitted better programs. Therefore, despite the persecution of CEU, the competitiveness of Hungarian universities in itself will not be better or even more likely to be worse, since they cannot count on the impact on cooperation that would otherwise have on the functioning of this university. These would therefore be the aspects on the basis of which we consider the adoption of this law to be justified and justified in any event. I would ask the fellow Members to support the further path of this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2018-11-12-227	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. It is now possible to make two-minute contributions by groups of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman.
u2018-11-12-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, God sees my soul, I would very much like to argue as an ex-university leader who has been one of the specialties of accreditation and accreditation of international training for nine years, about what is happening around the CEU. But that's not what this debate has been about for a long, long time. I think that the position of the largest opposition party in this matter, Jobbik, as a national party, is very clear. [[18.10]] After all, in our election programme, yes, I repeat that we have played such a prominent role in the modernisation of Hungarian higher education. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]] I think that the signs and anti-Knowledge and the anti-intellectual signs that the governing parties have been sending to the Hungarian society and to the Hungarian university and research world for a long time now make it clear that in the image of Corvinus, the anti-CEU is making clear that Fidesz does not have a problem with the spirituality of the CEU and does not have a problem with the spirituality of George Soros giving the first scholarship to the real owner of the property under the name of Lőrinc Mészáros, but is interested in the fact that CEU is not theirs, that it is not possible to raise a servant from Hungarians and international students who go to CEU. After all, these pressures on Hungarian universities and Hungarian researchers are over here. So this is not a political matter. We, Jobbik, are in favour of freedom of knowledge and debate, academic freedom and academic autonomy. That is why we will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-12-229	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-12-230	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member said that this is not a political matter. [[Lajos Korózs: It is!]] I don't agree with that. According to the Democratic Coalition, this is only a political matter. This case and the entire bill submitted is only about the government and the government side being unable to tolerate anything independent of it, which is free spirited, where they raise critical intellectuals, where the values of open society are accepted, where they honestly express their views on society, which they cannot control, control, and harness, as they do with a significant part of Hungarian higher education, Chancellors and other means. That is why we support this bill. We think this should be here before the National Assembly. Let's discuss it. It's been a year. During this one year, it has been found that there is no professional consideration, no professional consideration, any university from any country can be an accredited higher education institution in Hungary. We have seen wonderful examples of this, here we conclude international treaties in the Parliament with such states and with such content in order to comply with these formal criteria. At the same time, CEU, which, aside from all its pride, has increased these otherwise ridiculous conditions for CEU, refuses to enter into an international agreement with the State of New York in the CEU case. One goal is to drive away the CEU. It's not only unworthy, it's bad for the country. We therefore do not support this, but we support the debate on the legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-231	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP, to the following comment.
u2018-11-12-232	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I would like to ask many of the government's present members, who are also involved in the work of the People's Representative at this late hour, which point they might have had when they suddenly had a double diploma issue. When Ferenc Kumin finished his training there when the government spokesperson may have finished his studies in post-doctoral training, or when Zoltán Illés, who teaches at CEU, gave me these two degrees that I received at that university? So to this day, we still don't know what the moment was when they realized that the nation's unity was in danger of being awarded two degrees by a university, as is the case in many places. The fact is that we support this bill because the whole CEU case is all about Fidesz collectively experiencing with ten million Hungarian citizens the problem of psychodrama caused by its former financier, about the fact that, as the creator, they can't do anything about George Soros, so they post a poster for the country, they drive everything away, and, as in psychoanalysis, they say his name in all things in such a complex way. The fact is that if they are very interested in accreditation abuse, which is a real thing in Hungarian higher education that is known by colleagues who are more educated than I am, then you can look at those doctoral schools in the countryside where they sometimes place habilitated professors and university teachers for the moment when accreditation is established and then take them out to meet the criterion. But I didn't see my fellow Member Nacsa, let's say, holding a press conference about this or pressing charges. There was no problem with that. There is a problem if there is a well-functioning institution in Hungary with a higher university ranking than the university of public gas, only because your former financer finances this university. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-233	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-12-234	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So on the day of the Parliament meeting on 4 April 2017, following a very heated debate, the Parliament adopted lex CEU and amended the Higher Education Act. From this poor, unfortunate university in Hungary, a specimen of the modern-day political lawsuit was a scapegoat, accused when members of the government even went there, as my fellow Member said, of a judgment already being proclaimed when the wording of this amendment was not even essentially written. The head of the MSZP parliamentary group turned to the President of the Republic on 4 April 2017, i.e. on the day of adoption, not to sign. In vain, shamelessly, in connection with such a bill which deeply mocks the rule of law, let alone did not do so, our President of the Republic did not even raise his voice. I'm very sad. I am sad in the name of Hungary as a whole, because this is a serious violation not only of the rule of law, but of our entire democracy. Many years in development, in the democratic development of this issue, this case, just like so many other Hungarys, is thrown back into progress. Today, this university fights for its own truth in an amazing effort, so that it cannot be wrongfully turned into a scapegoat. We would also like to contribute to this fight with this proposal. We express our solidarity with all university students, with all their teachers, because this is a serious violation of democracy and the entire academic sphere of the university. Therefore, on behalf of the MSZP faction, I can say that we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-235	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Mellár, if he wishes to respond in two minutes. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Yes.]] Looks like you did. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank my fellow opposition Members for their united support for this bill. This gives us some hope that perhaps everything is not lost, that we may be able to carry on the issue of education and freedom of teaching in such difficult circumstances. I would therefore like to ask you, seeing this unity on the opposition side, that the members of the government should also try to listen to their consciences and to think that it would be in the country's long-term interest to have a knowledge-based society as much as possible. And the only way to do that is to train the educated heads of men, as Széchenyi described it quite well. So we shouldn't destroy it, we should build it, we should build it. With this bill, we would like to turn this whole issue and this whole matter in this direction. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-237	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the motion from the DK Group that the Parliament should decide on the right to the right to freedom of study, education and research T/1607. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. First, in the five-minute time frame, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Gergely Arató. [[18.20]]
u2018-11-12-238	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In the previous debate, the fact that the proposal of our socialist fellow Members and fellow Members has not been discussed on the government side is basically supported. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] As such, they saw neither the bill nor what was said to be a controversial point. With this encouragement, I also recommend to you the bill tabled by the representatives of the Democratic Coalition, which differs from the bill discussed earlier, in so far as its intentions are the same, i.e. its intention to abolish the restriction of the freedom of education, to remove unilateral measures which, in a specific manner which you call the Soros University, limit the freedom to set up a university and the freedom to organise university education, causing such a very important fundamental right of the Union that, in essence, it has knocked out the safeguards for all EU bodies and political players, including the European People's Party, which we have just had the pleasure to listen to today, with what enthusiasm you support. I think Mr Manfred Weber is one of those who has been outraged at this, who has just been assured of their unbroken and collapsing support. At least listen to him, for God's sake, if you don't listen to any more moderate politicians. At least to your fellow right-wing politicians, believe that this solution is unacceptable, unfair, bad for the country and bad for Hungary's judgment! In our bill, we deliberately sought to establish the same legal situation as before your bill. We have written everything back, everything is regulated in detail, we have found very precise, very cool legal solutions to ensure that the situation is exactly the same as it was before 2017. Because we think, dear fellow Members, that if it was good for you for seven years, if it has not caused any problems for seven years, Hungarian higher education here today has not been hung by the small pebble reported by CEU [[Deterioration from the LMP benches.]] If all the examination of the Education Office has found it correct, if all accreditation tests have found the CEU in order, if they have not found any legal, professional or quality problems, then the simplest solution is to restore that situation; they know that what is not spoiled does not need to be fixed. In a situation where there was no problem, no tension in this matter that needs to be resolved, there is no need to legislate. If a law has already been passed, which has been found to be a violation of fundamental rights and, secondly, it is unacceptable in the European Union, it harms Hungarian higher education for the third time, it withdraws a fourth time significant amount of money from the Hungarian budget, which has been left by the CEU, and the fifth time it takes away the chances of Hungarian students going to a world-class university in Hungary and forcing them abroad, then this must be stopped. If there's a rule that doesn't work, there's no need to force it. You know, there's this dead horse: Now, that's what we need to get off of. I therefore ask you to put this proposal on the agenda. If you've thought about what hasn't occurred to you over the past two years, what is wrong with the CEU other than the Soros University, then tell me. I promise we'll be happy to help the government professionally. If you have not been able to find a suitable professional solution to find a good quality regulation here, then Professors and I will meet here and help you find a suitable European solution to protect the quality. The point is to allow the professional debate, to vote tomorrow to discuss this in substance in the House, unless, of course, it is just a dirty political law, because then this is not necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-11-12-239	Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute contributions by groups of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman of Jobbik.
u2018-11-12-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not wish to repeat the same thoughts that I have already expressed as Jobbik's position on the previous item. Perhaps I would like to quote one more thought from my fellow Member, István Szávay, from the debate of lex CEU, who already represented the same consistent position that we very much disagree with the image of the world that George Soros has expressed in his open society. While we could have an excellent professional debate on certain CEU disciplines, as we said in our previous speeches, but we believe that a Bolshevik method with a one-day shredded law is a way of creating efforts to end a university, because, as I explained, from the point of view of a normally functioning civil conservative party, we cannot be able to argue with our colleagues who might be thinking about the world in a different ideology. We are not afraid of you, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, of the professional and political debates that await us in a real democracy and not in the false Christian and pseudo-democratic world represented by Fidesz in this matter as well. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-12-241	Thank you, Congressman. I am now giving the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi in two minutes, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-12-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction agrees with DK's motion, even because it would restore the elements of previous legislation. Such as the fact that if the legal conditions are met, the Education Office is obliged to grant permission; it cannot consider, but if a university complies with the laws, it must be issued. Otherwise, this would comply with the requirement of legal certainty, which the Venice Commission has also called for in the Hungarian Government. For example, the operation of the university may be based on an international treaty, where authorisation is not required. But the MSZP faction also agrees that state-funded places can be so in such universities. This would help social mobilisation, which is essentially completely frozen in Hungary. I would like to tell you that the government has caused a very serious knowledge crisis in Hungary, and if for nothing else, but for the record, I would like to say that the CEU case clearly shows us, politicians, why it is a huge problem if there is no control before the current power. We support it because it is necessary to restore the freedom of teaching, the independence of Hungarian higher education institutions, the centuries-old principle of legal certainty, and I hope that we will also restore it. Thank you.
u2018-11-12-243	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP in two minutes.
u2018-11-12-244	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to point out that the government's communication about why the law required this law was a rather interesting mixture, because it also includes what many people have said that everything is okay here, that there is only equality, and that the CEU has to comply with the laws that it could not comply with because when it was missing that it did not comply, there was no law. It's an interesting life philosophy question, how it could have been followed, but let's not do that now. So that's one of the claims. And the other thing is, there's a problem with what they teach at that university. At that university, because unlike you, I studied there, but I'm not ashamed of teaching a lot of things. They also teach things that I personally disagree with, but they also teach things that are very important. Once again, I can say Zoltán Illés, whose waste management class is increasingly important every day than today's government performance. So what Zoltán Elijah taught me at the time, I did not know that it could handle a national crisis in itself. I'm sorry you can't use your incredible expertise in this new Orbán government. The thing is, there's really nothing here but that it's been made up for some reason, and then they can't justify it to themselves. So none of you know the answer I know that you're not going to stand up, because you're used to holding the press conference and then showing when you have to cut for Echo TV, when you've finished the questions, the thing is that it would be good to answer the question that Mr. Consul General Kumin left, looked at something, and the state education office in New York said that there was an educational activity. I understand that the Pesti guys want to bring the kulipinty back into the Hungarian language with a language renewal activity, so it's written 17 times, and I understand that you don't like it from a real estate investment point of view. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] We can talk about this in a different format, but the thing is, if the New York state education office told us that there's an activity going on, why don't they sign the contract? Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause from the benches of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-245	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, on behalf of DK. [[18.30]]
u2018-11-12-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, the Democratic Coalition supports any initiative that protects the survival of the CEU, as well as the academic freedom, the freedom and autonomy of scientific life, but here and now I think we have a very important point to make: this is about a serious personality disorder that torments the Prime Minister, nothing else, which is why this country, this Parliament, the CEU and everyone else suffers from this situation. Viktor Orbán has a personality disorder. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] There are three people who should be grateful all their life, and all three have been decided to try to get them off the face of the earth: one Imre Nagy, who spoke at his funeral in 89, now wants to take his statue away from Kossuth Square; the other Gábor Iványi, who married him to his wife and baptized his first two children, now withdraws his church status; and the third is George Soros, who carved a man from it, and... [[Interjection and publicity in the opposition's ranks.]] Well, it's kind of like that, poor thing, but it's not György Soros' fault. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] The problem here is personality disorder, he made a man of him, he financed his university studies, he helped him get into politics. So everything that happens to the CEU is nothing more than the result of Viktor Orbán's personality disordered behaviour and pulls the CEU with him, drags Hungary with him (Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.) Hungary is forced to bear the fact that scientific workshops in the European Union are desecrating Hungary because of this decision that the European Federation of University Centres is also desecrating Hungary, which is why we are forced to endure because Viktor Orbán is ill. But it's more CEU than CEUşescu, that's my opinion. [[Delightfulness and applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-11-12-247	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Mr Gergely Arató if he wishes to respond as rapporteur. [[On the sign of Gergely Harvesto:]] Looks like you did. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-248	I haven't woken up yet. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to reject and deny the Government side's arguments in this debate as to why they do not want to talk about this matter, but I hope that this only means that they are broken under the weight of arguments. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: No!]] and they have broken during the phenomenon that the opposition parties, which, as we can see in this debate, differ on a number of issues, are able to see that they have a national responsibility, they have a responsibility to this country, they have a responsibility to Budapest, they have a responsibility to Hungarian education, and they have a responsibility to Hungarian students, to Hungarian young people in particular. We would like to talk about this issue, we would like to see that if we could find a good solution, if CEU could operate in a regulated and predictable way in Hungary, and of course we would like to see other world-class universities with an international background giving high-quality education so that students do not flee Hungary and that knowledge does not escape, but that knowledge comes to Hungary and that students can stay home. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-12-249	Thank you. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The DK Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the establishment of the ad hoc committee for the eradication of the eviction and housing crisis H/1627. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely, on behalf of DK, as rapporteur.
u2018-11-12-250	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I didn't think myself when I presented the resolution proposal that it would take more than a month for Parliament to discuss this at its plenary session. For the first time, Fidesz representatives of the People's Welfare Committee took him off the agenda with the justification that they disagreed with this matter and that there would be no need to discuss it. The second time they didn't even come to the Welfare Committee, so we couldn't vote on it, which, I'll tell you, is unprecedented in the history of the People's Welfare Committee. For the third time, when the Fidesz MEPs came to the committee meeting and did not take this matter off the agenda, they actually said that, in fact, everything about housing in Hungary is fine, which is a small problem, a few thousand people are involved, but it is managed by the government. With the help of my fellow Members, we have already said this at the committee meeting, but I am telling you here that this is a lie. Today, the situation in Hungary is that there is an eviction and housing crisis. A large part of the Hungarian people are talking about hundreds of thousands, millions, or they have given up on whether they will ever have an independent apartment, or whether they have one, but they no longer pay their credit, and they are waiting to be evicted, or they spend decades working to keep the apartment from being taken away from their heads. We are simply living in such a country, in such impossible circumstances, millions, hundreds of thousands of people in this situation, but before I go into the number war that we have been going through on the committee, whether we are talking about a few tens of thousands of people now, as Fidesz claims, or a few hundreds of thousands of thousands, to the magnitude of millions, as we say, let me say, rather than talk about numbers, but about human fates, what this currency-crediting issue means in Hungary today. So, I have a friend, István Kaposnyák in Debrecen, served 25 years at the border guard, discharged as head of security at the Debrecen airport, borrowed currency with his wife, raised a child, paid their loans, but on 3 July 2010, they lost their currency payments, spent years fighting for their apartment, eight years, but this year they lost the house they worked for, and in the meantime their relationship was broken and divorced. At the moment, my friend István Kaposnyák lives in a sublet, and he still pays off the repayments of the house that was already in his name, since he still has his debt and lives apart from his wife, who also lives in another apartment with their child. A family is ruined, two adult people's lives are ruined, we have to start all over again, if we can start again at all, I hope that they will succeed, and we know what their child is going through, you can imagine how good it can be for him to grow up in Hungary after such a divorce. So, surrounded by such problems, a significant part of the Hungarian people are trying to live here, and we thought that in a case-by-case committee, where civilians and even banks could be gathered together, and we could discuss the matter of what we should do in order to change this situation, so I submitted this resolution proposal, and, frankly, we didn't mean to conduct a political witch hunt, or to discuss whose fault this is the current situation, who did what, which politicians didn't do, where it went wrong; not, but I thought, and we thought here in DK, that we should sit down, give ourselves time, talk about it, every party has suggestions, and we should do our job to make it better for the Hungarian people, the voters, and we shouldn't have to worry about whether they still have an apartment at the end of the month, or not, but how they can get from each other. I am pleased that this proposal for a resolution has finally come before the plenary, and we will vote on it tomorrow. I ask you to give your opinion, whether we should argue, if you need to, and tomorrow, to put aside what party you are from, and what credo is, but to think in tomorrow's vote about what the task is, why we are here in this Chamber: we are in this Chamber to make the Hungarian people better. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-12-251	Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute contributions by groups of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2018-11-12-252	Mr President, Dear House, It would be very strange if the Jobbik did not support this proposal. Of course, we support it, because history repeats itself: under the heading of Jobbik's Foreign Currency Loan Round Table, it has already brought to life in the previous cycle the form of meeting where the victims, civil rights defenders and parliamentaries were obviously invited by the representatives of the government, and the Bank Alliance has been invited to remain the same. The latter two groups have not, on one occasion, dared to pay tribute to these events, and so I am very curious about what the pro-governments will say in this debate, if they do not speak, it is all the more talkative. We must therefore say that there would be room for confrontation, because in 2001 this government allowed the spirit to escape from the bottle by means of its predecessor, and then the balliberal, very wrong practice that allowed these loans to increase, but since 2010 the last two Orbán Cabinets have been involved with the banking system, a pact with the EBRD, signed an agreement whereby the situation of Hungarian victims cannot be improved at the expense of the banks' budgets. [[18.40]] Meanwhile, the relevant commercial banks are luxurious in this situation, producing more than 600 billion in records, regional record gains. The banking sector special tax could be passed on to the citizens because the government allowed them to pass the transaction fee on to the citizens because the government left it, and instead of forinting at the rate of admission, this government put a market rate forint in the neck of the victims. In this way, a thousand billion-dollar amount of money was allowed to be stolen from the owners in a legal way. After that, a face would be the least I could do. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-253	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-12-254	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Of course, we will support this proposal, just as we supported it at the Committee on Welfare. I would also like to say here that, since the eviction moratorium, an average of 22 families have been evicted in Hungary today. So there are thousands of families and persons who have been evicted since the May moratorium. At the same time, it can be seen that all government attempts have failed in the last 7-8 years. Here's the program in Occasian. We've brought it here many times before the National Assembly. 80 apartments were built out in the wilderness. I would just like to note to the record that there is no mention of this in Ochán. It's out there somewhere, with Siberia in some border area, and it's completely inappropriate for people to live in these conditions. The National Asset Manager was also a failure, since 36,000 families were granted the right to remain as tenants, but they did not receive any more funding for the acquisition of new apartments by the state. Consequently, one family cannot be rescued plus one family, and the institution of self - failure was just as frustrating, since it was possible to count slowly on both hands how many families could be helped. We also said here that no one had a good draft of the legislation submitted, it was not good for financial institutions, it was not good for families, it was not good for municipal authorities, and I would just like to remind my fellow Members that there were two forms of support that helped families in distress, and that was housing support and debt management, and that was the end of it a few years ago. Thank you very much. Of course, we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-255	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, on behalf of KDNP.
u2018-11-12-256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We consider this pro-Gyurcsány proposal to be false, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families were in an hopeless situation under the administration of your group leader and boss Ferenc Gyurcsány. After entering your government, the family support system has been severely dismantled and the lives of families raising children have been made difficult. They did not pay any attention to the debt of families, and they did not receive any support. If it were up to you, I'd still be able to pay off the loose payments. The left-wing government was also the one that forced the Hungarians into borrowing foreign currency loans by significantly eliminating the home creation system. Between 2002 and 2010, the amount of retail foreign exchange loans increased by 140-fold. State-funded loans have been abolished and home-building tax incentives have been abolished. If it were up to the opposition, i.e. you, there would not be a home-building programme today either, because from the very first minute the family home-building discount is being attacked and it has not been voted out. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken a series of measures for families in distress since 2010. We created the exchange rate barrier, cleared the banks, forinted the foreign exchange loans, introduced the private institution, closed the era of pursuing foreign exchange loans, and launched the home creation program. As regards enforcement procedures, a number of measures have also been put in place which have a positive impact on debtors. I'm sure you know that we extended the eviction moratorium to a pro-government proposal last year, which previously covered the period from 1 December to 1 March, but after the amendment we tabled and adopted, it already lives for individuals from 15 November to 30 April. This period starts in three days. The government has already done a lot, and I would like to say that all human fate and problems matter to us, but I would ask that you and your party support further measures on this subject as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-257	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that today's traditional two-minute speech will not be possible all day, so let us leave that button quietly and, by the way, continue our work because it is a bit disturbing that everyone has checked in there. Then let's continue with a two-minute comment, because the house rules allow it not to be the period of the traditional two-minute comment. So I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, on behalf of the LMP.
u2018-11-12-258	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The LMP will support any attempt to find a solution that attempts to help our fellow citizens in need whose housing or existence is at risk. That's what we've been doing. For the many times, we have proposed the establishment of a rent-apartment programme at the hearing of the budget, or we are discussing a similar one during the next agenda, which includes the right to walk away. I think that what I wanted to talk about has been rewritten by my fellow Member Nacsa, because I understand what you are saying. But imagine, my fellow Member, how interested you are in families who can take the house over their heads tomorrow, whether the initiative is false or not? ! And now I don't want to examine the truth. I am simply trying to draw the attention of my fellow Member and the whole Fidesz faction to the mistake of not being able to give a political answer to the representative of the political community in front of me, but our task, our responsibility, we all who are sitting here, we have sworn to help our fellow citizens to give them a hand in the problems they are struggling with. And yes, I know exactly that my fellow Member Nacsa thinks that this is a solved problem. But unfortunately, if you look around, you go out of Parliament, and I know that you live in this country, I'm sure you have an uncounted acquaintance, a family member, who didn't have a solution, either the end-payment or the forinting, which I'll add: you did nothing but fix the payments that went away. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-259	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-12-260	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I very much appreciate the fact that Congressman Nacsa is taking part in this debate and that we can have a word, and precisely because I appreciate that, I would not start by rejecting, in a similar style, his partly incorrect and partly deliberate distorting claims. In any case, all I have to say is that you have been ruling for the eighth year, pointing back to 2010 is always a very weak argument in this situation. However, this is not what I think is important, and I do not want to talk about it, but I would like to say that I should like to capture the little ray of hope; the little ray of hope that the Member's comment meant in two respects. You say, Congressman, that every fate is important, every story is important, and we certainly agree on that. That's the kind of story that happens. If you go home to your constituency and ask your acquaintances, you will meet people who are still working on the burden of foreign exchange credit or who are still under threat of auction. So there's a problem that needs to be solved. On the other hand, Mr President, you also say that the government has further proposals. We hear this with excitement, but then here is the great opportunity, because our proposal does not offer more or says more than to create a framework; we create a case-by-case committee that investigates this problem and which seeks solutions. Honourable Congressman, If it is indeed our intention to help these people, if they do have good suggestions that they would like to make, then there is a great opportunity. Then don't take measures here as ultimatums, 24-hour laws, or even anything else, from alpha to omega, then make your suggestions there, evaluate the situation, and find good solutions. To do so, we need you to support tomorrow's series of articles and then the formation of the committee. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-12-261	Thank you. I ask the author if he wishes to comment on what has been said. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Székely. [[18.50]]
u2018-11-12-262	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I thank you, too, for the comments from Fidesz; despite their silence in the previous two cases, I consider that this matter may be taken a little more seriously, as it concerns a significant part of Hungary. I would just like to say that, as my colleague Gergely Arató here has just said, they are now in the ninth year of their government, Hungarian people do not really care who made the mistake or who didn't, they have every right to know what was going to happen, and it is now your responsibility and our responsibility. We did not propose, and we do not want to set up a committee to work on who is responsible and who is responsible. We want our proposals and even your proposals to come forward, to discuss them, to have legislative proposals, and to result in people getting better in this country in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term. Because right now, the thing is that people live from day to day, hearing amazing stories, families falling apart, husbands going abroad, wives staying here with children in Hungary, and they just don't know what's going to get under the Christmas tree, or if anything goes on, it's just gonna come out of credit. I know very well that there should be some serious decisions here and then to go through with it, but that's why this committee would run for a year and a half, I note that there would be no evictions during that year and a half, because this is part of the resolution proposal. I think that this would be good for you, and it would be good for the Hungarian people, and it would give us all time to make the decisions that we will eventually have to make. I very much hope that tomorrow will be a positive one, and that it will be voted in the end. In that hope, thank you very much for listening.
u2018-11-12-263	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/617 amendment of the laws necessary for the protection of foreign exchange taxpayers. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Csárdi, in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-12-264	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This proposal is practically the brother of the previous proposal. At the same time, I think that we should say again that hundreds of thousands of families are still in a position in today's Hungary, 2018 that their repayments before the forinting are unfairly and extremely burdensome for the family budget. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association thought in two steps to resolve the situation caused by the foreign exchange crisis. In the first step, at HUF 180, the debtor who had enough savings to take out the loan could repay his debt at the same time. The second step has already been very late in space and time and given its technique, I think it has misforinted foreign currency loans by fixing the exchange rate loss for the debtors' necks in the stolen instalments. As a result, a multitude of contracts have been terminated today, and a multitude of contracts have been terminated will result in hundreds of thousands of families losing the house at any moment, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. The four main elements of the bill can be summarised in such a way that, on the one hand, it provides for the transfer of the costs of the judicial expert by the State, since we know precisely that in an enforcement procedure, where appropriate in a court case, there are two parties against each other who have financial possibilities, no graphs that could be shown. We know very well that this kind of dominant position must be reduced. Going on: we can see precisely the excesses experienced during the implementations, and I could now make a very long list, but I think that they have all read the bill, and I think that once and for all, we must stop the abuse of its executives. In line with this, the third part is the complete exclusion of payment order procedures, which can result in nothing else in such a procedure but to speed up the procedure unduly and unjustly, practically handing the debtor's life, property, everything. The fourth element, which I think is one of the most important elements, which we call the right to walk away so that the shameful story that happened to tens of thousands of our fellow debtors could not occur in the case of a terminated loan contract, was that although the executive had taken the house, which would have served as collateral, although they had paid the repayments for many years, and although they tried to meet their payment obligations until the end of their options, many of them were still in a position to face a higher debt than they had taken. I think that we must end this practice once and for all, because this is nothing more than modern slavery, with respect. Because if I cannot pay my debt, even though it is all I have, and my debt will be inherited by my successors, then what is happening, honourable Members, is to open up the possibility of reintroducing a debt-proclaimed slavery in Hungary. I think that it should be possible because it is the bank's responsibility to determine how the collateral can be found, that the debtor, after losing the cover, can walk away and his debt will be cancelled. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-265	Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to debate within a two-minute timeframe for groups of Members. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2018-11-12-266	Mr President, Dear House, I am not only suggesting this motion because the Faramuc situation has arisen that I have already participated in a joint eviction event with Antal Csárdi and we have tried to prevent a thousand-point bleeding from violations, which are also seen by pro-government colleagues. Let's see what the pro-government people are putting their names on right now. Although the legislation has been amended since then, in the case of those who have just been evicted, their properties have been dumped at a fraction price, and I also have to tell you that a secondary market has been created, where in a large factory good friends and a very narrow caste acquire these properties at a fraction price. That's what you're assisting me with right now in this room when you don't want to touch this whole system. They may have strong interests in it, but I'm keeping my assumptions to myself. It is certainly impertinent that the property acquired by the blood and suffering of Hungarian people will, at a fraction price, be monopolized by a very high-end business circle; I do not want to continue to stick to this topic, everyone knows what we think about it. At the same time, it is also legalized by the pro-government colleagues that they are already trying to recover reclaims from Hungarians. We were also in a case where the legitimate beneficiaries of the property were to be thrown out of their property for the rest of their lives, and we also encountered cases where the excesses of their executives were clearly implemented along the lines of forgery and other crimes, and in many cases there was only one instrument left, the fact that these unfortunate people tried to protect their homes as far as possible by moving as large a crowd of civilians and activists as possible. [[19.00]] The lucky ones did it. But it's not a way, it's not a way. Thus, under organised circumstances, a mass of methods such as organised crime must be discarded in some way, and it would be a dog's duty for all pro-government representatives to participate at their level. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-267	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sándor Székely, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-12-268	Thank you for the floor. Of course, because, as Antal Csárdi said, this is practically a proposal that could be discussed, for example, within the framework of the ad hoc committee that we propose, where the boundaries are and what is acceptable. So, of course, we support this. We cannot go beyond what is going on in Hungary. It is amazing how banks and executive agencies virtually evict Hungarian people, Hungarian workers from their very hard-paid apartments and apartments that they can no longer pay for, even though they work a lot, as we know the Hungarians do. Hungarians work the most in Europe during working hours, but their wages do not follow this much work. And we also know that Hungarian wages are much smaller than in the neighbouring countries, and that there is much less work to be done in the neighbouring countries in order to pay a rent. This is why Hungary has to pay more, and so it is no coincidence that people are simply leaving Hungary. We support any proposal that deals with solving this problem for Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-269	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP.
u2018-11-12-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the issue of foreign exchange legitimists, its problem is here again and again in some form on the Parliament's table, whether in the form of an immediate question or in the form of a new bill, shows that this problem, this issue, is not resolved at all. Although we know that you are very fond of communicating that the issue of foreign exchange lenders has been solved, it was solved when foreign exchange loans were forinted at the market rate. But we know that the Hungarian National Bank was the only one who actually benefited from the forinting, and in fact you made a bed with the fact that the Hungarian National Bank created its foundations, and the foundations can support your lunar yard in different ways. You are completely insensitive to people's problems, because since the moratorium expired in April, there have been more than 2000 evictions. You do not care at all that winter is here, and those who may be affected by it may be families with small children, go out on the street, but the poor cannot go out on the street because they will become homeless, and then they will be chased away from there as well. I believe that, at least until a law is passed that would actually provide a solution to the problem, yes, the moratorium must be extended. And I don't really want to tell you why the right to walk is important anymore. Yes, there are many who have recorded, for example, five million forints and have to pay back multiple amounts. It's really nothing but debt slavery. I would also like to ask my fellow Members and members of the parliamentary majority to support our bill.
u2018-11-12-271	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-12-272	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! Dear Investors, fellow Members of the LMP. Let's be clear. We're talking about an eviction ban and housing crisis and the protection of foreign exchange taxpayers, and I don't even know what the Virgin Mary is we're making up to get a agenda here. It is about that and let us be clear: before Viktor Orbán came to government, he made a pact with the banks, the bankers helped Viktor Orbán get into power and keep him in power, and Viktor Orbán lets the bankers loot the Hungarian people. That's what I'm talking about. And then we find all sorts of tricks to talk about how to save them. Well, don't you have to save them, you have to take the money from them! The Hungarian banking sector made a HUF 700 billion profit last year. 700 billion! I'm reading now: OTP made a clear profit of HUF 200 billion in the first 8 months. Who? Well, these poor people who've been looted. Well, that's not normal. Don't explain to me that a family hires 10 million forints, because they want a home for themselves, they pay for 7-8-9 years, then the bank comes with their paperwork, and they say they're still 17! While his repayments increased year after year, they died of being unable to pay the increased repayments! That's what we should be talking about, fellow Members. We have to take the money from the banks. I'm done. We will support the proposal, however.
u2018-11-12-273	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Congressman Antal Csárdi if he wishes to comment on what has been said. I can tell you can. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-274	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would very much have liked to have at least gotten into a debate with my fellow pro-government Members. I think it is very important, and I am not on the same platform as my colleague Korózs, I am sure of one thing, and I also know that we fully agree on this: a solution must be found. Believe me, my honourable fellow Member, believe me, my fellow Members, that the victims whose housing, whose life today is on the edge, do not give a damn what they have done, what they have not done so far, what they could have done. By the way, I would like to add that it has already been said in the debate on the subject of the previous bill that there is virtually no disproved and disproved public responsibility here. And it doesn't matter who the Prime Minister was on this issue, in this context, because responsibility goes on, and I think that it is therefore our duty here in the Hungarian legislature to find a solution to the problems of these people. I note quietly, and I would like to draw the attention, first and foremost, to the fact that, since 20 September, there has been a new time calculation on foreign exchange loans. Because on 20 September the European Court of Justice took a forward-looking decision describing how all foreign exchange credit contracts should have looked. And if my fellow Members have seen a foreign exchange loan agreement, they know exactly that there was no contract in this country that complied with the conditions set out in the grounds of the European Court of Justice. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-275	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/1158 amendment of individual laws to improve the situation of pensioners. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Krisztina Hohn, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2018-11-12-276	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I tried to submit a bill for an increase in the current minimum old-age pension, which, unfortunately, was rejected by the committee. Why is it important to increase the minimum old-age pension? As you know, this amount has not increased since 2008, since then it has been HUF 28 500. It did not even follow inflation, although it was always given in the previous years. So the inflation increase has always been on top of it, unfortunately this has not happened in the last ten years. What's the real minimum pension? Originally created so that no one could get a full pension less than 28 500 HUF. This could be the bottom. It is a fact that this amount is no longer of such importance in the context of pension determination, but it sets the lower limit. Recently, on a pro-government radio, I heard the figures in non-ballib press about how many people take a pension of around HUF 30,000, and the postman brings them that much in a month. That was a shockingly high number. [[19.10]] I think that the most important thing to increase this retirement pension minimum would be to improve the situation of people in extreme poverty. It is that, on the one hand, you should not be a pensioner who receives HUF 28 500 or HUF 30,000 a month, and the other is that this minimum pension is the basis for many social benefits. Some of the combinations are those that define different conditions, conditions for different benefits, such as the provision of active-age benefits, and, in particular, the allowance to replace the many jobs mentioned and the health benefit. Yes, I know that the aim of the low level of support to replace employment was to put people on the labour market, as well as in public employment. It's okay. However, we do not think of those unfortunate people who are suffering from an accident or some kind of illness, and because of this, let us say, they have already lived in public work in earlier years, or their employment has not been continuous, or there has not been a sufficient amount of years to get a decent pension. They receive HUF 27,000 a month, which depends on the current retirement pension minimum and the unfortunately about 90 percent of it. You can't make a living out of 27,000 forints, 54,000 for public workers in general, but out of 27,000 forints, a sick person can make a living, but not even a lot. If there is no family helper in the local government who can assess the situation of this man and who knows that he is sick and tries to help in some way, then he cannot heat or eat. You can't buy food from 27,000 forints, you can't feed yourself to one person in a month. I've seen many such examples. To mention only one thing, we had a lung cancer worker who fell out of public employment because of his illness and spent the remaining three months of 27 thousand forints. We tried to give him food every day, but a municipality can't afford to give someone 30 thousand forints a month's aid, it's not even legal. So that can't be the solution. And the other is that public health care depends on it. The conditions for entitlement to a regular child protection discount also include a certain percentage of the minimum pension. The free children's meals, and the rest, may also have their functions, the provision of guardians in cash, the children, the children, the maternity allowance, are also determined by the law at the various percentages of the minimum pension. I need to see it, and yes, I've been told that then there will be an awful lot of people who will be able to benefit from various social benefits. That's not true. If we think of municipal aid, then the municipalities have the right to change the multipliers according to the amount. But everyone realizes that you can't make a living from 22 800, 27 thousand, or 28 500 for a week. Some people spend a day or half a day, some people make that in a minute, or they make that in a second. That is why we would like to propose, and we will do so several times, to think about raising this amount, because this has not changed for ten years, and even if we raise inflation only on it, it is much better than it is. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-277	Thank you. It is now possible to make two-minute contributions by groups of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, from Jobbik.
u2018-11-12-278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft legislation tabled by our fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, is justified and is fully in line with the principles of fair and fair distribution. It is a very serious problem in Hungary not only that many of our countrymen live as pensioners with very low incomes, but the extremes of pensions are serious problems, i.e. that very many people live on very small pensions, and that more and more people live on sums that are not simply used to sustain life, but also create a wealth of accumulation. Pension is a 90-year-old institution. In the United States, where it was first introduced, it was intended to avoid old age hunger. At that time, two years above life expectancy was set at the time when it could be granted. Of course, no one paid for a pension contribution at that time, but the state sensed that the elderly often die of hunger and not of other diseases. But since 1936 there have been pension insurance and pension contributions. In this way, all those who receive a pension will receive not only the right but also the size of their contributions when they are active. The government pays HUF 3100 billion a year for pensions. Although 2000 billion are paid by active workers in the form of pension contributions, let us not forget that pensioners have an average pension of 130 500 forints. A significant part of this is already paid into the budget in the form of VAT in a given month. The VAT payments of pensioners with their purchases are HUF 1100 billion a year, which means that the pension fund is not deficit-free. Pensions are produced by active people, and pensioners themselves produce their purchases. I would very much ask all my fellow Members to support this proposal, or, if they do not know, let the seven parties meet and figure out how to achieve the objective which this law was intended to achieve. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-279	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-12-280	Mr President, Dear House, This proposal and the need to negotiate it are certainly justified. At the same time, I must point out that this is actually just the tip of the iceberg, because, on the one hand, the pension system has such basic problems, where the smallest pension is not, of course, the biggest problem apologies for this strange sentence, because not only the lowest pensioners are in an unworthy situation, but hundreds of thousands of pensioners have low pensions. Moreover, these pensions do not actually preserve their value, as opposed to government vows, because the consumption that pensioners consume has completely different inflation figures than the large inflation figures that you work on. These people are in an increasingly difficult situation, their pensions are gradually falling apart, and then we are not even talking about how pensions have been broken down in recent years compared to wages. There is an increase in the gap between the pensions of former retired workers and the wages of workers. On the other hand, this is only a symptomatic, surface treatment of social benefits, since you have destroyed the entire social care system, pushed the majority of the tasks into the municipalities, and do not provide resources. I am trying to put it culturally, let's just say that they are painting a dream world here, where happy public workers are running around and preparing for the labour market, while we know that public work is, in the vast majority of cases, a dead end that does not allow decent living or a return to the labour market. We are saying, therefore, that much more is needed, a fundamental pension reform and fundamental social reform, the reconstruction of the social system, the reconstruction of the social system on a new basis in many respects, but this measure would be an important first step proposed by the Member, which is why we support a series of subjects and hope that more can be achieved in the debate on the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-281	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP.
u2018-11-12-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I have once referred to the Fundamental Law here in Parliament, namely the sentence that says that we believe that human dignity is the basis for human existence. Let's think about this sentence. To feel the dignity of a human being, it is certain that it is a prerequisite for a decent living. On the other hand, when we see the retirement society, which is growing and ageing in society, we see that many of the elderly retirees are not getting that part of it. [[19.20]] So the 600,000 people who have a pension or pension of less than 100,000 forints must not be able to make a decent living. There's a lot of old people on their own, the overhead, I don't want to count the prices, they're rising. Anyone who goes to the market knows how dynamic food prices are growing, and we can expect further significant growth, because we know that as a result of drought, for example, the potato crop will be half this year. This bill aims to improve the situation of those with the lowest pensions. I myself have repeatedly tabled the bill to raise minimum pensions to at least 50,000 forints, but you have never taken this seriously and have always been swept off the table. Although it may have been a sign that something might happen six months ago, then the Prime Minister said that he would examine this question on an immediate question, but he had already swept it off the table for my last question. [[Gergely Arató: The elections are yet to come.]] Yes, indeed, a little further away are the elections to the European Parliament and the municipal elections. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you.
u2018-11-12-283	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-12-284	We're prisoners of a kind of old stoki, because we use words and we put words here that don't cover what we're talking about in a long time. We are still talking about a pension system, but it is not a system for a long time, we are still talking about a social care system, even though there is no system in it, but there are only ad hoc measures. That's what this is all about. Although it is commendable that at least the pro-government media has subpoenaed me a few times. Dear friends, it is about what we call a pension system, there are terrible injustices in it, all of which have come to the fore as a result of the actions of the Orbán government. Today, 20 thousand people in Hungary have fewer pensions than 30 thousand forints, I think it is a shame to say it. The fact that 590 thousand people have fewer pensions in Hungary today than 100 thousand forints, the fact that one third of pensioners have fewer pensions than one person's pension is a shame to say it. And it is also a shame that more than two thirds of pensioners do not get the average, which, consequently, highlights the injustice I mentioned earlier, because these distorted injustices arose as a result of the politics of Orbán. The fact that you lie about maintaining the purchasing value of pensions sends the following message to a pensioner under 100 thousand forints: you had to live on miserablely few pensions last year, because that is what Viktor Orbán decided. This means that next year you will live as miserablely low on money as you did before last year, because your money will only increase by the amount of money you have, namely, your pension, as much as the amount of money that's going down. From this point on, this person will remain in this position for the rest of his life if Hungary uses this inflation-following pension raising technique. And from now on, we can also look at the income of the richest, those with a million-dollar pension. That's what we should be talking about here. We will, of course, support the motion, but I do see that the pro-government representatives are not moving their ears to this. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-285	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to comment on what has been said. [[On the mark of Krisztina Hohn:]] Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn indicates that she is. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-12-286	Thank you very much for the floor. It is also very important to say that there are several kinds of aid, that the municipalities can also provide aid, but not new aids, but that there is enough money to be given to everyone so that they do not need charity and aid. I don't think you should give a pension premium, though it's very good, and you'll get it; tomorrow the paper will be full that I said that we don't need a pension premium, so let's give it, but why we can't give so many pensions so that everyone can live properly. It's terrible that there really are people whose pension doesn't reach the minimum wage. Why not? Well, if by minimum wage we say that's it, then why don't we just say that for the least pension, that's it? I think that we are not responsible enough if we do not think of our fallen fellow humans, those living in extreme poverty. Yes, we have a dog's duty to take care of them. We can't leave them on the side of the road. There are people who, if they break down and have no family, simply don't have the money to be treated in some kind of chronic ward. Or there are hardly any places in social homes, because for 28 and 27,000 forints, no one wants to care for them. They're at home alone with a minimum of money, maybe they can pay for the lights, but maybe there's no water, no electricity. There's a lot of places where people burn their shoes and their clothes because there's no fire money. It's a good thing it's such a good winter this year that we haven't had to heat as much as usual, because there's no minus degrees. But the fact that someone has to make a living of 30,000 forints is terrible. I think it's untenable, so I'm asking you to at least think about both the pro-government Members and the members of the government that you have to figure out something for these people, because it can't go on like this. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-287	Thank you, Congresswoman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on accessibility of public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications follows a debate. The government referral is T/2937. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Ákos Kara, if he wishes to speak. [[On the sign of Ákos Kara:]] It says yes. I'll tell you that you have a total of ten minutes with the reciprocation. It's like your card's not insane, Mr. Secretary. Here.
u2018-11-12-288	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Only briefly, so that there is a way and opportunity to react if necessary. In essence, by adopting a new law on the accessibility of public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications, we are taking another step towards creating an inclusive digital society. The legislative proposal strengthens the objective of ensuring that everyone in Hungary has equal access to public services and information provided by the State on the Internet. All of you, fellow Members, who have been watching or reading, know the bill that it is about the application of an EU directive, and they also know that there is time for a thorough reflection, discussion of the application of detailed rules, and therefore for the implementation and creation of good practices. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill, as many have said during the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-11-12-289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-11-12-290	Mr President, Dear House, In addition to the arguments expressed in the general debate, I would like to share a sense of absence with the honourable Secretary of State, taking advantage of the fact that he is a member of the Government in the Chamber. I would like to say that, with regard to Eurostat and MNB's competitiveness report, we refer mainly to the 2017 edition, that the time spent on corporate taxation in Hungary is not only rather high and stagnant, which is being done for 277 hours/year at the moment, but is the result of a number of bureaucratic processes. On the other hand, in several countries of the Visegrád region, this trend has been substantially declining since 2009. This leads to the conclusion that, especially for the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector, additional methods should be developed, extra incentives to which competitive disadvantages can be overcome, and their slowly increasing but still low productivity can be further increased. Here, I would like to point out to the Secretary of State the proposal for a decision before the Committee on Enterprise Development, in which we have laid down specifically the elements of a bureaucracy reduction programme on the table. This was also part of the transfer of businesses, notably mobile applications for small businesses and various services that can be carried out in full in the online space. Although, unfortunately, this proposal for a resolution has bled out without a vote, I would urge the Secretary of State to try to examine it with the help of his colleagues, and if they can find an eligible point in terms of business development, submit it under their own name, we bettermen will naturally support it with our vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.30]]
u2018-11-12-291	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask Ákos Kara if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] I can tell you can. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-292	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to say to my fellow Member who spoke that thank you very much for the proposal and that it is certainly worth talking about in the general economic and economic development debate on digitalisation. But I would like to tell you that the current bill is specifically about making public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications accessible. Therefore, this proposal does not provide a framework for it. Firstly, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would just like to point out that, for example, in setting up a super-fast Internet network, we have provided significant facilitations for businesses involved in legal accessibility. Thanks to this, there are now nearly 500,000 new landline access points, 500 thousand households can only access the wired super-fast internet as a result of the joint work of the last few years, the government's presentation and the Parliament's decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments in the current and previous legislative stages. I would like to ask you to support this bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate on the Commission's report on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2017. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/452. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is therefore up to the Members to speak in the time frame on the agenda. In this context, I would like to give the floor first to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-11-12-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The report on the implementation of the 2017 budget of this organisation shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Bill No. 1. Over the last eight years, numerous opposition representatives have said and countless professional organisations have said that the transformation of this organization into a hybrid organisation is the case that an agency, an authority, works within the same budget framework as an otherwise supervised media organisation, dictates in itself that all reports will be opaque. Every report will always raise doubts and doubts in the opposition, which are already dictated by the system, which has been developed. During the debate on the Committee on the Budget, we asked the representatives of the Office a number of questions in the direction to explain certain spending. I consider that it is okay for us to present these to the plenary session. Forint 432 million was spent on various legal and other counseling services in 17th grade, from which you can't even see what kind of tasks they supported. In fact, we do not even know the content of simple counseling, counseling, and other counseling. After all, a lawyer, legal representation, or counseling is completely different from some kind of business counseling, some sort of development of a procurement, perhaps prior to the ideas. We asked the rapporteurs in the Committee on Budgets, and we did not get an answer. The authority spent HUF 208,5 million on advertising and propaganda, with which the problem is that on the one hand we are talking about hundreds of millions of forints, and we do not know what kind of advertising, what kind of propaganda. Although we have received an answer that was about making different advertising films out of 208 million forints in order to increase media awareness, I consider that nowadays, when media editing is almost in the hands of high school children through their smartphones, propaganda money of this magnitude was not necessary at all. What was extremely incomprehensible and indeed said is a 30% increase in IT purchases compared to budget and implementation. We consider that an IT development is not designed and executed in a day or two, not in a week or two, or even in a month or two. It was unthinkable for us to see how such a development could have increased to such a great extent. Of course, we didn't get any answers. In any case, we consider that even in the light of market conditions, there has been a huge overpriced situation. We did not understand on what basis an organisation with such a huge reserve as the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's overdraft could have, since it has a reserve of billions of forints if my fellow Members look at the report. Then we were told that MTVA still has overdrafts. Well, we didn't really understand that either, because where the budget can allocate $90 billion, what is it they can't afford from their own resources? The budget allocated 36 billion to various foundations and media applications, of which HUF 32.5 billion was spent and remaining 4. We asked whether out of the 4 billion small media workshops in rural areas could not have been supported, which do not serve government propaganda, but perhaps society with information and information, but unfortunately we did not get an answer to them either. The Authority provided HUF 2.3 billion in operating aid for the operating costs of a certain Media Science Institute. This Institute of Media Science came to public interest when, in the production of András Koltay, a work entitled "The Dream of Freedom of Speech" was published. We asked whether it was strange that the authority's own employee would produce a publication and that they could support it with HUF 2.3 billion. That's more than rude. Then there was another serious item, which we considered to be an issue, and that is that 92 million forints were poured in to support those who were reemployed as public workers. We are well aware that in many places throughout the country, in order to obtain cheap employment in the public sector, workers with very high skills have been dismissed and hired back as public workers. We were told by the authority representative that this happened at MTVA. Seriously, does anyone really think that in an organization with a budget of HUF 90 billion out of taxpayers' money, they still have the nerve to hire even a piece of public worker when they can get them into status? In addition, the report also states that not all authorised statuses are uploaded, i.e. there is free employment. I would like to ask my fellow Members that this report is not accepted simply because, although it is possible that it complies with the accounting rules, it is possible that the requirements that the authority prepares a report comply with it, but this report of this organisation, this system of organisations, is not suitable for showing the truth to citizens on the one hand, show respectable, careful management and that this organisation is doing its work for the good of society. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-295	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai, on behalf of the Dialogue. [[19.40]]
u2018-11-12-296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I join my colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, and this Commission report cannot eliminate the fundamental doubt that it is worth spending nearly a hundred billion forints of public money to finance the operation of this governing party, or, if you will, an institution previously operating as a public media media, as the media of the party of the state. If we want to watch Russian propaganda, see, read, hear, then we would go to Sputnik or Russia Today's pages, we do not need this to lie down on the Hungarian government channels with NMHH's mediation and approval. If we want to follow the propaganda of Fidesz, then we will buy the Ripost, and then we will meet with the shameful front pages on which they will incite hatred against the group of Hungarian people. But we do not want to read this, and we do not want the Fidesz oligarchs rented out of public money to publish such cards, and our fellow citizens who used to work as journalists to name such ones. If we wanted there to be no equal and objective information on public affairs, we would, of course, maintain exactly such an NMHH. But since this is aimed at emptying, destroying democracy and, unfortunately, leading to more and more effective ways, I think that the NMHH, which, let alone assisting these processes, should intervene when the concentration of power of the fidesz media oligarchs, the damage to media freedom, the elimination of freedom of the press, the fact that the Hungarian people's right of orientation seems to be slowly irreparable. But after he doesn't do this, he doesn't do his job, so from now on, all the public money he spends on his operation is not just useless and useless, but it's completely damaging and counterproductive. So it would be gratifying if the budget of both so far and next year included zero forints, then at least it could not do any more harm to Hungarian people, could not do any more harm to Hungarian democracy, and then perhaps we could live in a little more peace in this country. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-297	Thank you, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has checked in. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-298	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond very briefly to what has been said in the debate on the current so-called Commission reports. I am a member of the Committee on Culture and not a member of the Committee on Budgets, but the Committee on Culture has also discussed this proposal and has conducted part of the detailed debate in the Committee on Culture. In the detailed debate, there was Madam President, there was an economic director, and we asked a lot of questions, and we got answers to that. And I asked my fellow Members in the Group for information on what had happened in the debate on this agenda. I was informed that these questions, which were put here today in the debate on the Commission's reports by Andrea Varga-Damm, were also raised at the committee meeting in the detailed debate and then left. Subsequently, notwithstanding the fact that he did not take part in the committee's meeting, he received a detailed, detailed and accurate reply to his questions. What I'd like to ask you is, if you're serious about something, read it or notice that you've responded to it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-11-12-299	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has now indicated that she wishes to speak to her. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-12-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In view of the fact that Mrs Mónika Dunai felt that she should address me, I would like to inform her that I was present at the part of the committee meeting on which the questions were addressed and the answers. Just because some of my fellow Members remember it wrong doesn't mean that it's true. I would also like to point out that, from the fact that someone may not attend a committee meeting because, by the way, they had to go to the Defence Committee, because there was a task, so I often carry two or three parallel committees, simply so that we can carry out our tasks everywhere, does not mean that we do not really deal with the issues and that it does not mean that we are not talking about reality in plenary. I would like to say to Mrs President that we have asked and have received answers from the representatives of the authority on a number of other issues. Which I have raised at this meeting, we have not received any substantive answers or, as I have explained, we have received answers which cannot be accepted, at least not as opposition representatives. Therefore, with great respect, not only my fellow Member, but also the others, please note that as long as we have the right to speak, we will talk, as long as we have the right and the basis for criticism, we will also criticize, because that is what we are doing and that is why we have been sent here. If we were sitting on the opposite side, standing on the opposite side, and we were the ruling party, then you would not, five times, criticize this way, because we know about their opposition activities before 2010, when they practically didn't get involved in what they didn't face. So let them accept for the next three and a half years that we will always criticize what can be criticized, because we have one goal: not to knock the government down, but to get things going well. But if I still have a minute 53 seconds, I'd like to say one more. I hear what they did wrong four or five times a day under socialist governments. I would like to say one thing and remind you that you said before 2010 that you will govern well. They didn't say that they would govern better than the socialists, they said that they would govern better. This means that they will steer well in absolute terms. So I am asking you very much that your answer to a question should not start with what the social or liberals have done, because no one cares, at least on our side. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]] We expect you to do everything right because that's what you believe in society. Not only on this issue, but on countless other matters, we will always, always, always say, you will always, always say that you are doing everything perfectly, but we will just see how society is doing. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-301	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Mónika Dunai has now applied again for a speech. Here.
u2018-11-12-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Now, after all of this, I am very curious, and I will read the literal minutes of the committee meeting, and I will ask them what questions my fellow Member has asked and what answers they have received, because I am now genuinely curious about them. [[Márta Demeter: Only the Origo will write it! Keep an eye on this.]] No one has questioned, my honourable fellow Member, that they have the right to speak, that they have the right to ask anything 20 times according to democracy and house rules. I just want to underline that you have the right to read and to listen to the answers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-11-12-303	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[Zsolt V. Németh nods.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-304	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the specific legal status of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, as this material to be discussed does not mean that it is a chapter of the budget, a self-employed entity, a self-regulatory authority, the Committee on Budgets that submitted the proposal here. In creating the House Rules of Parliament, we, the legislators, did not think that the detailed debate had to be doubled, we had neither intention nor decision. On this basis, what is now a matter for this meeting is only, to sum up, that I ask my fellow Members, because we have had a detailed debate on how to accept the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[19.50]]
u2018-11-12-305	Thank you, Congressman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate on the Commission's report on the 2019 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is now under way. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/2052 The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I will also ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh, as rapporteur, if he would like to comment on the proposal now. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to comment at the moment. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to the Members of the Council to take part in their speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-11-12-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it was clear from my previous words that I am not a great friend of this organization, not because of the participants themselves, but because of the legal structure on which it operates and because of the content that flows from public media to Hungarian citizens. Therefore, it is natural for me to be quite critical of this organisation and I believe that all honest Hungarian citizens who hear constantly from public media falseness, lies and fear-protecting must be protected, because that is our job. With regard to the budget and the accounts of the NMHH, I have revealed the level of budgetary resources allocated to public television and radio since 1990. I did this because the budget of 19 again provides nearly HUF 100 billion to this organisation on the grounds that this is the reason why MTVA and its associated organisations are being maintained. In 1990 the public television and radio budget was HUF 2.6 billion, which represents HUF 32 billion in present value. This was a very outlier compared to previous years, but in 1990, at the time of the change of regime, it was natural for a democratic transformation to require the creation of media with technical and personal resources capable of helping citizens in a democratic transition. By 1998, HUF 6.6 billion was allocated to public radio and television, which represents HUF 23 billion in present value. In 2002 it had a budget of HUF 13.3 billion, which represents HUF 28 billion in present value. In 2006 there were 14 billion, which is HUF 21 billion in present value. In 2010 it was HUF 28,5 billion, which is HUF 32.5 billion in present value. The year 2010 was also outstanding, but it is not particularly surprising, as the socialist-liberal government has done everything in its power to help the media reduce Fidesz's popularity, and so it has given in to the ability of its psychics to act against them. So I have to say that neither side was better than the other on this issue. However, I apologize for the HUF 28,5 billion in 2010, which is HUF 32.5 billion today, and spending three times as much on national public service media is really harsh. In particular, their programming structure is extremely unstandard and cannot be called modern in any way. The visual world behind the news programs may require a high level of IT investment, and possibly special equipment that can carry it out, but the other broadcasts repeat schematic, crappy, old series and old movies. Technically, the level of professionalism of these media platforms has not increased in the last eight years. If we look at the frequency charges for which you misunderstood my words at the committee meeting, Madam President, because she said that I was confusing the frequency fee with the frequency charge paid by mobile operators. We're not mixing anything, one thing is that both mobile operators and different media platforms are buying the state property, the frequency at which their activities are carried out. If we look at the purpose of the legislator at the time twenty years ago for what these fees were for, it was clearly intended for the community, society, to benefit from the profits that these organisations can make with their revenues under market conditions, as this is a wealth on which a business can be built. If we look at what revenue from frequency use is spent on, we can see that they are practically not enough to sustain these media. This means that this joint wealth of Hungarian citizens cannot generate enough revenue to sustain this lying public media company at all. We've looked at the details of farming, and we've seen some amazing waste. I will tell my colleague Mónika Dunai that unfortunately, when my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy asked me specifically about the remuneration at MTVA, we did not get an answer to that either. We have been promised to be informed in writing, but to date we have not been informed, most likely because of wages of a magnitude that do not reflect very much the performance that comes from public service media to citizens. The amount of remnant expenses and personnel expenses was amazing. Technically, there was only one previous experience that would justify this kind of cost. We consider that nothing else is being served, but it is a paying place, so the payments ordered from various subcontractors or contractors are most likely to have to flow back to some place, because this result, which we could expect from spending money of this magnitude, we do not get. My fellow Member, Anett Bősz, collected during the budget debate that this money, which he wants to give to this organisation with the 2019 budget, means pay attention now! That Margaret Hospital could run for 21 years with this money. Do you compare what we're talking about? ! Budget support for an entire hospital could save and heal the lives of many of our countrymen; it can work for 21 years from what we give to this lying propaganda machine for a year. I consider, fellow Members, that not only the distorted nature of the organisation and the kind of result or failure that comes out of these organisations every day, but also the allocation of this amount of budgetary resources can only mean that an opposition representative cannot support such a budget. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-307	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Zsolt V. Németh if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-308	Thank you, yes. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say the same thing now: the detailed debate was carried out by the committee appointed, no amendments were tabled, and I would not consider it appropriate to repeat the detailed discussion and to recall what was said there. Maybe it's just that there's 84 percent of the higher education staff, so the wages indicated there are average salaries, I'm saying to Mrs. Economic Director, that there was such a response, the average salary for the authority was HUF 470 826 with reimbursements and rewards of 773 thousand. [[20.00]] And this is justified by the proportion of higher education attainments, so there was such a response, such a response, but I would not mention any further details. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-309	Thank you for your statements. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the publication of an amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York, dated 30 March 1961, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, and the debate on the summarised amendment are now now taking place. Government referral T/2929. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-11-12-310	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed at its meeting on 8 November 2018 the T/2929 of the T/2929 on the announcement of an amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York, dated 30 March 1961, published by Decree-Law Decree-Law No 4 of 1965. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 33 votes in favour. The amending proposal contains an amendment of a legal technical nature of a point on the part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The aim of the bill is to bring the decision of the UN Committee on Drugs into the Hungarian legal order. The United Nations Committee on Drugs has decided to include six new substances in the relevant lists of the Single Drug Convention. These substances can provide opportunities for a number of abuses. The classifications of the list shall be taken over by each signatory State, but no substance shall be declared as a drug under national competence. In the event of acceptance, these substances will be classified as new psychoactive substances under the Hungarian legislation in force, which will allow these substances to be placed in the most strictly controlled category internationally. These UN resolutions are international agreements, so it is essential that the Parliament recognises its binding scope and publish the text of the resolutions. Dear House, In order to act more effectively against drugs, I urge you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-311	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: No.]] He indicated that he did not wish to speak at this time. The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not present a rapporteur, so now it is time for representatives to speak if someone press the button. [[No one's reporting.]] But that didn't happen. The debate is therefore closed. For the sake of decency, I would like to ask the author again if he would like to comment. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: No, thank you.]] It says no. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the proposal for an amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, and the discussion of the summarised amendment will now follow. The government referral is T/2932. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will also be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz again.
u2018-11-12-312	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/2932 of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 33 votes in favour. The amending proposal contains an amendment of a legal technical nature to the extent of a point drawn up by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the decision of the United Nations Committee on Narcotics, six more psychotropic compounds were added to the so-called second list, which was also part of the Convention signed in Vienna in 1971. The United Nations resolutions in question are international agreements, so it is essential that the Parliament recognise its binding scope and publish the text of the resolutions, similar to the previous bill. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] That is why I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-313	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be a speech from the Group of Jobbik, Mr Rig Lajos. [[Intercoms, among other things, the microphone, Mr. President.]] Sorry, yeah.
u2018-11-12-314	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Both of these proposals are about the same thing; the previous one, which we discussed, and there was no debate, was about fentanyl as a drug, and I think it should be noted, thanks to the good God, here in Hungary and in Europe, this form of drug abuse, this enjoyment article is, in fact, not yet so popular and not so widespread, rather in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. However, the psychotropic substance in question, whether by its name or by its name, is unfortunately becoming increasingly popular among young people, and in the debate I asked the Secretary of State several questions that I did not get an answer to, and I ask the Secretary of State, I hope that you can answer those questions. My first question was because in 2017 we had a proposal for a five-party consultation, on which Fidesz-KDNP did not come, and we tried to create a legislative or other mechanism on drugs that would be a much better tool in our hands to fight against drug abuse and protect our young people. There Gábor Zacher explained his professional suggestions that could be put into effect. My first question was to the Secretary of State, and I hope that the Secretary of State will answer that question, whether the health government has considered bringing them down to the ministerial level and regulating them there. One is that it is faster, two: despite the fact that this bill comes before Parliament, I think that there is no Member here in this House who would vote against the inclusion of fentanyl or these psychoactive substances on the ban list. Another comment by Gábor Zacher was that the screening of these substances was so slow, because the producers who invented ten new compounds year after year, even now month after month, and we also said in the debate that we were in such a circular vitiosus, in a vicious circle that we would never catch up with ourselves, and if we looked at these two bill proposals, that when they were discussed in Vienna and New York, one was on 14 March and the other was on 16 March, and now we are writing the beginning of November 12 November, more than half a year has passed. In six months, so much poison can be spilled on Europe, Hungary, young Hungarians, that we will not be able to put them on a no-list. If we just look at the list of psychotropic substances, it's a ten-page list, and it hasn't gotten into what chemists have done in the last six months in their own little chemistry lab, and I have to say, month after month, and as the experts have said, the crystal, if anyone doesn't know yet, is a psychotropic substance that has an effect on young people that forces them to kill, kills their peers, and the herpes kills them. I also said in the debate that, unfortunately, this is a complex thing, because, from being smoked by them, this cigarette is smoked, because it is a cannabionide derivative, which is much stronger than marijuana itself, they are in such a state that, unfortunately, doctors are helpless, because they do not know what poison they are facing, it is very difficult to save the lives of such people, and these cases make up 80 percent of the emergency rooms on the weekend, and we expose our young people to this danger. [[20.10]] I asked Mr Secretary of State one more question and I trust that she can answer that. If such an emergency occurs in Hungary, there is such an emergency in Europe, and now it is not only low-income people who are affected by this type of drug or hallucinogen consumption, have they considered or are they taking any steps in the Ministry of Health to provide budgetary resources for the purchase of machines that filter these drugs? After all, this screening process takes about a week or two, but unfortunately there is not much of this in Hungary today. This could help those legislators who try to list them as soon as possible. We could save so much time if it didn't take six months to get on the no-show list. And there's one more very good and useful thing to think about, Australians have been using it for decades, they have only one ban list, nothing is allowed except what's on the list. The number of these can be limited, which is not on the list, it's all forbidden. It would be easier for the legislator, it would be easier for the police, because even though they bring in drug dealers who find powder or tobacco products of unidentifiable origin, they're out in an hour and they sell it the same way. Then the other option: those that can be ordered online and the largest supplier and dealer of Magyar Posta, are taxed at some level to represent a value that they cannot buy. You may not know it in this room, but buying a cigarette like this is nearly 500 forints, so it's not a big item for young people, but it's a bigger poison, believe me. I believe that this is Hungary's 21st anniversary. The cancer of the century, which awaits the young, kills and stupidizes. I think that we must be united in this, and I will try once again the five-party to which I invite professionals and take their advice into account, and I think that this is the only way that we can save Hungary, and that if we move on, the young people of Europe. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-315	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to react. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: No, thank you.]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is set out in the T/2061. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-316	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T/2061 on the amendment of Law No 2061 Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. 46th parliamentary decision of the year 2004 It adopted it unanimously by 31 votes in favour. The draft amendment included two technical amendments to the Committee on Culture. The Government of Hungary places particular emphasis on the promotion of nationalities, according to our traditions and the spirit of the Fundamental Law. The nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and are a factor of state making. It is our duty to protect and cultivate the language and culture of Hungarian ethnicities, and to ensure all possible conditions. Support for nationalities in Hungary is also increasing in the budget for next year. The amount allocated for this purpose has increased more than fourfold since the 2010 government change. The proposal before us also has the support of the government, which aims to ensure that national children's educators who are currently in orbit remain on the field and involve new children. In order to achieve this goal, the proposal before us calls for a significant increase from 10 per cent to 30 per cent of the national education substitute. I would ask my fellow Members to support this bill in the final vote, as at the committee meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-317	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Imre Ritter, the chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak on the agenda. [[Ritter Imre nodds.]] Allow me to inform you that you have a total time frame of ten minutes for your speech and perhaps the closing word, so be kind to manage it. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-12-318	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Bitte erlauben Sie mir, dass ich Sie in Namen des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, als Unterbreiter des Gesetzesmodifzierung T/2061. uber dem National Erziehungs- und Bildungsgesetz, Ihnen begrüße. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary as T/2061. CXC 2011 on national public education. The author of the bill on the amendment of the law, I salute you. During the general discussion of the bill, I have already explained in detail the experience of the full survey of national minority preschools in Hungary, the serious shortage of staff in the area of nationality education, and the comprehensive programme of national education designed to address this and launched in 2017. One of the key areas of the national minority educator programme is the promotion of their careers, the return of former career leavers and the start of fresh graduates and graduates. The first step was to increase the nationality bonus from 10 to 15 per cent from 1 January 2018 and the second step was to increase the bonus to 30 per cent from 1 January 2019 to 15 per cent from this legislative amendment proposal. The budgetary coverage of the increase in the nationality bonus is fully covered by the 2019 Central Budget Act, which was already adopted in spring. I would also like to thank the members of the Cultural Committee, as well as the members of the Legislative Committee and the Government, for their unanimous support for our bill at committee meetings, of course, from all groups and from independent representatives in today's debate and in tomorrow's vote. If there is any question during the debate, I will be ready to answer it in the closing word. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-12-319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to respond. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak, while we are moving within the time frame on the agenda and no two-minute speeches are possible. I ask again whether anyone wishes to take the opportunity to speak. (No indication. ) I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will look at Mr President: do you wish to speak further, not as an answer? If you wish, the option is available.
u2018-11-12-320	Thank you very much. I would just like to highlight one thing from the amendment of the law, which is extremely important, that, on the one hand, the increase in the nationality bonus applies to all ethnic teachers of all seven nationalities entitled to national minority allowances, regardless of the reservation of the national minority public education institution in question. [[20.20]] Thus, Klebelsberg-preserved, local government, local or national minority self-government, church or foundation, also for any other institution with other reservations. On the other hand, all relevant nationality public education institutions will receive, as in 2018, as in 19 they will receive the coverage of the increase in the nationality bonus as an additional premium. Therefore, the increase in the nationality bonus should not be subject to other cost frameworks or other headings. Thank you very much. Danke führ Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2018-11-12-321	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws on the subject of administrative action for foreign affairs and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow. The government referral is T/2935. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-11-12-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2935 amending certain laws on the subject of foreign affairs administration. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It accepted by 29 votes in favour, not by vote and 2 abstentions. The Law on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service adopted in 2016 and in force since August 2017 established a single external administration, including the foreign economy and cultural and scientific diplomacy, in addition to the classic diplomatic tasks. In view of this, the task and toolbox of Hungarian foreign policy have been greatly expanded. The results of the impact assessments carried out in the period after the entry into force justified the adoption of a bill to address everyday practical needs and enforcement experience and challenges. The amendments contained in the proposal do not change the purpose of the original regulation and the concept of the law itself; they only want to facilitate the smoothing of the Hungarian foreign affairs administration and the external service. It is an important and fundamental government objective to ensure that those working at our foreign representations can represent the interests and values of our country in a high degree, as effectively and flexibly as possible. Most of the amendments are technical and contain clarification provisions. I do not wish to list and detail some, but some are certainly worth mentioning. For example, in the future, it will be possible only by electronic means to report the residence of Hungarian citizens abroad, thus excluding the often late paper notification. In addition to consular loans, non-refundable grants of up to EUR 20 may be granted to our citizens who are in trouble abroad. Furthermore, it is important to highlight the case of flat-rate cost compensation for spouses serving abroad at our foreign representations, or the technical settlement of a period of at least one month, up to a maximum of six months, is also part of the external administrative regulation of the bill. The amendment also subjects to conceptual clarification such as the status, institution and function of the travelling ambassador. Dear House, The new foreign law has been able to remedy the violations previously suffered by those who performed the service as a result of their inadequate respect. With the amendments proposed by this bill, as well as amendments to the related laws, we can establish a secure basis for the efficient, fast and smooth day-to-day operation of the foreign affairs administration. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-12-323	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray: No.]] Or later. Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-324	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that this is the Foreign Affairs Administration Act, which I am quite certain is now the third time before this House as an amendment, but I would now venture that, perhaps for the fourth time, it does not help flexibility for a moment, and they have failed to create a real Foreign Service Act, although it was really necessary. This package of administrative amendments for foreign affairs, which is before us again, essentially increases chaos only and only, does not solve anything. A good year and a half ago, I myself indicated that a substantive Foreign Service Act would be needed, which regulates the details of the External Action Service with proper coherence, and otherwise not as meticulously as it is in this law. Things that should be regulated in a ministerial regulation should be brought to a completely unnecessary level of law because they cause chaos only and only chaos. There is much more need for a predictable career and a law that actually helps the External Action Service in the work that means the representation of Hungarian citizens and Hungary. I would like to highlight some interesting points from the law. It is absolutely impossible to agree that you want to charge the costs of consular protection to Hungarian citizens. It is inexplicable why the government thought of this kind of solution. In no way do we agree that people are burdened with these costs. But it is also very strange, what has been clearly shown in recent times is that consulates are being opened in the territory of the European Union. It's a very strange thing in the first place. You don't see what's in it for you, what's in it for you. I must be honest with you that this is, by the way, at the same time contradicting what I just said, that they want to charge the cost of consular protection to citizens. So, if they are charged with the cost, it is inexplicable why consulates are being opened up at every turn where, in many cases, the functioning of the consulate itself is not justified, or at least in a European Union country, where we have broad representation. It is also clear from the recent amendment that this was not thought out correctly when this law was created, that the whole proposal essentially suggests an accounting and technical approach. It's all about tricks with numbers. I only asked myself three times how it was possible and why in four years there was a 1.5-fold increase in the number of people in the foreign affairs administration. We're seeing constant magic. I have never received an exact answer from the State Department on any occasion, but it seems that they continue to do magical things, since they hide people in background institutions and foreign service. So it is clear that the huge increase in the number that we have now is intended to shift to these institutions and to the time of preparation for the external service, as they will already receive a certain percentage of the remuneration at the time of the posting, so it does not affect the budget line, nor is it burdened with what otherwise applies to foreign affairs administration. So it's really nothing but a trick with numbers. In practice, this does not improve the effectiveness of Hungary's representation. It should also be mentioned that the truth is that six months ago, or eight months ago, I said that here the ambassadors will decide on furniture and curtain colors, and then they will be running around, as well as the consuls. To be honest, I was just kidding, but it looks like you've taken it seriously, and now it's in this bill. [[20.30]] I just want to ask you, when will the ambassadors and consuls represent Hungary's interests, when will they carry out their diplomatic duties, because they are now shooting everything at them, we can now say that the choice of real estate is made of them, the conclusion of rental contracts, the selection of furniture, the equipment of the consulate or embassy, so something is absolutely amazing; slowly, I think they will also paint the wall. Really, I'll ask you, when are you gonna be free to perform real diplomatic duties? After all, I would also like to ask you that the apparatus dealing with economic affairs, I think, will be sent away at the same time, because if everything will be done by diplomats, every technical and economic matter, then certainly the apparatus dealing with economic affairs will not be necessary. So here are a few questions, and I'd really appreciate it if the government could answer those questions. However, it seems that this law is full of only such small, technical things, which do not help diplomatic activity, the more effective representation of Hungary's interests at all, it is completely unnecessary to raise this to the legal level, since these can be resolved by a ministerial decree. So if it were a real Foreign Service Act, it would be eligible, but unfortunately it is not, so the LMP Group will not be able to support this bill.
u2018-11-12-325	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-326	Mr. President, thank you very much. As I said in the general debate, I would like to repeat one or two comments and add them to what has been said there. One is that with this amendment of the law and the original 16th law, the government is actually working off an almost 30-year backlog, so it has not been an example since the change of regime that someone has attempted to regulate external relations in a comprehensive way; this is what has happened. Since it is a law whose territorial scope is essentially global and regulates extremely complex living conditions, and in an environment that is constantly changing, because the internal law of those countries of destination has an impact on the conditions under which delegates of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can work, it is therefore appropriate to review this law from time to time. That's what's happening right now. I add that we cannot promise that there will be no further changes in the future, because the point is that this legislation needs to be adapted to changing circumstances, and this is precisely how it can be achieved that our delegates are able to perform their duties most effectively. So this is what is behind the amendment of the law, and as I stressed in the general debate and in the Commission debate, I think it is very important to underline this. On certain specific issues: the issue of a return loan has been raised and the one small amount of support that can be provided in the context of consular assistance. Here the concept is that in many cases the return loan does not come due to legal conditions, and in such cases we can at least provide an extraordinary, minimal, but sufficient support to enable the data subject to resolve his/her few days as long as he/she receives family or friendly assistance. We think it's a useful shade of support. The expansion of the consular network, I think, is a welcome fact, because the very point of this is that in a given country the embassy cannot carry out the task in every case for the whole country, and in detail, economic matters, local affairs and Hungarian affairs, it is very necessary for us to have a separate consular representation. So I think that, overall, this law is now once again closer to real life. We hope that it will be permanent, but if further amendments are needed, it will have a very good reason for the change of conditions. Finally, what status is there is: there is always a need to take into account the fact that more people work in foreign service than in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in the Centre. For this reason, there has always been a tension among the number of travelers and returnees, and this is always a serious challenge. In this respect, this ministry is a special ministry, and I think that it will be no different in the future. Therefore, let us try to adjust the periods after placements and orders to this special relationship system. Let's hope this works. And that's the end of it. Thank you very much for your understanding. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-327	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/2164. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-11-12-328	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals. T/2164 amending Act No. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 32 votes in favour. The decision-making bodies of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council issued a directive in September 2010 setting out a Community resolution on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Dear House, The protection of animals is a priority and a fundamental Union value expressed in Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Differences resulting from legislation on animal testing at Member State level may create barriers to trade in products and substances the development of which involves animal testing. Like all Member States, our country transposed the provisions of the Directive into its national legal system in November 2012, which will apply from 1 January 2013. In the autumn of 2016, the Commission identified legal deficiencies in Hungarian legislation, the result of which was a infringement procedure against Hungary in 2017. The purpose of the bill before us is to close the EU infringement procedure. In order to fulfil our obligations of harmonisation and to clarify the application of the law, it is necessary to amend the law on the protection and welfare of animals. The bill on the House's table ensures that only breeders, suppliers and users who have the permission of the animal protection authority can operate. However, if it no longer meets the required conditions, the animal protection authority may withdraw the authorisation. In the event of the adoption of the amendments contained in the bill, any legal consequences can also be applied to breeders and suppliers. It should be pointed out that the proposal also contains conceptual clarifications in line with the Directive. For example, any use of animals, whether known or unknown, for invasive or non-invasive scientific purposes, under EU law is considered to be an animal experiment. In any case, the bill must be supported, since it contains the amendments necessary to complete the infringement procedure, with which we also comply with our obligations to harmonise the law. I ask this House to make a decision and to support this proposal by carefully considering all of this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-329	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Róbert Zsigó as rapporteur, at this stage of the debate or later. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to speak later. [[20.40]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, as there is a time-frame negotiation. Dear Parliament, Mr János Pócs, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-330	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 1998 XXVIII on the protection and welfare of animals in front of you T/2164 amending Act No. Bill No. 1 is a proposal that can end a sensitive matter that has been for years, which has caused a lot of intense anger. Dear fellow Members, Please allow us to pay our respects and thanks to the animalists, veterinarians, decent keepers of animals who are guided by love, compassion and passion. It can be an animal kept for hobby, profit or scientific purposes, all well-meaning people should be guided by dignity. I can see the old jasmine man who, when he handed over the pork to the meat processor, asked you to take care of him, because he's not an animal, he's an animal. I believe that the importance of animal protection must not only be represented when we lose a pet that has grown to our hearts, because it is too late. Ladies and gentlemen, The fundamental objective of this Regulation, as the Secretary of State has already pointed out, is to close the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission in connection with the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Of course, the primary and most important goal at all times for all animal protection laws is to protect animals as much as possible, whether for recreational, beneficial or scientific purposes. Animals used for scientific purposes, like all living things, were born to enjoy the joys of life and serve the joy, health, and sometimes healing of others. The provisions of the bill are clear. Hungary's legislation on animal protection in the Member States intends to comply with the European Parliament and Council Directives on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. I would like to emphasise that, by complying with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, with the entry into force of the sections of the bill, the legal consequences can also be applied to breeders and suppliers who do not comply with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, We also represent a tightening of the punishments required by society for animal torturers. In addition, it is necessary to clarify that the amendments to the Criminal Code do not really fall within the competence of the amendment to the Animal Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my appreciation for the practice of the judiciary in which the reported cases of animal cruelty have been subject to special sanctions in recent years. For all well-intentioned people, it is important to pay more attention to cases of animal torture in domestic punishment procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, In this spirit, please support the T/2164 in front of you. The adoption of bill No 1 to conclude the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission against Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-331	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows that the Act amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament under direct and universal suffrage attached to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976 Discussion of the Commission's report on the publication of Council Decision 2018/994. The government referral is T/2933. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Mr State Secretary points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. So I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament: the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs relating to the debate. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-332	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 6 November 2018, the Committee of European Affairs held a meeting on T/2933. The detailed discussion of bill No.2 as a committee. As a result of the legal basis and the content of the decision to be published by the bill, the Parliament conducts a procedure for the recognition of the mandatory scope of an international treaty, according to which the amendment concerning the content of the decision could not be submitted and the rest of the bill did not receive such a motion. In examining the bill, our Commission took into account that the publication of the decision is important not only because of our obligation under EU law. This Council decision, which was taken on the initiative of the European Parliament, no longer includes institutions of law that form the basis of European united states, such as supranational party lists, but also provides for important issues that promote the implementation of the principles of EU electoral law. Such is the promotion of the participation of EU citizens in the European Parliament elections in a third country. This is perhaps the most important novelty of the bill, which should not be stressed enough: the right to vote may already be linked to EU Member State citizenship in May, not to a place of residence or residence. The further content of the decision to be announced also aims at making more members of the European Parliament participate in the elections throughout the Union. However, some of the provisions are not relevant to us, so the amendment of the law that has been submitted in parallel with this proposal is intended to identify the solutions which could be used in Hungary, which may need to be incorporated into our legal system. However, our Commission could only take a position on the content of the bill before us. I therefore have only one duty: to inform you that the detailed debate was closed at our meeting on 6 November and that the Commission report was submitted. I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[20.50]]
u2018-11-12-333	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, who will present the Commission's minority opinion. Of course, the timeframe will be adapted to the previous timeframe for you as well. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This committee meeting was rather interesting, which is why I will summarise the manner in which the Head of Department did not answer the questions I have said at that committee meeting, and why I did not accept the report submitted by the committee. I abstained in this case, although the bill itself will be voted by the Jobbik Group in the vote tomorrow, because we can really only talk about the transposition of a Council decision in this case. In the context of the electoral law, which is linked to this proposal and will be voted on in a few weeks, further questions may arise. That's part of what I was trying to bring up at the committee meeting. I told them, but Mr. Head of Department said that I should attend the other committee, the Justice Committee, and ask these questions there. None of my professional ideas could say anything meaningful, which I was quite shocked to hear, as I referred back to the fact that there were also very serious abuses and, where appropriate, fraud in relation to Hungarian citizens from third countries. Moreover, the government's attitude and the policy that it has been pursuing over the past few years has been a wedge between Hungarian and Hungarian, which is certainly not in the interest of Hungarians living in Hungary, nor of our brothers and sisters across the border, our fellow countrymen living in torn areas. So we have been talking about serious abuses in the past, and I have been trying to ask you how these abuses will prevent them from happening even during the elections to the European Parliament, but I have not received any meaningful answers to my suggestion. I also referred to the fact that, in the context of the vote on the letter, it is very important not to distinguish between Hungarians living in torn areas and emigrated Hungarians, so that they should be given the right to express their views by letter, even in the case of a vote in the European Parliament, as in the case of parliamentary elections. I also asked whether the government would like to use it to set a threshold for EP elections. There's no such thing now, there's about 4.7 percent of the threshold, but there's a possibility. I just wanted to ask what was going on, but I may also be sending this question to the Secretary of State, so it would be good to have something to say about it, because unfortunately, at the Committee on European Affairs, we did not find out what was going on in this regard, just as there was no reply to my proposals, my opinion, Jobbik's position in the context of the electronic and online vote. That is why I abstained, and that is why I formulated this minority opinion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-335	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I could join the solo before me, so I could put it, because I had similar thoughts when I listened to the sentences of the rapporteur and of the member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Concerns can be divided into two large groups, since this topic is on the table today and will be in the coming weeks, and I think that there is certainly a possibility for Parliament to correct these problems until the European Parliament elections are announced. Firstly, with regard to abuses in previous elections: what has been said before me is very justified. I think that any influence or distortion of the electoral will in this direction, these abuses, must be rejected. And we must do everything we can here in Parliament to ensure that legislation is adopted that hinders them or restricts them to as small a circle as possible. On the other hand, I would like to say that there is no distinction between a Hungarian citizen and a Hungarian citizen, and there is no way to distinguish between the way in which the right to vote is exercised. Obviously, in the coming weeks, in relation to the European Parliament elections, your proposals include facilitation in relation to Hungarian citizens across borders. We understand that, and we recommend that all Hungarian citizens living outside the border should be offered easier proposals in the next period. We are thinking specifically of Hungarian citizens who have a Hungarian address, but who are working abroad or studying there. This political debate is often said, but in many cases these people go abroad because of today's Hungarian public relations, because of the economic situation, hundreds of thousands of people. I would like to say that if we have such a proposal on our table, which is really about having as many Hungarian citizens as possible take part in the elections to the European Parliament, we can take advantage of the fact that the whole of Europe is interested in this, the higher the participation in the elections to the European Parliament, then I think it is right for you to decide in the next few weeks what I hope will be opened up to Hungarian citizens with a home address but living abroad. I think it's a very important question. Moreover, the specific concerns about this election cannot arise, which would indicate the complex nature of voting, since citizens do not vote for individual candidates in this respect, so there will not be 106 ballot papers different from one constituency to another, but rather a very simple vote, a list vote. I think that a good test of the fulfilment of electoral law could thus be a decision that would allow Hungarian citizens working or living across the border to vote in the letter. So I wanted to make a brief use of the presentation here at this late hour. In the next few weeks, I think there is an opportunity for Parliament to correct this mistake. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-337	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to react. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-12-338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Just so that the question is not left unanswered, although it was rightly said at the committee meeting that this law is not the subject of the election procedure law's decision on how to vote. I can only repeat it, because it was a response to several debates and repeated claims that, on the basis of the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Venice Commission and other decisions, precisely the law on the current electoral procedure meets the criterion that homogeneous electoral groups should be set up. It does not work, therefore, that those who are in Hungary must vote on the spot, and those who are resident, who are currently abroad, and those who are also entitled to vote on the letter. Who can verify in such a system whether this is actually happening or not for announcement. As far as my fellow Member Tibor Bana's point of view is concerned, in fact, the abuses that you have spoken of have not received any justification other than that the opposition parties, who have not taken part in enough of these votes, are spreading these rumours. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-12-339	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal for the amendment of individual laws for consumer protection purposes. The government referral is T/2922. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-11-12-340	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/2922 on the amendment of certain laws for consumer protection was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 8 November 2018. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 30 votes in favour. On 28 February of this year, the European Union's decision-making bodies, the European Council and the European Parliament adopted a regulation which, as a general principle, explicitly prohibits traders from discriminated against consumers in buying goods and using services with regard to their nationality, place of residence or place of establishment, in order to protect consumers' rights more widely and to exploit the potential opportunities offered by the internal market. [[21.00]] The Regulation applies to both traditional and online purchases of goods and services. Dear House, We are all aware of the negative examples of everyday life where traders provide different access conditions for certain consumers for different reasons, whether it is territorial differentiation or the application of different prices. The Government of Hungary is committed to ensuring a wide range of consumer rights and strengthening consumer protection legislation. For example, we can remember strong action against certain airlines because of their unfair commercial practices. It should be stressed that the EU Regulation does not force traders to sell their goods or services to all players in the single market, thus making it unnecessary for them to change their own business model. Since the Regulation is applicable in its entirety and directly, it is not necessary to establish detailed domestic legislation. Only the amendment of the two laws referred to in the House's bill requires acceptance so that domestic legislation can also serve effective justice. The Government of Pest County, currently acting as a consumer protection authority, has been designated as the body responsible for implementing the Regulation. The adoption of the regulation must be supported, as in future Hungarian consumers will be able to buy under the same conditions and use services from abroad, whether online or traditionally, as nationals of other Member States. In order to ensure and further strengthen the rights of the internal market, I call on this House to give careful consideration to what has been said and to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-341	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that at this stage of the debate he does not want to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not set up a rapporteur, so now we are going to hear speeches from its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-342	Mr President, Dear House, If so many coming outs are allowed, I like consumer protection-type legislative proposals, because here it is much easier to reach a public agreement in the House than it is on much more politicised topics. I, too, support the package before us, despite the fact that we are talking about an EU implementation that could be supplemented with domestic flavours. I see one contradiction that the legislator has not been able to resolve yet, and this concerns the conflict of consumer protection with business development. From a consumer point of view, we want all Hungarian customers to have access under similar conditions to the goods of German, Great Britain, and so on, webshops, which we have often not been able to order because we were geographically lying in the wrong direction in their eyes, so they may not have delivered here. They're expanding this activity, okay. But from a business development point of view, I still have questions about how this logic meets with the fact that in the case of Hungarian businesses there is no such thing, if not an obligation, but a strong orientation for them to market throughout Europe, while they are often unable to do so by reason of their clear competitive disadvantage. That is why I wanted, as I did at previous stages of the debate, once again to highlight our business development-type proposals that can slowly resolve this competitive disadvantage and then eliminate it, and that, along with the removal of the amazing administrative and bureaucratic burdens of Hungarian businesses, it would be possible, let us say, for a smaller Hungarian webshop to extend its activities to the whole of Europe. There are problems in the internal market, too, because if, let's say, someone wants to sign with the Hungarian Post, I, being a conservative person, would typically do this, then they encounter a tariff that basically renders smaller segments of retail impossible. But we also see that competitive disadvantages do not only occur here, but also with regard to the amazing bureaucratic burden. Therefore, we still do not see how the legislator's good intentions are behind the final product, which can be positive for Hungarian businesses. If we can resolve this contradiction, even at a late stage in the debate, then I think that the package before us can be supported without further delay. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-343	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-344	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said in the general debate that the proposal can be supported on our part, and obviously because technical amendments have been made to this, and this is therefore unchanged. Therefore, I would not add any conditions to this aid right now. I'd rather make some suggestions. It is clear to me that in some of Daniel Z. Karpát's sentences it is the bill on consumer protection in which there is always consensus. That's right. Every proposal on consumer protection has been supported practically recently, and any proposal that broadens and strengthens consumer rights. That's what I'd like you to do in two areas, as well as the rest of you. One is that I see and hear on the news that, in terms of air transport, there is still a need to strengthen these rights. There are a lot of scandalous cases in this regard. Steps have been taken in this matter, but I think further steps are needed. If they do that, I can tell you that we can think constructively in this, or together. Secondly, there has been a debate on several sets of subjects here in Parliament today; in terms of financial matters, financial institutions, banks, I think that better legislation can always be put in place that protects consumers' rights more effectively. In recent decades, we have heard a lot of backsliding happenings here as well. I think that there is much more to be done in Hungary to strengthen consumer rights, and there is still much to be done to strengthen consumer protection. However, this proposal, in addition to the fact that it contains progress for harmonisation purposes, is obviously something that we will support in tomorrow's vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-345	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Dániel Z. Karpa. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-346	Mr President, Dear House, There was an important moment left out of this debate that the Parliament had a Committee on Consumer Protection earlier. This Committee on Consumer Protection between 2010 and 14 I think it worked well, as far as possible, even if it was then swept away by various political storms. In the next cycle, from 2014 onwards, the area of consumer protection has been integrated into the very large economic mega-board. Although a consumer protection subcommittee was established here, I was able to manage it on paper for a while, but it was not able to do any more essential work in the shadow of the Economic Committee. I mean, I've been paying attention to a subcommittee meeting, let's be honest, it's negligible, and my media attention is converging towards zero. That is why I would advise my fellow Members, whether within the Committee on Economic Affairs, to establish, in any event, a consumer protection working group or subcommittee of some kind, to deal with this at its own weight. So, not in the sense that, say, a pro-government majority is formed, and then they do not come to the meeting and make it inoperable, but, in the framework of meaningful professional work, I feel that you can invite so many experts that there can be professionally formulated recommendations that opposition representatives now have to bring in in in this late hour. I think that this area is worth it, that stubborn, determined Members, if they put themselves there, then there will certainly be opposition support in favour of sensible proposals. I suggest that you take down the parking mafia, the introduction of a 24-hour freeway sticker, and I don't mention it any further, you're familiar with our professional proposals. These are non-ism-free, right- or left-wing professional proposals, and we can provide support for them. I ask that the framework be set up for it, because in this way the debate on proposals such as this will be very different. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-347	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-12-348	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you for the support that I feel is being shown by all the factions in relation to this proposal. [[21.10]] The other is the motion for enterprise development raised by my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. This is obviously an EU law transplant material on consumer protection, so it is difficult to fit into this, but of course we are open to any business development proposals that ensure the Hungarian economy's progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-349	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on individual tax laws relating to EU obligations and on the subject of tax administration amendments to certain laws follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/2931. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as a matter of nationality and EU agenda. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-11-12-350	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 8 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2931 amendment of certain tax laws relating to EU obligations and to the tax administration of certain laws. Bill No. 1. On 9 November 2018, the Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report in accordance with Article 46 of the House Rules. pursuant to Rule 25 of the Rules of Procedure, by 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, the proposal contains the necessary amendments to comply with Hungary's EU obligations and reflects the feedback received in the practical application of the new system of tax administration. In addition, the proposal before us contains amendments which help to interpret the clarifications that have become necessary in certain tax categories. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight some forward-looking provisions in the proposal. With regard to the general sales tax, the higher performance of the economy will increase the threshold of tax exemption from HUF 8 million to HUF 12 million next year, which could make it easier for more than 650 thousand taxpayers both from a financial and administrative point of view. On the initiative of the Government, the Parliament intended to provide a reduced VAT rate of 5% on the sale of new residential properties for a transitional period of 4 years in 2015, i.e. until 31 December 2019. The proposal before us makes a very important, important amendment by requiring that the reduced rate of VAT may be applied to new residential properties after 31 December 2019 or at the latest on 31 December 2023, for which a final building permit or construction has already been notified on 1 November 2018 in accordance with the rules of simple notification. The proposal also proposes that an entrepreneur studying in a secondary or higher education institution should not be regarded as a full-time taxpayer during the period during which his studies are suspended until he is 25 years of age. Among the economic whitening measures, it is important that the tax authorities have to carry out mandatory checks on companies operating on a long-term loss-making basis, whose net turnover in two consecutive business years reaches HUF 60 billion separately for each business year, and their taxable profit is zero or negative for both business years, given that these taxpayers are more likely to avoid tax. The amendment also took into account the fact that start-ups typically make one-off large-value investments that are not always covered by revenues during the first period after their start-up, and therefore compulsory monitoring will not apply to companies that start up without legal predecessors in their first four business years. Ladies and gentlemen, Much of the proposal before us, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, ensures the implementation of EU obligations and is fine-tuning the newly introduced tax administration system. In addition to the above, there are several significant changes in the interests of citizens. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill tomorrow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-12-351	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, who will present the minority opinion in the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-352	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The author of the majority opinion concluded that the proposal included several amendments in favour of citizens. This is partly the case, for example, I think that raising the kata threshold is a forward-looking thing, but I could also say that steps have also been taken to eliminate the expected anomalies in the construction sector, since the 5% VAT will be phased out, which I do not think is necessarily a good one. So there are forward-looking proposals, and many things are obviously also a question of harmonisation of laws. However, I think that is already a problem, and I stressed this at the committee's meeting that such a change will be made to a comprehensive tax package which was adopted in June. So we're talking about a second tax package, actually. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I said that the summary amendment could be considered as a third package, since the Legislative Committee held two meetings last week. One of them is Thursday afternoon at one o'clock. As I recall, we discussed the proposal as a fourth item here. There were only 81 pages on the background of the Economic Committee, the TAB's own amendment proposal, submitted by the pro-government representatives, was also over 70 pages, and there were also amendments tabled by MSZP members, which, unfortunately, were not supported. There were, therefore, only amendments of such a magnitude in the summarised amendment proposal that the committee had to be convened again the next morning, since, obviously, amendments which were not mutually exclusive were partly adopted, and then other points were put out. The vote alone has been a very complicated and complex process, and it is unfortunate that we are discussing in three packages the package of proposals governing this type of fundamental obligation for citizens. This has a fundamental impact on legal certainty. This is one of the fundamental and principled issues. On the other hand, I would like to take a few things out, which is particularly problematic for us, and at the last minute it slipped into the summary amendment, so to speak. For weeks now, you have heard the news that you want to eliminate the so-called culture, as regards the performing arts, that they could also use the system of corporate tax advantages, which, by the way, was rightly introduced by the then government before 2010 at the time of socialist governance. You're actually going to eliminate this from one moment to the next. Obviously, this will also eliminate a very important leg, a stable foundation, of alternative performing arts. In fact, they argue that they will replace these funds in some form, through ministerial and other support. That way, you'll obviously have a direct influence on what can get money, what can't get money. If that is the principle of directorship for you, then, for example, I would suggest rethinking the corporate tax exemption for football. Let us say that the principle of success and the number of viewers should be important, because then perhaps we would get quite different numbers than those which, by the way, are specifically politically based or are suspected of being distributed on a political basis. So it's not two months before the tax year, and I think it's outrageous. The second is the introduction of 5% VAT in the construction sector. Obviously, if I look at the proposal announced by Mihály Varga last week that this 5 percent for buildings with a permanent building permit before 1 November and for simple announcements made by electronic notification, this could be a step forward from a family point of view, who, let's say, feared that it would be very difficult to find a contractor for next year, were not quite sure that the process would end, and it is fortunate that it would be possible to issue VAT of 5 percent years later for contractors. [[21.20]] At the same time, someone might have known about the question of November 1st, that he had something good to submit before and someone didn't. So there will be an unjustified distinction here too, and I also said it at the committee meeting. I think the right solution to this would have been to maintain the 5% VAT in the construction sector. This is in the interest of family support, as Hungarian families can get new real estate cheaper, and this is also in the interest of the construction industry. So two birds can be killed with one stone here, even if there is a budgetary impact and there is a serious budgetary impact. I think tens and hundreds of billions of people are going to do something far less important. Last thing I should mention, Mr President, is that we had an amendment to the cafeteria. The government practically destroyed the earlier Kafeteria system in June, despite the protest of all trade unions and major trade union movements, without consulting the trade unions, so that the president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association did not listen to the pro-government majority in the Legislative Committee when we wanted to give our proposal the opportunity to do so. They didn't really negotiate with the unions. And trade union demands remain about rethinking this, re-establishing what it was, and then rethinking the cafeteria system together with the unions. These were the problematic points that were formulated by opposition representatives. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-353	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Norbert, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On the mark of Norbert Izer:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that at this stage of the debate he does not want to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the Economic Committee. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2018-11-12-354	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you briefly that our committee is T/2931, which has been declared a minority item. At its committee meeting on 6 November 2018, the draft law relating to the obligations of the Union and amending certain laws on the subject of tax administration was put on the agenda and the Parliamentary Decision on certain house rules 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. In examining the provisions of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the HSZ, it concluded that they were in conformity with Article 44 of the HSZ. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make an amendment, so the Committee decided not to submit the amendment closing the in-depth debate. The committee decided, with 12 votes in favour, to close the detailed discussion of the bill on 6 November 2018. The report on the detailed debate was adopted by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. I would like to mention that the Legislative Committee has tabled and adopted, as its own motion, an amendment concerning Annex 1, paragraph 4.12.1 of the Personal Income Tax Act, which affects the interests and rights of nationalities. The above-mentioned point is added to point 4.12.1.1 (d), which states that the scholarship granted to the student on the basis of a tender for participation in the teaching of nationality is exempt. This means that students preparing for the teaching career can receive a tax-free scholarship. Thank you to the Government and Parliament of Hungary for supporting the teaching of ethnic education in Hungary with the above measures. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/2931. The detailed discussion of the draft law relating to the EU obligations of individual tax laws and amending certain laws on the subject of tax administration has been concluded by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and has not made a proposal for an amendment. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Fidesz and DK.]]
u2018-11-12-355	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-356	Mr President, Dear House, Peaceful moments vanished, which may or may not have marked the previous proposals. The fact is that, with regard to the tax package that lies before us, neither in the general debate nor in the later TAB expansion stage, nor now, the pro-governments cannot address the fundamental concerns that this package is unsupportable and even self-destructive for those who accept it, because it will come back. It seems quite clear that, if we look at the tax system as a whole, the attitude that this government has shown for the ninth year now guarantees a kind of pampering and pampering environment for multinational companies, among you. Let's just think about job creation grants, non-refundable, infrastructure investments and even strategic contracts that provided a much larger volume discount for these interests than previously the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments, whose economic policies I had already fought, and I told them and pointed out that they were oversubsidising multi-company companies. Then comes a government, which exceeds those called Balliberian in terms of volume of support, and, in addition, while reducing corporate tax, essentially to a tax haven level for multinational companies, providing Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with a 1% cosmetic discount, by involving the cafeteria elements found here as a real wage income tax circle, it makes a net tax increase. So the idea of a single-key tax is beautiful, although philosophical debates, as long as history persists, will continue on whether progressive or single-key is the more just. I can accept the arguments in favour of a single-key instrument, by the way, and I have no problem with this if it is accompanied by an efficient economic structure, but the fact is that we see that, in respect of these cafeteria elements, as they appear as a wage income, we will have to pay taxes on income obtained so far at a reduced rate, as if a person were paid a salary. Counting a large average, it is true that up to 180 thousand forints a year per person and employee can be seen here on the loss side. And if I look at Mr. Secretary of State and, say, at the level of payment that is characteristic of Parliament, this could reach 800 thousand forints a year. So we're talking about a massive transfer. I understand the government logic: more serious real wage increases can no longer be guaranteed as they were in the past due to the fragmentation of foreign resources and other spill-over effects, and I am concerned that there will be a forced consensus between workers and employers, where the kafeteria elements or amounts so far will be incorporated into the wage by the employer. The thing is, I'm not sure at all, there's no guarantee of that. But if this happens, and we hope that it will happen, it will still be worse for the employee than it was at the age of the worker, excluding from the preferential tax base the net mass, which is actually taxed as a wage income. And since this could, on average and in scale, correspond to a 10% tax increase for an average employee, the interesting situation was that it was typically the Hungarian worker who was once again at a disadvantage in his own country, and there is no real explanation as to why the cafeteria system would only want to keep the one element of his weight, which, in any case, is related to those close to the government, and with what professional explanation they would like to eliminate that part and the segment of the whole, which is clearly said to have made life easier for Hungarian people. If we add this together by eliminating and leading out the support of the state's housing savings system, then they send a very negative message to young Hungarians, emigration to flirters. And, Mr. Secretary, you have a serious responsibility. I understand that the number of fertility rates in demographic terms is, in any case, welcome and I am very pleased to see that this has increased, but it is being silenced, and it is still being silenced in the debates that the number of women of childbearing age, the base in which the fertility ratio is at all making sense, is decreasing at a level that the number of living births, Mr Secretary of State, has fallen again. [[21.30]] Allow me to look at it as I speak. Today I purchased the 2018 edition of the Demographic Portrait in a bookshop [[He's showing it to me.]] I'm sure you're familiar with it, if you know it well, my request is not to ignore the essence of the conclusions that the decline in base and the decrease in live births that we're talking about clearly require fire-fighting intervention. In such an environment, you should not even touch the cafeteria system, you should not touch the LTP like this, you should not send such negative messages, because the fact is that, by further pushing away young Hungarians, they make the supply systems in this country unsustainable, and this is no longer about the MNB's previous two thousand thirty-something predictions, so we will bring this disaster to a close, so within a decade, you will bring it more accurately if you continue on this path. I have one more topic to mention, and this clearly concerns the extension of the VAT discount for new-built apartments. You may be surprised, but I support this motion, but let's look behind the numbers at the same time. We see that since the beginning of 2016, in terms of the number of housing permits, Minister of State, a little more than 96,000 permits have been issued, but the number of transfers is only 34.5 thousand, so we find an amazing gap between the number of building permits issued and the number of newly built properties transferred to the 5 percent VAT area, 61,6 thousand more permits have been issued than the number of buildings, apartments and real estates have been built in an excellent manner in the Takarékbank's aggregate. And we see that now, by extending the preferential VAT rate to existing licensees, basically close to government friends can restart their frozen housing projects, breathe new life into them, but wouldn't it be in the overall national interest that from the current level, which allows the entire 200-300 year-old exchange of real estate stock, we can get to the point where the real estate stock can be replaced at least every 100 years? What does that mean for a panel apartment in Frog County? So let's just think about this: we're in an untenable situation in the middle of a demographic winter in the middle of a housing crisis. Mr State Secretary, in the case of these budget lines, LTP, we are speaking modestly of a few ten billion, much more in terms of the CSOK, but this could be channeled more intelligently alongside the CSOK, not instead of against it, but alongside it, there would be a great deal of budget space to keep this acquis. Mr State Secretary, answer one question, too, with regard to the detailed debate, because this is important for the final decision: why this austerity package, the elements of which we can welcome here, and here on the greeting, let us see a big quotation mark in the minutes. What is the result of the easy-to-take-out items from the budget on Hungarian young people, on the future of Hungary, while with this negative message they can drive thousands more out of this country? I believe that this proposal follows this fundamental question. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-357	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-358	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear...
u2018-11-12-359	You have a five-minute window, Congressman.
u2018-11-12-360	Thank you very much. I would just like to say very briefly, in conjunction with my Bulgarian colleague, that we were in a bit of a difficult situation last week, because it was already arranged several weeks in advance that a visit to a Paks nuclear power plant would be accompanied by a visit to the national minority committee meeting, so it would have been difficult to submit the amendment for the tax exemption of a scholarship as a committee motion, and I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy State Secretary and his colleagues for having done this immediately, on request, and for the referral to the Legislative Committee. This is very important for us not only because we need 45 percent less budget support to pay the same net scholarships, but also because it saves us a lot of work and additional costs, because we do not have to make separate accounts, make returns, make contributions and tax payments for each individual scholarship person every month, and the rest, but simply pay net scholarships. So I would like to thank you once again for this rapid measure and for your help, and without it, we probably wouldn't have been able to solve this technically. Thank you very much. [[Varga Simeon applauds.]]
u2018-11-12-361	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has asked for a speech. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-362	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said during the debate, and I would like to confirm the fact that another tax package is coming before the House after a tax package adopted in summer, and I am constantly hearing in Parliament that administration is falling, bureaucracy is being reduced, and the preparation of the profession for next year's tax changes will be easy. I would like to draw attention to something so important that in the summer Parliament adopted the introduction of the Social Contribution Tax Act into a separate law, and then practically with this bill and the amendments to the committees, they rewritten the Social Contribution Tax Act, without even having entered into force. I just think it's outrageous. Why can they no longer make these amendments in the original summer package, include those ideas in the proposal so that the profession does not have to re-examine those amendments, thus making it difficult for the tax advisory and accounting industry to operate, and, of course, it is difficult for farmers to prepare. But to say one positive thing, and we are very pleased that the tax exemption limit for the subject is raised to HUF 12 million, because it is also accepted in the European Union, and this really makes it easier for hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs and contractors. So this is a positive change, but this is about the only positive thing in this bill, in this amendment, which this year is the second big tax package, salad law, amended the tax laws for tens of hundreds of pages. I therefore believe, as my colleague, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, said, that this amendment is not eligible, and we ask the honourable Government to shape the tax package so that when it is presented in the summer, it will be final and that the preparations can be carried out smoothly for the next year. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-363	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-364	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I asked for the floor because my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, always says that the government only supports multinational companies, but never talks about self-employed people. If we just look at my constituency, the number of individual businesses is really increasing linearly. If we look at Hungary, nearly 70,000 individual companies were registered in Hungary last year, this is 20 percent more than in 2016 and more than twice as many as in 2012. But if you look at Veszprém County in a narrow manner, 2695 individual businesses were registered in 2013, more than 6,000 in 2016, which has increased by 2300 more today, i.e. in Veszprém County more than three times the number of individual enterprises in the last five years. Thanks to the Kata, they have now grown into one of the most popular economic forms, so much so that the number of voters who voted for the Kata has now exceeded the 300,000 that Minister Mihály Varga said. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-12-365	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-366	Thank you very much. I would just like to confirm a few things that may have been left out in the context of the minority opinion, because obviously there was a little less time. First of all, I would like to stress that I am still insisting that the third tax package is a comprehensive amendment by the Legislative Committee, because it is also 107 pages that, if I remember the exact number, so that it only strengthens the opinion of my fellow Member, my opposition colleague, who spoke before me; there are not only two, but three, large amendments, which are likely to make it difficult to prepare the accounting and tax expert profession, and obviously raise questions of legal certainty from the point of view of citizens. [[21.40]] I'd like to say a few sentences about the culture. There they used a discount of between 40 and 50 billion. Here you have tried to build an argument system in the public eye, as I have seen it, that there has been abuse of this use. But I would like to say that I do not see any more serious abuses here than, if necessary, in the area of visual team sports, especially in the area of football. So I don't see that this is more serious, but I would also like to say that I find it very wrong that, in fact, the child is being poured out with bath water, so that I can live with such a turn, because if there are abuses, then they need to be clarified, the controls should be tightened up, the conditions of use changed or tightened up, but there is no way to completely eliminate something. Moreover, once again, with reasons which would otherwise have stopped in other areas of the corporate tax benefit scheme. If you think the argument system to lead the culture is true, then I don't know what it is, for example, that they have extended the support of the recovery academy in the area of another corporate tax relief system to 9 billion. [[Noise. Z. Kárpát Dániel: One player has already left.]] Yes, and in addition to the extent to which this support has achieved its objective and how it can be regarded as a real academy, a number of comments are made here by my fellow Member, otherwise quite rightly. So, the destruction of the culture in this form, by the way, at the last minute, think about the characters in their lives, or those who have planned for next year, despite all the negative news. It is November 12th, tomorrow November 13th, and the possibilities and rules for them are fundamentally changing. This is by no means correct, and this in itself makes the proposal outrageous. The other was a little bit in relation to the construction of the 5 per cent VAT: here, my fellow opposition Member said positively about this, and I also considered it a partial result in the minority opinion, because we had already refused to take out the 5 per cent VAT. First, you would have maintained your VAT of 5% on real estate that was completed and paid accordingly until 31 December 19. Last week, we had a sudden proposal that, by 1 November, anyone who had announced electronically in the case of residential property less than 300 sq m or who had a final building permit, could obviously use the VAT rate of 5 per cent by 31 December 2023, or, of course, it could be sold in this way, or the contractors could issue invoices corresponding to this. I'm going to say it again, and I'm going to stress it: it's a step. However, a small step towards solving a much bigger problem, because we can see that the prices of new properties, especially in larger cities and Budapest, and the construction costs of family houses have been so high in recent years, and I could even say that these prices have increased significantly every month in the last few months, that a very large part of the Hungarian population is unable to trace this. In this way, you cannot buy a new property, and in no way can you replace this 5% VAT with other means of supporting family support or buying a home. In addition, as has been said earlier, the housing savings system has just been dismantled and eliminated. So here we are, in my opinion, facing a huge social problem that comes after December 31, 19th. 90-95 percent of Hungarian society will not have a chance of getting this type of new-built property throughout their lifetime, if that remains so. And indeed, I think you will say, Mr Secretary of State, in your reply, that it was a temporary measure in the first place, and you said in the first place that it would be introduced until December 31, 19. I understand that legislation is just a matter of responding to social phenomena, economic problems, and the situation has changed fundamentally in recent years. Basically, construction costs have increased, housing prices have substantially increased. Moreover, as regards the increase in construction costs, this is constantly mentioned, for example, in relation to the use of EU funds. The program "Modern Cities" is slipping because of the increase in construction costs. Why is this not taken into account, for example, in the building of a house or in the building of a family house, which obviously causes great problems for the lives of tens of thousands of Hungarian families? Moreover, this is important for the construction industry, as they will become very seriously uncompetitive with a higher VAT wrench. And there will be a maladministration here, because, if I understand correctly, someone has submitted a building permit on November 12, 18, say today, because he has just arrived, then for him, let's say, for a spring ending in 2020, the 27 percent VAT rate will already work. So for two properties of similar size, let's say, which will be taken over in the spring of 2020, the same net price, one will be charged 5% VAT, the other 27 percent VAT. This will cause an unjustified difference in prices, which is unsuitable, and I think it will cause very serious market and social disturbances. Third, I'd like to say one more time about destroying the cafeteria system. We have given another opportunity to postpone in time to consider changing the cafeteria system. Our position remains unchanged. You have introduced a lot of cafeteria elements that are favourable to employees with the June amendment, and these problems are not being solved now, for example, with regard to players entering the match, but I do not think that this has harmed the Hungarian workers and the Hungarian trade union movement the most. We ask you to consider, by tomorrow's final vote, whether you will withdraw from this proposal and initiate further negotiations, I hope, with the Hungarian trade unions in order to save the cafeteria system. Thank you.
u2018-11-12-367	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a statement within the time frame available. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-368	Mr President, Dear House, There's not enough time frame for a two-minute period, but it's enough for a reaction. I would like to express the fact that it is also true for businesses in the county of Veszprém that the total tax rate for companies is still at a brutally high level, my fellow Member. I would like to say that this level started at 52,4 per cent, and they were able to reduce it to 46,5 per cent, which is still a record in regional terms, and the source is the MNB's competitiveness report. So if you are arguing with this, then you can argue with President György Matolcsy. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-369	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-12-370	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Let me first summarise the amendments made to the detailed debate and then respond briefly to the speeches made by its Members. On 19 October 2018, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill relating to EU obligations and amending certain tax laws on the subject of tax administration. Only two amendments were tabled during the debate. One of them intends to eliminate the changes adopted in spring to transform the cafeteria system. Since this initiative is contrary to the Government's intentions, we cannot support it. The other intention to amend the temporary provision relating to housing tax would maintain the 5% tax rate on the sale of new residential immovable property without any time limit after 31 December 2019, which is not in line with the government's legislative objectives, so it is also not eligible. As regards personal income tax, the proposals supported by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee make it clear that the donation of sponsors transferred to a voluntary mutual fund member for the benefit of a private individual should not constitute other income, its tax liability should be determined in accordance with the rules governing the legal relationship in respect of which it was granted. [[21.50]] In this context, it will also be made clear that the right to be available above the tax covers all the amounts that are put into the cash register for the benefit of the volunteer member. The conditions for granting employer housing loans with interest-free or reduced interest rates for which no tax liability is required due to the interest rate reduction will be simplified. In the future, it is not necessary to examine whether the housing to be purchased, built or upgraded using the loan corresponds to the so-called eligible housing requirement. At the same time, the proposal limits the amount of the employer's loan to the same individual for the purpose of housing to HUF 10 million within five years. New tax-free items are added to the bill. Thus, the grant granted to participants in the education of nationalities will be exempt, as well as the grant granted to the Széchenyi Prize winners aged 65 and 65 in recognition of their scientific excellence. It is also tax-free to provide services at events in higher education and public education institutions and income from hospitality provided not exceeding 10 per cent of the total cost of the event. Honourable Members, The amendments, supported by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee, clarify the rules introduced in respect of the corporate tax law in relation to the harmonisation of EU legislation and group corporate tax base. It is proposed that when determining the status of controlled foreign company, it is necessary to examine whether the foreign person concerned has not carried out a genuine legal transaction. A legal transaction is considered not to be genuine if it was primarily carried out for the purpose of achieving a tax advantage and the foreign person or foreign establishment is managed from within the country. If the controlled foreign company status can be established, the tax base should be increased to the extent bound to domestic management by keeping in mind the avoidance of double taxation in such cases. In order to ensure adequate preparation time, it will also be possible to apply the existing legislation on controlled foreign companies with unchanged content for one year. On the basis of the amendment proposal, as previously mentioned, the eligibility of performers' organisations through corporation tax will cease on 1 January 2019. In connection with the closure of the scheme, it is noted that the taxpayer will continue to be entitled to tax relief or credit in accordance with the rules in force at the time the aid is granted, i.e. taxpayers who have not yet made use of these benefits will be able to obtain the full benefit in time. In the context of the elimination of the corporate tax eligibility of performing arts organisations, the amendment of the Legislative Committee empowers the Government to set a limit on support for film and visual team sports in a regulation. As regards general traffic taxation, a transitional provision has been drawn up on a proposal from professional construction organisations to ensure for a period of five years the application of a reduced VAT rate of 5 per cent to all constructions with a permanent construction permit on 1 November 2018 or construction has been notified by that date as a simple notification, provided that the sale of the property takes place by 31 December 2023. Dear House, With regard to the regulation on tax administration procedures, the amendment makes it clear, as regards risky taxpayers, that, in the case of a fixed fine or fine, the fine will be 130 per cent of the fine that otherwise applies, whereas in the case of reliable taxpayers, the fine that can be imposed is 50 per cent of the fine that otherwise applies in the case of a fixed fine or fine. In accordance with the Act on General Rules of Electronic Administration and Trust Services, from 1 July 2019 the provisions concerning the representation of natural persons may be made in the register of provisions. In this context, the amending proposal complements and clarifies the rules of the Act on Tax Administration. With effect from 1 January 2019, in proceedings before the tax authority, taxpayers may also make a declaration of representation on the territory of the State tax and customs authorities. With a view to reducing bureaucracy, the law requires that the tax authority communicates electronically with the self-employed and legal representative responsible for electronic contact in relation to his profession in all cases. On the basis of an amending proposal for the takeover of forensic enforcement tasks by the State tax and customs authorities, the State tax and customs authorities will implement new start-up cases from 1 January 2019, while the State will have enforcement powers in pending cases from 1 January 2020. With regard to the enforcement actions currently carried out by forensic executives, the bill sets out the rules under which the NAV will implement them as from 1 January 2019. The change in the legal environment affecting the tax procedure also assumed an amendment to the law on certain rules of international administrative cooperation in relation to tax and other public burdens. The amendment of the law will primarily lead to international changes aimed at fulfilling our commitments to the OECD. The fundamental purpose of the proposed amendments is to allow Hungary to communicate tax information with additional jurisdictions. If I may, I would like to respond briefly to the suggestions made by the Members of Parliament, if I may, first, to the suggestion of Mr László Varga that there were three tax packages before Parliament. Let me remind you that the tax measures adopted in the spring were those which basically contributed to the structure of the budget, thus creating its revenue leg. We already indicated at the time that laws of the type of tax administration, or amendments to the law that require an EU mandate, and that EU consultations should be preceded, could be submitted at a later date. So, as indicated in the Legislative Committee, 80-90 percent of the tax package, which is now in front of us, is asking tax procedure questions, so it is not the rules that we adopted in the spring session that are being revised or revised, but the rules on tax procedures. With regard to the amendment of the culturetao, I would like to point out to the Member that the amounts offered in 2018 can continue to be offered and allocated to certain organisations affected by culture. So anyone who may have based their future on this culture support next year can have these resources, so this year's offerings can be implemented. If reference is made by the end of this year, there will be no restrictions on this, and the rules will be changed from 1 January 2019. With regard to the VAT rate of 5%, I would like to point out that this VAT reduction was very badly targeted. As mentioned in the debate before the Legislative Committee, foreigners, investment buyers who bought their most, third and fourth apartments received this low VAT rate as well as those who bought apartments with a normally reasonable housing requirement. We therefore believe that this expensive discount system should not be maintained, but rather that it is justified, for example, through the CSOK and to maintain a much more targeted, much better targeted discount system. I would also like to point out what has been said here on several occasions in the parliamentary debate that there has been no consultation with the individual trade unions on the amendment of the cafeteria, and I personally took part in three consultations with the representatives of the trade union. We also discussed this issue several times during the VKF meetings in the summer period, and I can say that there is far from a unified position on the trade union side or on the future of the cafeteria system. You can already see, however, that everyone agreed that the system should be simplified, that an extremely cizellated and complex system was developed in this area anyway. There is no consensus on what this simplicity should cover. We believe that benefits should be supported through the cafeteria system that affect consumption circles, where appropriate. Therefore, it is not the consideration of day-to-day activity in this area that should be supported, but the recreation, the renewal of human resources. We therefore believe that Hungarian workers do not need vouchers, but they need fair wages. That is why we believe that this area is worth changing. At the end of my time, a very brief response to the suggestion of Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, that 9 percent of the tao is only for the big ones. I would like to stress that the kata and the kiva, as the Member mentioned, are specifically the types of taxes that we have planned for the little ones. The kata already has more than 300,000 taxpayers, in my mind 28 500, so in this way we can give the little ones discounts that are much more competitive than 9 percent of the Tao system. I think it is worth following the rules of the Kiva in this respect. One last thing about the cafeteria system: it has also been said here that we think that instead of a voucher, workers should be paid wages. On the question of Mrs Potochanya, that the representatives of the profession cannot prepare for the changes, let me also point out that non-extinguishing rules have been adopted. [[22.00]] So the spring package of measures contained tax measures on which the budget was based, and in the autumn we discussed procedural issues before Parliament. I don't think that would make it difficult for the profession to prepare. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-12-371	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Péter Ovádi, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked to speak after the agenda. The taste of the countryside is 5 years old this year with the title Bakony Expo. I give you the floor.
u2018-11-12-372	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the fifth time, Bakony Expo, which is increasingly popular year after year, has been held. I have mentioned several times how lucky I feel, since I can represent my home and the people who live there in one of the most beautiful counties in the country, the Bakony and Balaton. At the same time, I often encounter observations that the attraction and reputation of Lake Balaton will put Bakony in the background, as well as its attractions and treasures. These treasures were presented to the dream of the Bakony Expo. It is a huge success that the exhibitors rushed to the places in seconds, and compared to the 66 exhibitors five years ago, around 140 Veszprém county and local ancestors offered their products this year. It is a great joy and pride that Veszprém Arena can be filled not only during sporting events and concerts, but also serves as a venue for other events, since the Bakony Taste Fair has now become a tourist attraction of Veszprém. The event is an excellent example of cooperation and importance, with the focus of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, since the Expo is working for a common goal from the organisation of the event to the last moment of its implementation. At the event supported by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, the countryside, all the elements of rural life, all the characteristics can be found from the smallest producers to the most prestigious restaurants, chefs, from sport to culture, from tradition to the latest technology. Several vendors from the 1st constituency of Veszprém county also represented themselves with various products. At the same time, they offer not only their own goods, but also proudly represent the settlement from which they came. For example, Bakonyna, Italian village, Tés, Hajmáskért, Nemesvámos or Herend were present, and of course there were exhibitors from Veszprém. Every year more and more people arrive at the event, this year nearly 17 thousand visitors were introduced to the gastronomic and folk cultural traditions of the Bakony landscapes. Apart from the stores of county and local ancestors, visitors were able to meet various crafts in an interactive way. Five years ago, when the event was dreamed, the aim was to create a forum where ancient producers working in the area of the city and buyers seeking high quality products could meet. It is often difficult for people living in larger settlements to obtain high-quality culinary products, and it is difficult for producers to find a suitable opportunity to sell goods. This is the space filled with this special exhibition in Bakony. Of course, the offer of the Expo could not have missed the presentation of our national priorities and of the Hungaricums. The area's typical flavours, valuable recipes, kitchen practices and culinary delicacies were waiting for visitors. In the family-friendly programs, all age groups found the right entertainment for them, which is especially important in 2018 in the year of families. The youngest could pass the time in a playhouse, or they might have been at a shepherd's test. The petting zoo was a big favourite. Visitors who wanted to compete could take part in the rogue five rehearsals. Ladies and gentlemen, The promotion and transfer of the cultural heritage of the Bakony region has always been a priority in my work. To succeed, the city and the countryside must work together. Veszprém and its surroundings can only succeed if they can show strength and complement each other in unity. In recent years, close cooperation between the county seat and its countryside has been established, an example of which is Bakony Expo. I would also like to thank the organizers and dreamers of the event for their excellent work, as they are tirelessly working to surpass themselves every year. They successfully attract increasing numbers of people regardless of gender and age, contributing to improving the reputation of the countryside and the region. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-12-373	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech:.How much longer? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-374	Mr President, Dear House, How much longer? Our follow-up series on the agenda is about concrete experiences, concrete, real life situations, situations where we are invited to eviction events, we appear there, and we try to improve the situation of families who, if possible, are in an impossible situation outside their own fault or due to excesses of their executives. It is an honor for me to present my group not only with Andrea Varga-Damm, but also with other fellow Members. But I would like to reach back to 2010, when the entire Jobbik faction in the Budafok-Budaörs region was trying to protect a Hungarian family who was not protected by anyone else in that situation. This year, we have encountered countless humiliating situations, such as the attempt to collect the same claim twice on a woman in Soroksár. We met with a case where they were legally planning to put the owner of the site and property on the street, and, by the way, they threw one of them on the street after he proved his point, and he didn't get any help. Indeed, we also witnessed a case in Komárom-Esztergom with my fellow Members Tibor Nunkovics and Zoltán Magyar in Bajót, where the suspicion of counterfeiting of documents was quite strong, so our local activists managed to obtain legal representation for the family. I am very confident that at the next trial, it will be revealed that the elderly uncle, the miner who spent decades working very hard in physical work, cannot be turned out of his last fortune, which is a worse building at the end of a street. At the same time, these real-life situations give us the power to make these decisions when we vote in Parliament, and when we press a button, we can make them with real experiences. We did the same at the time of the migration crisis when, at the Parliament's level of State Secretary, we were told that there was no migration crisis in relation to Hungary. We have already indicated that in those months, typically by the groups of Albanians in Kosovo, an invasion, conscious population exchange started, and if we do not pay attention, the end of this population exchange plan will be the elimination of the Hungarian countryside and the emergence of larger masses here. Therefore, we have not only been able to be present in person during the incident in Röszke, and we can therefore say that those who have obviously defended the Hungarian border deserve protection in this case as well. But we were there in the outskirts of Magyarkanizsa, Röszke, Ásotthalom, and speaking to dozens of those involved, we could see what the migration issue was really about. At the moment, however, we see that another process, the process of making Hungarian citizens impossible in Hungary, is legalized. So the government acts rhetorically against the external threat, but at the same time lets this financial system and its abusive members loot the masses of which tens of thousands of masses are destined to be evicted in a legal way. We have to say, although recent changes in rules have undoubtedly occurred that last week, different representatives of Jobbik were invited to 5 eviction events, i.e. five eviction events. We do not appear in these events in a self-proclaimed way, we are invited here, we were invited to Pope, we were invited to three locations in Budapest, and I would like to say that the victims of the eviction in Gyula also asked for help because they did not receive any help from anywhere else. [[22.10]] And this tragic fact is that it is not for opposition representatives, not for defenders, not for civilians to resolve this situation, it should be resolved here in Parliament with well-targeted laws, forinting at the rate of admission, imposing an eviction moratorium, if any, by tomorrow morning. Because if my fellow Members had seen last week's revival of the abuse enforcement force, how much more locations they had appeared than in previous months, they would have been amazed. I do not invite you personally to such an event because I trust your humanity, and that if you see what is happening, how many violations occur only in such a case, you will certainly have a very different opinion, if appropriate, on the question to your own bosses, how much longer. I can promise you, if the eviction tsunami continues in the spring, we will be more organized there, and we will also stand with the victims. These appearances are not against anyone, not the Government of Hungary, not the Executive Chamber or the notaries, although we criticize all of their activities. But for the Hungarian people, for the sake of the Hungarian people here, in this room, we all have a dog duty to be there, to stand there. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-375	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To speak after the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group:. Churchill promised blood, sweat, tears. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-12-376	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's right, Churchill promised blood, sweat, tears to England, the Fidesz, during the campaign, and before that, much nicer things to Inner and South Somogy, the thing is that it didn't turn out to be anything, but tears, blood and sweat all the more. Last week I attended an event in Barcson, held in honor of the 150-year-old Pécs-Barcs railway, with the involvement of renowned university teachers, economic history, social history experts, and the contrast that was outlined there between the past, the glorious past and the very sad present. The fact is that at the time, some 150 years ago, the disadvantage that the river Drava was only sailing to Barcs was able to turn it to their advantage in South Somogy, and thus Barcs could become a transhipment place, a transhipment place, in a modern way it could be said that it was a logistics centre, an intermodal centre. They have very cleverly combined rail and river freight transport possibilities, and they have come to realize that this coordinated freight transport can be an outbreak point in this area. That's why they said it started out as Chicago, and then it became Barcs. 150 years ago, they knew very well that this transport infrastructure meant development, competitiveness, improvement in quality of life, economic development, and the fact that the southern and internal parts of the county were connected to the country's blood circulation, so much so that there was a storage capacity of three thousand wagons on the shore of Dráva, a mill capacity was built there that produced flour of such quality that even Scotland was supplied corn flour, which was shipped from Romanian and Bulgarian areas on the Danube, and then up on Dráva. But I can say that there was also a hundred thousand pig fattenings, and the town had a theatre before Kaposvár, the county centre. By the way, the trade itself was 2.5 times higher than Osijek's, the sales of the now 100 thousand Osijek at the time, so it can be said that the capital of Drava was Barcs at the time. Then came Trianon, the Cold War period, and indeed communism, when in 1968 they began to eliminate the wing lines, Barcs-Kaposvár, and then Barcs-Nagyatád- and then in 2006 Barcs-Sellye section. It is rightly felt, in this way, that the inhabitants of small towns or towns belonging to my constituency would have been buried alive by successive governments. This has had its result, since, among the 276 regions of the European Union, South Transdanubia is in the 10th worst position in the back, and my colleague Dániel Somogy County Z. Kárpát talked a lot about demographic space here, if that is true somewhere, then Somogya, Hungary, is slowly liquidating itself, since the county with 368 thousand souls in 1960 now has barely 300,000 inhabitants. Those three districts are the districts of Csurgo, Nagyatádi and Barcsi, which make up the southern part of the county, even though they are in a much worse situation, since the population loss here is about one percent. Barcs' population of 12,500 people in 2001 is now barely more than 10,000 souls, so one in six people disappeared from the city. We feel that slipping down is in fact irreversible now, and that South and Internal Somogy is dying more and more rapidly, as if this region had been permanently described up there, this region is regarded as a backyard by governments as a kind of cumulatively disadvantaged area. The promises made here on the government side are very inflected. On 27 October 2014, Minister of State Fó Nagy replied to one question and said that the preparation of the section between Barcs and Pécs M60 will be completed by 18:00, then they will begin to build the motorway and the road 68 between M7 and Barcs will also be renewed. The fact is that this has not become anything, and without major investments and targeted development policy, without these intentions, it must be said that the settlement structure, the geographical features that determine the existence there, poor transport links, predestining the further marginalisation of this region. What I want, ladies and gentlemen, is for the government to pay attention, and once Barcs started out as Chicago, not to become Detroit, the Detroit, which was once a flagship of American industry, but now it's down to a third of its population, and it's become a huge ghetto. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-377	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for a speech with the title: "Everything Back." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-378	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Yes, everything backwards, this concerns the case and the decision that may have been one of the biggest changes in recent days, which could affect the situation of the social sphere or the disabled. It was clear to everyone that the state that the government produced in 2012 by changing and changing the situation of disabled pensioners and disabled pensioners went in the same direction, in order to shape the rules as a way to get as many people out of this care as possible. On the one hand, a basic pension rights and a pension rights relationship have been transformed into a social benefit, so that a lot of people are deprived of their prospects, future, predictable opportunities, and exposed to a threat, an event dependent on the occurrence of an alternative option, these were so-called re-qualifiers, with which all of their livelihoods, entirely human fates fell apart, and the worst circumstances were those involved. But what's behind it? The Curia referred to the Constitutional Court in one of the cases before it, referring in particular to an infringement of the law, namely, to a provision contrary to the international treaty. So the Curia has turned to the Constitutional Court to examine the legal status, and in this case to establish that the international treaty is contrary to Hungarian law and Hungarian practice, and indeed to what it is in conflict with; the right to property of the European Convention on Human Rights conflicts with what is included in the Hungarian legislation. It was amended in 2012, as everyone knows, the legislation on the care of people with disabilities, and not only this, but also the Nefmi regulation behind it, which actually affected disabled people and invalids badly. To see in its volume and number how much this problem has been: 180,000 people are affected by this change, which has taken place with the change of law, and by the way, according to the current figures, it is safe to say that at least 50,000 disabled people who have already been transferred and transferred to social care were retired. [[22.20]] They practically lost their right to their own property, as the Constitutional Court stated, since the fact that they received pension and pension-like care meant essentially a security and predictability for them. On the other hand, the government shifted them to an uncertain situation dependent on a social care system. What's really hurt? It is the environment created by incomplete regulation, because although the law created what to do, how to call again, invite the invalids into a review, how to reclassify them, and how to move them to another state, it did not create the possibility that those who had acquired their rights before 2012 could not enforce the fact that they had not improved their condition. There was no kind of continuity, neither the state nor the party could explain what their change was about. There have been bizarre cases, everyone remembers, someone's health status hasn't changed due to lack of limbs or any other physical disability. These are the qualities that don't change. In comparison, however, the rating was found to be practically better assessed by the deterioration of their condition or condition and to have fallen away from the pension-like benefits they had received. But that there were more bizarre situations than that, a lot of people know that. Since 2012, this has been a very serious and tense topic. And what the result might be, because this is also very important, we need to talk about it. What can be the result of current unconstitutionalism and international law violations? Well, the consequence may be that the government not only has to draw up a new legislation, a new legislation for which it has been granted a deadline, although I would add, if housing savings banks could have been ploughed in 32 hours, then why can't it be done immediately by exceptional procedure. We can close the condition here, we know why, because it's not urgent for the government. But, fellow Members, the state will have a duty to uphold. The state has to pay, it has to be able to stand in front of the people and say that I can guarantee the damage I've caused. Ladies and gentlemen, At least 50,000 people have been affected by the current regulations. That's why we say it, and that's why it's brave to say it all back to those who have suffered damage. Those who have been harmed by the legislation and the resulting shortcomings must be brought to justice, given back what the state has taken, what the government has saved them, and once again their right to property, ultimately their right to a pension. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-379	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition, spoke with a title on two World Wrestling Championships. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2018-11-12-380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Recently, between 20 and 28 October, there was a wrestling World Championship in Budapest, and I would like to make a post-scheduled comment on this. This World Wrestling Championship ended with a gold medal, but I would like to mention not this World Wrestling Championship, but the very successful World Wrestling Championship of 60 years ago, which was the first time in Hungary. That world championship was a great Hungarian success. Despite my personal acquaintance, despite the age difference, my friend Imre Polyák has become world champion in lightweight weight. Imre Polyák was born in 1932, and unfortunately he hasn't been with us for eight years. He played sports at Újpest Dózsa, so he was a police officer for 18 years, in the district where Parliament is, served at the V. district police station. He went to a police academy and a gymnastics college. He was a coach. From 1965 he was the coach of Újpest Dózsa, later the head of the wrestling department and expert advisor. In 1982, he retired as a member of the Ministry of Interior. He started wrestling when he was 17, and according to his own statement, he actually became a wrestler by accident. At the London Olympics in 1948, Gyula Bóbis, Miklós Szilvásy, started this with a great result. But fortunately for all of us, in the autumn of 1948 a wrestling class was set up in Lajosmizsa, where he lived. He started going there with his brother, and after a year he moved to the capital, where he continued in Újpest Dozsa. Two years later, he won second place at the Berlin College World Championship. A year later, in 1952, he won a silver medal at the Helsinki Olympics. Then he became a champion in Hungary 12 times and won three World Championships. After the three World Championships, the most well-known of all is that he won the silver medal in three consecutive Olympics, Melbourne, Rome and Helsinki, and in 1964 in Tokyo, at the age of 32, at the fourth Olympics, he could stand at the highest level of the podium. Hungarian athlete of the year in 1958 and 1962, Hungarian wrestler of the year in 1964. In 2000, he became the wrestler of the century. In 2003, he was elected to the wrestling hall of fame in Oklahoma. I was honored to be able to recommend the title of National Sportsman, which was accepted by my luck, and in 2004 he received this award from the then Minister of Sport, Ferenc Gyurcsány. He was more proud of this title than many European championships, world championships and Olympic championships. In 1995, the MOB took over the Olympic gold ring, the MOB merit order in 2005. In 1994 he received the middle cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, and in 1996 the gold medal of the President of the Republic. He was a citizen of nook posthumus. In memory of the World Championship in Budapest 60 years ago, her husband achieved this great achievement there, she thought that she would be kind to the World Championship now with a precious gift and offer a work that was made personally by Imre Polyák as Olympic Champion. He thought that they would be happy to accept this and offer it to the most effective Hungarian athlete. He thought that his offer would be welcomed. However, the widow did not account for the president of the wrestling association, who was the fist of the national cooperation system, Szilárd Németh, who refused the prize offered. We can only guess why. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-12-381	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, MSZP Group also spoke after the agenda. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-12-382	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You can hear the news from Sajó Valley year after year, when this time of the year comes, about the very unhealthy air. This is what happened last week, because, for example, in Miskolc, the mayor of the local government ordered a degree of information on the smogri tax. I, from year to year, in part, in this House, have, in some other ways, a number of proposals, and I think that many of the stakeholders, too, are making such proposals in order to put an end to this otherwise incredibly harmful state of health. As I said, a lot of damage to health and many deaths can be caused directly by air pollution in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. This problem is also very serious in other parts of the country because of its geographical characteristics. For example, by ordering the level of information, the Miskolcs learned last week that there was a problem. Previously, in recent years, there have been portals and websites that could be obtained practically up-to-date data from hour to hour, not only for particulate matter, but also for nitrogen oxides. We're seeing less and less of these. It's very difficult to access them on the Internet today. I think that's a very bad way to go. Let us not forget that when an information degree is ordered by a local government, it is obviously a permanent process lasting for two days, whether it is values exceeding the health limit of well over 150 per cent, in the case of an alert step we are talking about two consecutive days of a health limit exceeding 200 per cent, and obviously that the weather forecast that this situation will become permanent. Therefore, it is only when a very serious problem has already been identified that the population is informed of such outliers today. [[22.30]] The Parliament could take a lot of initiatives to reduce the damage. Many of these have been said in recent years, but I see that almost nothing in the government's policy is integrated into these proposals. A comprehensive retail car exchange action should be launched, promoting the exchange of old cars that do not comply with EU standards, or the issuance of residential bonuses, encouraging the exchange. But the biggest problem is that, where appropriate, the vehicle stock of public transport companies is the most serious pollutant. I say this by saying that in the region, in particular Miskolc, the wheat square, in the vicinity of the Volán Station, is usually the most miserable data. So the state should also sweep and change in this respect in its own home. That would be worth spending tens and hundreds of billions. The promotion of heating modernisation and the replacement of outdated boilers is virtually cancelled, or minimal amounts can be seen in the form of ad hoc tenders. That's another big problem. The insulation of residential buildings could reduce emissions. After 2010, the Orbán government liquidated the panel reconstruction programmes. In Miskolc, for example, much of the apartments and panels have been renovated in this way, but since then, no new applications have been opened, even though the population would have expected this. So the most important thing in terms of reducing emissions and reducing emissions from heating would be to have less heating. To this end, such energy modernisation programmes should finally take a substantial part in the interests of the population. Last thing I want to say is a proposal on which I have already mentioned several times. Researchers at the University of Miskolc have developed a smogkém during a specific research process. It is an innovative invention that, as a symptomatic treatment, can very quickly release contaminated air from such pollution stumps into higher air masses. It's a symptomatic treatment, but it's also very important. Such innovative inventions and proposals for a real solution to the Smog issue should be supported. That is why I have proposed that there should be budgetary resources for this, especially for Miskolc, which should be addressed in a new section of the Modern Cities programme. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-12-383	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
