u2018-09-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. Thank you very much. I'd like to welcome you. The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay will be taking part in this meeting. I welcome all of you, all of our dear guests, and everyone who's watching our day. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Gergely Arató applied for a pre-meeting speech from the DK Group on the situation of children with special educational needs and integration, learning and behavioural difficulties. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In early September, in Kossuth Square, the Cseve Group, the group that fights for children with special educational needs, for children with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties, bringing together their parents, and which wants these children to receive those benefits, the help, the development, the education they are entitled to according to the laws in force and the rights of children. Unfortunately, although they were invited, the representatives of the Ministry were unable to attend this event, so I agreed to bring their views to this House, to be their voice, to tell them what is causing them problems. To understand the size and severity of the problem, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that according to statistics, more than 80,000 children are now considered as having a specific educational need; this means about every twentieth child in public education. So every 20th child needs extra support and help. Sadly, however, parents report that in many cases these children will not receive this support. We are talking about children who live with some kind of disability or disadvantage, who are autistic, who are sick, who have some sort of partial disability, and who need to learn in a school environment that allows their development. It is not the legislation that is the problem, which I would like to point out, my fellow Members. It is broadly agreed that legislation dealing with this issue will resolve this situation more or less reassuringly, even if, of course, there is no perfect regulation, but the legislation is not primarily a problem, there is a problem with practice. The problem is that although they get the correct diagnosis, the expert committees determine what development is needed, but in reality it is not available in many places in the country. We've talked about a shortage of teachers in this House several times. According to your first leaked report, and then denied it, for example, only 166 teachers are missing from the travel pedagogical network; this is not a coincidence, it is one of the most difficult professions within the teaching profession, which has neither adequate financial and moral appreciation nor proper equipment and organisation. Therefore, there are no teachers in schools or in the appropriate network, or there is not enough medical educators available to be precise, as a result of which parents are forced to use development, development for their own children on a private basis, which means, of course, that they have to take on a very significant burden, while in many cases they cannot take up work precisely because of their children's problems, and they have to carry out this very important task for the pitifully low care fee that is often mentioned here in Parliament. Similarly, although a host school is often designated, a large part of the host schools do not have the conditions in practice to help the child in question. Therefore, parents are forced to take the child out of school for a large part of the time, go to homeschool status, or look for a private school, or take their child to a remote state facility to get the development they need. The Cseve Group has made six concrete proposals in order to help this situation. For example, it is proposed that if the State is unable to carry out its tasks, it should contribute to the costs of the parents. It is proposed that there should be clear protocols for the evaluation and examination of students with special educational needs. They recommend that the state provide territorial care, even by transferring resources to where the number of students with their own educational needs is increasing. Dear Secretary of State, Your loser government is fighting a losing war with Brussels unnecessarily. I suggest you don't worry about that. Deal with the country's substantive problems and seek solutions to help, for example, these children, these students. And I know you're gonna tell me the last eight years, and I'm gonna have to give you a shameless praise for the government's activities so far, but let's talk a little bit about solving the problem, please. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-09-18-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-18-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have concluded that it is completely unnecessary to argue for Hungary's sovereignty in Brussels; we do not think it is unnecessary at all. We believe that the basis for all this, whether it is for children with SNI to have more attention, not for the country to devote its resources to others, or for teachers to do nothing else, should not be concerned with integrating young people from remote continents that are difficult to integrate. The prerequisite for these is to protect sovereignty, so that Hungary can face the current difficulties in all areas, in social, health and education as well as in the current problems. You have also said that there is a task ahead of us, which has grown explosively over the last twenty years, because it has never grown so much in Hungary before, thanks, of course, to better diagnostics and better school conditions, so there is such a problem, which exists, and you say that Hungary should not defend itself, do not defend its sovereignty. [[Gergely Harvesto: I didn't say that...]] but let this problem be... He said that it is a loser to fight for Hungary's sovereignty in the European Parliament, that is what you said, honourable Member. [[Gergely Arató: I didn't say that, my dear Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] We believe that one of the most important tasks of the depositaries of Hungarian sovereignty, the parliament and government elected by the people, is to defend Hungary's sovereignty. But I would like to get to the real problem that we really need to deal with, and we are also fighting for Hungary's sovereignty to deal with this problem, not to deal with the problem of immigration, as many Western European schools are struggling with it. You know and know that the proportion of integrated education and care increased noticeably in Hungarian schools between 2010 and 2017, by 10%, from 61 percent to 71 percent. Today, 3875 of our educational institutions are doing integrated education, which, as I said, is 71 percent, which is a beautiful, growing, growing number. Appreciation to all those who have done so in recent years: teachers, head of institutions, and pilots alike. As you have said or suggested, there are at least two types of methods, or there are two types of relationships, as medical educators and consultants can work in educational institutions: on the one hand, when they are employed by the educational institution itself, and on the other hand, the network of travel educators and travelers. This was clarified in 2015 because there were a lot of unregulated or unclear parts here, and this came into force on 1 September 2017, so we have also tried to look at the best interests of these students and families in the legislation in recent years. But not only have we clarified the legislation, developed it according to the scientific and pedagogical expectations of the age, but we have also expanded the training, since now medical pedagogical training is carried out in seven locations in Hungary, and the training of a conduktor works at the András Pető Faculty at Semmelweis University. We have extended the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship to be trained as a medical educator, just in order to provide additional financial resources so that more and more health educators can work in the future. [[9.10]] The number of people employed in the teaching profession is quite objective, honourable Member. This, when your period ended, was 5695. Today, do you know how much this is? He didn't say anything about it: 9435. We raised this number from 5695 to 9435. You could have acknowledged the advantages of this 65 percent increase and thanked the nearly 3,000 people who took on this important task. Obviously, the extension of the government training system, the wage increases and the extra scholarship were also involved. So now in Hungary the system itself is as differentiated as in other countries of Europe, and the training system is more diverse, and the regulation is more modern than it was a few years ago. Pedagogical services perform a wide variety of tasks, which is why we have been tasked with strengthening these specialist services. The point was for every county to have a proper professional service for the first time. It was geographically uneven in the past, not sufficiently professionally controlled; this was done. Then, in the second step, we sought to have a member institution in every district, and this also happened, and to have additional establishments in as many as possible. This is also on the right track, as there are currently 300 educational training activities in Hungary. The number of children in the pedagogical training facility is much wider than in the SNI round, since a circle of nearly half a million has grown by 57 thousand since 2010. We have launched several projects for the same purpose that you thought was important: to strengthen the role of public education, we count HUF 7 billion, to strengthen the role of public education as a supporter of HUF 5 billion. We want HUF 3.7 billion for the development of MTMI capabilities and competences; and perhaps the most important thing we can agree on is HUF 5.7 billion for the cross-sectoral development of early childhood intervention. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And these are the good news of the future for all families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking in front of the agenda from the LMP Group, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn applied: a 25% wage increase for hospital workers! It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-18-5	Mr President, Dear House, All the nurses in the intensive care department at the lip hospital have resigned. I'm afraid that sentence will be heard many times in the coming period, but the location will be different. Patients will not be able to provide care in hospitals because of a lack of expertise. Most small, rural hospitals face similar problems. The number of employees will only be provided until the current workers retire. Until then, after a few years of practice, he is located abroad or in a private health institution, or worse, he leaves the field and chooses another occupation. Unfortunately, for a nurse today, almost any chain of stores can offer a much better perspective than the vast majority of hospitals operating in the maintenance of the state. The situation is similar to that of general practitioners, where there are many, more than 300 unfilled districts. As a result of the wave of retirement within a few years, one third of the country can remain without a general practitioner. Even though most small hospitals in rural areas try to fill their classes with professionals, the small amount of income they offer cannot meet the required number. Hospitals in Budapest are also facing serious problems, so let's think about the South-Pest Hospital in case of employees leaving the IKEA. There, as an outside entrepreneur, they can hire nurses for higher hourly rates, so that they can be kept operational for the time being. But in the countryside, it's much less feasible. The situation will be even worse if private health develops at this rate, and its considerable labour-absorption power can also be projected. The increase in wages in health care seems to be only significant because the base was very low. In the long term, it will be difficult to believe that wages in health care are at the right level. Evacuation of hospital staff status will show the opposite. Unfortunately, we're getting closer. It is not possible to leave the current pay table this way, because full classes can first remain without nurses, and then the same will be done in other professions. We make a fatal mistake if we simply ignore the people at the bottom of the pay sign. The members of the LMP fraction have been submitting budget amendments for years, which are being voted against, even though, in addition to the wage increases that have taken place, there is a need for additional wage arrangements of 300 billion in healthcare. According to the current government schedule, an 8 percent wage increase will not be sufficient to address the problem. Smaller rural hospitals will be eliminated first, and then there will be nowhere else to obtain health care if the situation does not settle down soothingly. The other thing that's very important is the treatment of infertility. These days, my colleague Peter Hoppál, who is unfortunately not here right now, based on his Facebook post, seems like we may not be doing enough to bring a child into the world. As involved, here's what I can tell you about this. I'm sure you all know that fertility treatment is not free. Although the flask program and the intervention itself cost money only in private hospitals, the drugs themselves are a significant burden for families. By the time a family gets to the point of submitting their adoption application, they'll be spending millions on drugs in many cases. I've been down this road myself, I'm an adoptive parent, and it's not easy to go through this. I think that a number of measures should be taken to help couples have children, either through adoption or through health care, through their own children. One of the great obstacles to adoption is that what a child becomes adopted is a lot of time. The guardianship office waits six months if the life - giving parent doesn't apply, and only then will he declare the child to be adopted. Just one interest in Facebook, and the six months will start again. I suggest that instead of condemning or labeling these people who do not have children, we take measures that will help them. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The secretary-general, Bence Rétvári, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I'd like to correct a few facts and then respond substantially to what you said at the end of the adoption rules. First of all, the lip thing. This is about the fact that a new lung care facility opened up 10 kilometers from his lip hospital to the Hungarian state health system, and a part of the staff of his lip hospital ten kilometers away, went to another health care facility, a public-funded facility, and healed the patients there. Not everyone quit at the same time, as you said quite exaggeratingly, only the head of the department there went over with a few colleagues. [[Lajos Rig: Head of Nursing.]] I stress that to another state institution, elsewhere, to treat patients publicly. The hospital has also solved this type of situation, since, on the one hand, the emergency department can continue to operate in the lip hospital by hiring qualified and motivated nurses from other departments. I would like to ask that, where health care systems and health services are expanding and people living in and around Ajka, you too should be glad that health care in the area has finally improved and not try to give false news or bad news on the basis of untruths. I mentioned a lot of things. Indeed, the issue of health pay is a very important issue. Allow me to give you one or two specific examples. If I look at what a health worker's salary is, let's say, in the case of a worker, it means not only basic salary, but also the mobile wage elements, so if I count the allowances on average, then in 2010 with a 4-6 year law-related, OKJ-qualified E-class, II. He made 159 thousand forints at the rate of payment. That's what I'm saying, basic salary, plus moving wages. So the HUF 159 thousand is now 309,000. If you look at the fact that a specialist already had a higher routine, about 20 years of law, and how much he earned in 2010, it is also basic salary, plus mobile wage elements, so on-call allowance, others, he earned an average of 364 thousand forints in 2010, together with allowances, and now he earns 842,000 forints. [[9.20]] In the case of a paramedic, the average wage has increased from 314 thousand forints to 626 thousand, and it could still be classified as the rescue driver or other specialist examples, which show that we have managed to start a noticeable increase here. We do not think that we have finished, the 207,000 forints that we have raised in the previous two years, for example, in gross amounts on basic salary, are noticeable, perhaps the biggest health wage increase since the change of regime. We would like to continue this in the coming years, but most of all, as you pointed out, it is important to continue this increase in wages with the nurses, the workers. Prax funding has also been increased in primary care, with 70 percent higher funding for a practice today, and 73.9 percent more than before. This means that every month the proceeds of the practice are several hundred thousand forints more than they were in 2010, and in the budget we spend not 79 billion forints but 137 billion for the financing of the basic supply. We've launched two applications, you know, the settlement and practice contest. Both are grants. 179 applicants won the establishment contest and 167 applicants won the practice contest in recent years. With this, we were able to provide GP care in the vicinity of about half a million people. Thanks to this program, half a million more patients or healthy people have their own home doctor in their own area. What you mentioned about the adoption: you know that in recent years the number of adoptions and adoptions in Hungary has increased significantly, hundreds of children can enter loving families. But indeed, it is a matter of thought that if a person raises his child not himself, but put it in public care, in public education, and once every six months, the Facebook message may not be enough to communicate with his child, so once he goes in with his child, talks with him for an hour, and all he cared about in six months, then that child really cannot be declared adopted, because that one-hour conversation was done in six months. In recent years, the administrative authorities have made several decisions, taking into account the interests of the child, which declared the child to be adopted, but a year and a half ago, there was a second-degree decision, after which they became more restrained. To deal with this issue, I offer you a partnership. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you have any suggestions, you're welcome. It's always in the best interest of the child. Where it is indeed in the child's interest that we interpret this rule differently and interpret the concept of contact differently, and this means that for hundreds of children to enter into a loving family, then let us cooperate in this and bring together legislative changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-8	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the time frame, which is now the second time that you are significantly behind schedule. Do you know that two thirds of people consider the health situation to be the most pressing problem? Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-18-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The operation of the health care system is a non-governmental gift, the financial cover of which is created by the taxes and contributions of the working Hungarian people. Today, in Hungary, the life expectancy of matured men is 76 years, and the non-graduating age is 66 years. In the poorest small regions, men live 13.5 years shorter than in the richest regions. While in 1992 we spent 6 per cent of GDP on health care, we spent only 4.7 per cent in 2015, while the share of private healthcare expenditure increased to over 30 per cent. So anyone who can pay the price can live longer in Hungary. In the 2018 edition of Eurostat's regional yearbook, it is enough to see only mortality rates related to chronic diseases and cancers. Hungary has a sad performance in both respects. The 2018 publication also states how abnormally bad Hungarian data is. In separate 42 pages, chronic diseases have a high mortality rate in Hungarian regions due to malignancies, heart disease, circulatory diseases, chronic lower respiratory tract diseases, chronic liver diseases, diabetes. The EU average in this respect is 261.7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, while in the Hungarian regions it is spread among 337-360 cases. The death rate related to chronic diseases is the highest in the Northern Hungary region across Europe, but the North Great Plain region is also in the fifth place. Let's see why this is so. Hospitals are confronted with a build-up of debt once a year, given the government's unwillingness to provide the necessary financial resources for healing. Compared to the 2007 level, however different the government propaganda says, more than 1500 billion HUF is missing from health care. The use of emergency services is so great that it cannot be handled with sound and sound physics, said the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, István Éger. Today, we need at least 600 people in emergency rooms in Hungary, but there are fewer than 140 people working there. There is not a quarter of the required number, and the result is that doctors are being transferred from other departments to care for cases they are not sufficiently prepared for. However, without emergency care, patient care is failing. We can see the first signs of this, since patients are often kept waiting in the emergency room for four to five hours, but now the waiting time of 12 hours or even 24 hours is not uncommon. However, the lack of a doctor or nurse is much greater. In the county of Nógrád, for example, all specialist qualifications are regarded as a shortage profession in all healthcare institutions there. The same applies, among other things, to the lips of Magyar Imre Hospital, where all the workers in the emergency department resigned these days; the speaker before me has already spoken about this problem. And such systemic health problems force many to seek a cure for their complaints in private health. I do not know if Mr Secretary of State knows who are those who use private health services as soon as possible in Hungary today. You may be surprised, but families with children. Because, for their child in Hungary today, even if they have no money, the Hungarian people are able to do everything possible to provide adequate health care to the children as soon as possible. Unfortunately, we can now see that not only at the start of the school year, so to speak, they take out an immediate loan, a loan from Hungarian families, but now they also use healthcare. Now you can also borrow money for health services. Secretary of State, I think that if a person pays taxes and contributions for a lifetime or twenty or thirty years, that is not the solution. According to Miklós Kásler, following the Ten Commandments can prevent many diseases. Then I'll tell you a few things. Just because I don't take God's name into account doesn't mean my child's pneumonia will heal. By consecrating the Lord's Day, broken bones don't boil. And if I tell you ten Our Fathers every night, my cancer won't go away, so people on the Internet tell me. And, you know, Secretary of State, there's not much prayer here, and now we should do something about health and work. You've been authorized by the people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-09-18-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to your statement before the agenda will be given by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-18-11	Thank you. I am trying to remain objective, Madam honourable Member, after your speech. You also started with the average age in Hungary. I think it is worth recalling how much the average age has increased in Hungary since 2010. For men, average age has increased from 70.5 to 72.5 years, i.e. by nearly two years, and for women with higher numbers, there is also an increase: from 78.1 to 79.2 years. So the growth is 1.1 years old. We can therefore say that the aim is to live as many years as possible and to live in health as many years as possible, and that the state is not in a bad position on a pro rata basis, since it is not only health, but obviously genetics, lifestyle and many others, however, the average age of men has increased by nearly two years since 2010. We must strive to make sure that men are as healthy as possible. With this positive change and the fact that the average age increases in Hungary to a much greater extent, more than twice as much as in the EU countries on average, the difference between the average life expectancy in the EU and the average life expectancy in Hungary was previously more than five years, and now less than five years. [[9.30]] So the difference with which Hungary was left behind is less than five years from the average age of the European Union. I think these are important achievements, and health care has a role to play, and many others have a role to play. In everything else, I think that the five national health programmes announced by the government for consultation are extremely important, because it helps to prevent these diseases and helps to avoid the development of diseases that you have referred to so early or not so severely. The national anticancer programme, the national circulatory programme, the national musculo-skeletal programme, the national mental health programme and the national children's health programme are designed to prevent disease on the one hand and to measure the capacity of care to the real needs. So much for average age and prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He says very nice words here, but I wish he would have said that even when he wanted Ferenc Gyurcsány, if I remember correctly, in exchange for the fact that he was on the posters before December 5, 2004. You could have told him that we shouldn't have taken that 600 billion forint out of the medical register, Prime Minister, because there would be a better use for healing people. Or you could have told him in your garden when you were bouncing that you shouldn't shut down the children's hospital in Swabhegy, or you shouldn't have closed OPNI. The reasons for this were also seen on Prime Minister Gyurcsány yesterday. [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Or Szabolcs Streets and Schöpf-Mere Hospital shouldn't be closed, Prime Minister. Why didn't you tell him that then? Why was your health program shutting down four hospitals across the country with national institutions? But you could have also told him that Prime Minister, we would need 16,000 beds in Hungarian hospitals. Why do they charge that 16,000 active beds? [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] Or you could have told your prime minister that there might be a need for workers in health care, not to release the 6,000 doctors and 6,000 nurses who were laid off. And those who are there should be valued financially, not to be taken away from them for a month's wages. Yet they took away a month's wages, because the telephone came for you from Brussels, that Hungarian people must be crippled, they must be sabotaged. Well, you took a month's wages from medical staff right away. And for sure, patients should avoid hospitals far from home to avoid clinics, which is why even more serious complications can arise, visits and hospital allowances were introduced to avoid hospitals and general practitioners. This was then swept away by a social referendum, and a year later you were swept away. And what certificate you had on this matter was issued by the OECD. You quoted an international statement, and I would quote it. According to this, your government was the only government in the European Union between 2003 and 2010 and, more specifically, in the OECD, so the only government in all developed countries was your government, which reduced health expenditure during this period. It's grown in every other country, and you've reduced it by yourself. And that was what we had to replace after 2010, and now the seventh largest proportion of healthcare expenditure is increasing in Hungary. In your time, Hungary was the only one where it decreased, and now it is growing in the seventh largest proportion. As a result of this, there are now 60 percent fewer doctors seeking permission to work abroad, the result is that there are more than 1,500 doctors who have applied for permission, but who also work at home, even though they have a permit. That is why we launched the wage increase programme, which is why we spend much more, HUF 650 billion more per year on health care than you intended in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Bőm Congresswoman Anett! I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that what you're doing is against house rules. In order for you to be handing out materials from anyone, not from you, you need the prior approval of the House Committee. You didn't do anything to ask permission. Now I'm asking you to gather these envelopes, please, and keep them carefully. In the corridor, the employees who asked you to distribute these envelopes have the opportunity; unfortunately, you are not in this room. Thank you very much. [[Vengeance Anett doesn't respond to the call.]] Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Ms Andrea Varga-Damm came forward from the Jobbik Group with the title "Year of the Oligarch Family." Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to the previous comment that it is my great pleasure that Parliamentary Secretary Rétvári has authorised us to take part in the modernisation of the adoption rules, because I myself have just begun adopting two heart-sick young children in the hospital in Győr, and I am already seeing what kind of Calvary I am going through. So thank you for helping us with this. But to add to the item on the agenda: in 2017, the government announced the year of families in 2018, under the midwifery of Secretary Katalin Novák. Everyone was very happy about this, because you all probably know that between 2011 and 16 the number of families in Hungary decreased by 41 thousand. However, this is a huge problem, especially without the number in it, the number of families who have emigrated but have not checked out their addresses. The aim of the announcement was to achieve a demographic stimulus, especially to focus on existing families with children, and to use all means that families in 2018 might feel that this year is really about them. Who wouldn't have been happy if it wasn't for us, all of us? Then what do we experience in this? All cultural programmes, which are regularly organised every year for some reason, have been organised under this programme. And then there's the schmuck. Indeed, it is a relief that 66,000 people have already been able to make use of it, but the problem is that CSOK's institution has increased the price of new apartments by 12 percent and used apartments by 18 percent. This meant that only rich families with three children were able to get something meaningful with it in addition to the price increase. Then there's some very sad news. Compared to demographic incentives, the number of births decreased by 2.9 percent and mortality increased by 3.9 percent. So again, unfortunately, our population has not grown, but the natural weight loss has decreased. It is true, then, that wages have increased by 13 percent, which are important in the life of a family, but a very significant percentage of the 13 percent is the increase that we can all feel. I wouldn't list the price of everything this year. All products and services that have increased over the EU level have increased. This is also important in the lives of families. And even though it was the year of families, 35 percent of families still live below the minimum living standards, and 16 percent, or 420 thousand families, live in extreme poverty. That's a great deal in a country with a population of 9 million and 700,000. In ten walks, the monthly income per person is between HUF 46 and HUF 50 000. And then we'd think that maybe we can't give you any data that's bad for families, but we can, because 1300 families have been evicted since May. Then we can ask ourselves, among ourselves, what kind of families this year is 2018. They all sense it well in this room, yes, yes, it's the year of the oligarch families, because it's amazing what the oligarch families have achieved in terms of income and wealth. Only the Csányi family has increased their wealth to 320 billion, the Ripper Stróman family is enriched by 11 million an hour, the Szíy empire has increased by 12 billion, the Garancsi family can not complain, because it has brought home 10 billion more, and the Tiborcz family thanks it, and its chest son has increased by several billion. This year, the 100 richest Hungarian assets grew by 4,000 billion, which has never been in one year, by 23 percent. And what has never been before, the richest one million has 9.86 times the income and wealth of the poorest one million people. It may be said, ladies and gentlemen, that this is demagogy, but I beg your pardon, these are all data from official data, all of which reflect reality. I hear from you every time, Secretary of State Rétvári and Secretary of State Dömötör keep coming to us with these wonderful results, which we very much appreciate, because you have to do your job, because that is why you get paid. But I'm asking you to be in these few months 2018 really is the year of families. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.40]]
u2018-09-18-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We welcome your proposals on adoption, especially when they start from practice, because I believe that our common goal and task is that this procedure is indeed in the best interests of the children. When we read here the address of your speech before the agenda, we were almost afraid that you would violate the institution of the attorney's secret, and that you would tell us certain facts and figures about the enrichment of the Simicska family here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I was never your lawyer...]] Remember that when Jobbik started posting their own poster campaign on those posters, you were looking at the handball match with Lajos Simicska at the Veszprém Arena in the VIP box. [[Intercoms and noise from Jobbik's benches.]] But that's not what happened. You weren't talking about this oligarch empire. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But as I hear the yelling of the better Members, many have taken it upon themselves, so, honourable Members, if you feel that this is for you, please yell in. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I was just talking to the congresswoman, but it looks like these are still sore wounds, they haven't been able to make fun of themselves at the faction meeting, no matter what they spilled on me. Well, let me correct some data and facts, honourable Member, from what you have said. [[Constant interruptions from the benches of Jobbik and DK. The president's ringing the bell.]] The data he quoted were real data in 2010, say, about the number of people living in extreme poverty, because at that time nearly half a million people in Hungary really lived in extreme poverty. [[Dr. István Apáti: What percentage is KDNP?]] This half-million by 2017, according to the same research validated by Eurostat, fortunately, in Hungary, the number of people living at the same time in work poverty, where the income of the family below the median income is subject to severe material deprivation, has decreased by 386 thousand. According to the methodology quoted by you, this is what means extreme poverty, and fortunately, here we see a reduction of 386 thousand. The greatest reduction in poverty factors can be seen, thank God, in the large families who have more than one child, because they had the most positive displacement. And if you look at it as a whole, from one segment or another, who is exposed to deprivation, you can see that, for example, if you look at such ordinary data, who has the money every two days to eat meat food, who does not have the money for it, the number of people who have lost 1.7 million during our administration has decreased by 1.7 million. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Is chicken tail included?]] I mentioned yesterday that the number of people who, for financial reasons, cannot go away for a week has fallen by nearly 2 million. There has also been a decrease in the number of people with outstanding debt or housing payments by more than 1 million. If we look at the majority of these factors, and who is no longer struggling, we can see that about 1.3 million people were able to get out of this daily deprivation or weekly deprivation, thank God. This is obviously part of the 750,000 more people working; it is mainly part of the family tax and contribution benefits, as it remains more than families; it is part of this free textbook, free children's meals and much more that helped these people break out of poverty. As I mentioned, more and more people can use family-type tax incentives more and more. The monthly amount of this, which they could use, was only 10 thousand forints in 2010, which is 23 500 forints a month in 2017. And if you look at all the family support in the budget, you can see that we started from less than 1000 billion, and that next year's budget is now at more than 2000 billion forints, both financial and financial support and aid in nature have increased. From the growth of the maximum ceiling of the child, which increased from HUF 102 thousand to HUF 193 thousand, by nearly 88 percent, I could say much more: the increased family discount, the home creation program. In other countries, you don't find a young person with such a discount that he gets 10 plus HUF 10 million in non-refundable and discounted loans for housing and house building related to family creation. Gyed extra, the first married person's discount, the student or graduate; the family tax relief of two children doubled in four years; the development of nursery care; the reduction of the mortgage by HUF 1 million, the reduction of the third and further children; the remission of student loans for three children; the cord program; the free KRESZ course, KRESZ-vizs-ga, free language exam. These are all billionaires' help to families, and fortunately thousands and tens of thousands of people take advantage of it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , as well as the child's six months of age paid for his or her wages. So I think that all Hungarian families with one million children can feel that they are supported by the government and are helping their everyday safety with increasing discounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-18-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The situation that's come to pass! Mr Tamás Mellar, on behalf of the Group of Dialogue, spoke before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-18-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, One of the events of the past week was the interruption of the negotiations between the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on the transformation of research institutes. There's a better part of the news that there's been a withdrawal on Saturday, that the Ministry has resigned, that it doesn't want to transform the research institutions so vehemently. But let's not have any doubts, I think they're gonna start this thing again. After that hearing, Minister Palkovic also concluded, incidentally, that the Institute of Economics should be closed, because it has low quality products that cannot be maintained any longer. I would like to ask the Minister of State on what basis the Minister has made this decision, since it is true that he is an academic, but he is not an economist, so I do not think that he can judge this. Have international institutions or experts been asked to identify the weaknesses and problems of this institute's operation? Two years ago, as a member of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, I participated in the due diligence of the Institute of Economics, which was then conducted by Attila Chikán. I like to know that the Chikán Attila, who was the minister of the first Orbán government, and the Chikán Attila who, together with János Kornai, wrote the Fidesz economic program at the beginning of the 1990s. Well, we have stated that the Institute of Economics works well, both in terms of research activities, publication activities and re-education. I would very much like to know how this very significant deterioration in this institution could have happened in two years. Or if it didn't happen, but it's just a political action, then, of course, it looks quite different. Then I must conclude that your government was worse than the communist governments in the seventies and eighties, because in that period, too, they did not love the Institute of Economics, nor did they allow their leading researchers, such as Andras Brody or János Kornai, to teach at the University of Economics of Charles Marx, but they never insisted on closing down the Institute of Economics. So you are now, I think, taking a level, but unfortunately, you have taken this level in a very wrong direction. I dare hope that they will change their very sad position, because, in the long term, scientific research and the impossibility of research life, I think will mean very serious losses to the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-09-18-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-18-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, the negotiations are under way. So we are in a process that hopefully brings out the best results, so scientific research will be the most effective for society, and, of course, in a process of transformation to highlight parts, to criticize parts is easy, but not certain, to advance. [[9.50]] I would like to reply by saying that it is likely that he said what he said to the previous era because you probably know that particular communist era better than we do here in Parliament, how it worked, what procedures were there at the time, how different institutions were abolished or created. But let me get back to the process, if possible, of the current negotiations, which is taking place in advance of the negotiations. Let me draw attention to some of the strange things. For example, it is very strange that the controversial communication that has developed around the operation of the Academy of Sciences has been characteristic in recent days. I am not thinking, first of all, that some opposition parties feel that they need to question the competence of an academic member, who, by the way, is a professor of engineering. [[Gergely Arató: In the field of public education!]] or do you think that he is doing his job without the involvement of all sorts of experts and that these experts cannot judge what steps must be taken to achieve a particular goal? I think that's naive, too, or if I wanted to be of a worse temper, I'd say malice, malice. I find it strange, however, that the Academy of Sciences first stated that it considered the negotiations with the Ministry to be interrupted before it began the next day, and then quietly published the communication on its website only a few days later on the partial agreement with the Ministry. So you can see that there are conflicting communications and news in this area. I trust him, and the latest signs show that the Academy will represent the latter constructive spirit in the new era of scientific cooperation and networking ahead of us. On the question of the future of the Academy, let me draw attention to the most important point in the past seven events, the fact that we have made substantial progress in the negotiations between the Academy and the portfolio of innovation. After all, that's the way things are. The basic negotiating documents are intended to lead to compromise solutions by generating a debate, conflicting ideas. We hope that, as a result of the negotiations, the Hungarian scientific, research, development and innovation institution system will already work in 2019 along the lines of the new coordinated resource planning. In the following year, all actors will have the opportunity to prove themselves. It will turn out that it is possible to organise science and research and development more effectively and effectively than at present. Let us not forget that, to this end, the Academy will also review the functioning of its own institutions, which, of course, we will take into account in the negotiations. Let me also say that the government has never sold a bag cat on the need to transform the scientific research system. From the outset, we have made it clear that, for Hungary's competitiveness, we consider it necessary to take stock of parallels and gaps, and to allocate resources harmoniously and appropriately. The government aims to create an effective, non-interfaceable, resource-focused, efficient structure as far as possible. For this purpose, I'm sure the Academy's leadership and you agree. It should also be noted that, before 2010, left-wing-liberal governments tried to launch so-called reforms; it is true that their ideas, the ideas of your electoral allies, were based on the bleeding and privatisation of the scientific institute network. Let me say a quote from the mouth of János Kóka at the time:, Those areas of the MTA that do not serve directly competitiveness must be made equal to the earth, said János Kóka at the time. [[Gergely Harvestó: But then he apologized! When are you gonna apologize? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We're negotiating. We are fortunate that you, along with other liberal plans, do not want to implement them and bring them here into the walls of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we are aware that in many respects the scientific sphere operates differently from public systems. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] However, let me have two thoughts on this. One is that taxpayers have to account for money. And the other is that by linking science to the exclusivity of a single form of organization, we stick to one form, we pose a real risk to science itself. That is why the transformation is taking place, which is why more efficient use of money is being made, so that science can serve society as effectively as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Szászfalvi applied for a speech from the KDNP Group entitled Appreciation of Home Care. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, There are social problems, public affairs, topics that cannot be solved simply on the basis of party logic. For example, it is not possible to solve a social challenge such as settling the situation of home caregivers and respecting home care within the framework of a simple battle. I think it goes beyond any debate that we must do everything together to help our fellow countrymen who care for their children, their loved ones, care for them, truly respect society, and significantly help to improve their situation. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Eyewielder!]] This is precisely why KDNP has kept this matter in mind over the past years and months, and that is why it has launched professional consultations and consultations with stakeholders and the Ministry of Industry, and has therefore put on its flag the goal of making the most important decisions during this autumn session in order to resolve this serious challenge as soon as possible. That is why I think that this matter can only be discussed with calm and sound judgment, not, as we heard from some of my fellow left-wing Members yesterday, in a hysterical, instructive and cynical tone, and we can reach decisions together. In particular, the speeches that we heard yesterday from the representatives of the left, who demanded that they acknowledge immediately that home care work, or, for example, the opinion of those who asked for an increase in the care fee, be taken into account. Dear House, The reason why these hysterical outbursts are not credible is because these fellow Members in 2004 and 2005 have spectacularly voted out in many cases the proposals that would have served to appreciate home care, to significantly improve and improve the situation of home care workers. I hold in my hand those proposals and Parliamentary minutes [[He's showing it to me.]] which bear witness to this. So this social problem wasn't important? So it didn't matter if 50,000 people were signed? Then were the positions of professional and civil society organisations not important? This proves that today's political hystericalisation of the left in this matter is not credible and lies. In the same way, we have heard slippages and simplifications in mentioning international examples. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is the table which analyses in detail the situation of a number of EU Member States. Let us note that there is no employment relationship anywhere, so it is not the activity of caregivers, at least certainly not in Austria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Germany, Romania and Slovakia. On the other hand, from this table, ladies and gentlemen, the rate of care allowance in these countries is not as clear as it was described yesterday by my fellow left-wing Members. Some countries have borders in 4-5-6 or 7 categories, with strict conditions, and so there is a huge spread between them, obviously according to different life situations. In many categories they receive much less than those affected in Hungary. It must be recognised that, for example, Slovakia has had a significant increase in this area this year, but, after all, there has not been an increase in care fees as originally planned for three years in relation to the minimum wage. Dear Parliament, Contrary to Balliberal governments, the civil national government has taken a number of measures that have finally made significant progress in this area: 63 percent increase in care for those in the most serious state. We dared to touch the system more radically, by which, for example, we raised the care fee from under the minimum pension. I should also mention that, although I have all due respect for the civilians concerned, there are data in yesterday's letter that are factually inconsistent with reality. [[10.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we know that the measures so far are not enough, and it is therefore important and welcome that the Government is in a continuous dialogue and negotiation with the interest protection organisations involved in this matter. The KDNP faction welcomes and supports government efforts to estimate home care. We ask the government to take all necessary steps to ensure a satisfactory management of the home care fee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Rétvári's speech before the agenda will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you for your detailed and objective, comprehensive speech. I do not wish to repeat what you have said, but allow me to say one or two things about the government's activities over the past few years, as well as the plans for the future. As you have pointed out, the government launched a consultation during the summer, and we have consulted a lot of organisations on this, and these, I must say, were mostly forward-looking, new and new proposals have come forward. You have also said that as many countries, as many types of systems, who, where, how, what legal relationship they are in, or where; the condition of the nurse, as in Hungary, which influences the amount of the care fee, is a nursing diary-like statement elsewhere; some are composed of two parts, a fixed part and a variable part of the monthly care fee. So you can't just compare one to the other. The only goal we have is to make sure that this award is clearly raised and clearly differentiated: for those who have taken on the biggest task, obviously, the maximum increase should be for those who have taken on the biggest task. In addition to the organisations whose letters were received here in the Chamber and during yesterday's day, the government has also negotiated with the National Association of Autists, the increase in the care fee and the system of the whole system, not only the award, but also the system of other public services; the National Association of People with Mental Disabilities and Aids, the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Association of Association of Associations of Associations of Limited Movements, the National Association of Deficits and the National Association of Hearers, as well as representatives of the National Association of the Siketvaks, and it is very likely that these negotiations will continue with a good part of the organizations. As to the mood or effectiveness of these: here I would like to quote the president of MEOSZ, the National Association of Disabled Associations, their own communication, which everyone can read on their website. It says that there are constructive discussions on this issue that seek a real solution. In doing so, the representatives of the affected wallets are looking forward to solving the problem. I would like to quote further on the other part of the Communication:. Interest protection welcomes the outline of the complex government action aimed at effectively solving the care fee as a result of the negotiations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are not only thinking of a one-off measure, but if the various advocacy alliances consider this to be good, then in a series of measures; not only has it provided aid in money, but also in a public service in nature and in assistance, so in a complex system in any case, because indeed, we must appreciate the everyday activities of these people. Here we have inherited a situation that the Member also pointed to when these fees were indeed unfairly low. Here our ancestors left the inheritance of 28,000 and 37,000 forints for these families. Today we are saying that those who care for their children, as you said, will not receive HUF 37,000, but HUF 58,000. But all good people agree that this amount needs to be increased further, even if we have introduced support for those who are retired, but have been caring for their children in their own families for 20 years, they will receive 50 thousand HUF of so-called distance, long-term care workers' support in old age. It's a new institution we've introduced in recent years. The State pays a pension contribution from gross premiums, thus obtaining pension rights; these years must be taken into account as periods of service and are also entitled to health care. This is how we have tried to offer various kinds of help in recent years. And like in recent years, we have expanded the titles, the forms of support, the amounts, as I mentioned yesterday, the government will continue to deal with this during the autumn, this year will make a decision, and then everyone will be able to know what additional increases, what further enlargements can be expected in the coming year or next years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr Péter Ovádi, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda on the title of the real content of the Sargentini report. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-18-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Parliament intends to put Hungary on the bench of the accused in a new conceptual procedure. The Tavares report, which was completed in 2013, was the revenge of parties and their representatives supported by bankers and multinational companies, which was triggered by the reduction of debts and the taxation of banks. The accusations in the report turned out to be completely unfounded and aimed exclusively at political and economic gain. Dear fellow Members, There is no new under the sun, Hungary is again attacked because it refuses to bow to the will of the elite in Brussels, because the Hungarian people have decided that we will not be a country of immigration. Yesterday's Prime Minister said that we have already fought two battles. The first was when the great wave of illegal immigrants reached Europe in 2015. Brussels then raised its hand that illegal immigration cannot be stopped. By building the fence, Hungary proved that this can be stopped if there is enough will and determination. The other debate was about the compulsory resettlement quota. However, the Hungarian people have clearly said that they do not ask for a compulsory quota and protect the values of Christian culture. As a result of this courageous stand, more and more people share the Hungarian position. We protected our borders, made it clear who we want to live with and who we don't. Our firm and unbreakable stand has annoyed the pro-immigration forces, which have put all the means to war against Hungary. The European Parliament's report on Hungary and its timing are linked to this. Of course, in this case, too, it is a vendetta in the robe of concern for the rule of law. It is obvious that the report was written about Hungary and against our country. The 19 points of the report are on the subject of ongoing dispute proceedings, with 13 additional points containing issues which Hungary has already defended before the various international organisations and have been closed on the basis of mutual cooperation. A further 37 points in the report contain errors in ignorance or deliberate but serious facts. I would point out that the Sargentini report does not pose any danger to Hungary, since it was adopted under a procedure which does not end with any sanctions, so it must not have any adverse legal consequences for the country. The pro-immigration forces are desperate to fight, they do not shy away from using any means. The European Parliament must violate its own rules in order to condemn Hungary. The European Parliament, contrary to the Treaties, did not take the votes remaining into account when establishing the result and adopted the opinion of an unauthorized body on the legal resolution in this regard. The case is several times contrary to Community law and therefore a legal debate is under way for clarification. The European Parliament is experiencing the last crumbs of its moral authority when it condemns a country in the rule of law by ignoring their own rule of law. The European Parliament which adopted the report should simply be seen as a run-off collection, as the pro-immigration majority in their country is becoming increasingly unpopular because they are completely opposed to the will of their electorate. These groupings consider it their historic mission to change the composition of the continent, to make a population exchange. Those who still want a majority of the European Parliament to be pro-immigration after May are attacking Hungary as a symbol of resistance to illegal migration, so we must stand on the ground and, from May onwards, we must, together with a new Parliament, stop further flows of migration and the implementation of forced resettlement. [[10.10]] We must also not forget those Hungarian Members who have turned against their country out of anger and despair, because their party lost for the third time in a row in the parliamentary elections. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The opposition is unable to place hatred for its own domestic political opponents behind the fate of its country. They do not realize that because of this political performance, they do not gain the voter's trust. Unfortunately, neither does the opposition understand that immigration and the migrant invasion are not a party issue, but a prime national issue. It is the duty of all Hungarian Members to stand alongside the nation in national matters. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As a starting point, we must conclude that the Sargentini report is not in the interests of the Hungarian people or of the European people. I'd like to back that up with three things for you. On the one hand, the Sargentini report undermines the value of the rule of law, which is so important in the European Union. Paradoxically, this report, which is responsible for protecting the rule of law, is in fact undermining the concept of the rule of law. It is because Article 354 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 178 of the EP's Rules of Procedure clearly state how such a report can be adopted and the European Parliament has not complied with these rules. Mostly, if we could hear any reference to this, it would be to the point that it has not been done before, but this is the case in which they have done so. It is an old Roman principle that there is no right to unlawfulness, so it cannot be interpreted differently than undermining the concept of the rule of law. The second is that the Sargentini report also undermines democracy, because this is how people and all European countries have the right to establish a parliamentary majority and to choose a government that represents their position and is empowered to represent this position, on the one hand, by the government and on the other. In the Sargentini report, we see elements that basically go against the will of the majority of Hungarians. Thus, the report objects, for example, to patriotic education, propagates the principle of support rather than work, and other principles which it lays down and places on the eyes of the Orbán government, which it actually carries out through the authority of the Hungarian people. The third is that the Sargentini report also undermines the idea of freedom by linking it to the concept of sovereignty, because the majority of the European Parliament's left-wing, liberal, pro-green, pro-immigration, are very fond of referring to Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, in which it concerns fundamental values in Europe, but if we look at Article 1 of the Treaty, we can see that there are also values such as the principle of non-interference, such as the principle of delegation of powers, the principle of proportionality, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of loyal cooperation between Member States. These are as important European core values as those which are often referred to by the pro-immigration majority. These basic values, which are embodiments of the sovereignty of the Member States, are underpinned by the Sargentini report. Consequently, since here, if we accept the above as a starting point, we can see here that we cannot talk about a well-founded legal document, but we can talk about a political pressure tool, a mansion, which is obviously related to immigration. It is about the European Parliament's pro-immigration majority wanting to put pressure on immigration critical national governments. It is clear from the vote on the Sargentini report that these forces have increased pressure on the Hungarian government in the European Union and in other international institutions, such as the UN, the Council of Europe and the European Commission through infringement procedures. We're dealing with a coordinated, legal gown, but basically a political pressure tool. The Government discussed the situation on the vote on the Sargentini report and the situation that followed at its meeting yesterday, and decided to initiate legal action to prove it right, and, moreover, it was also decided that the Hungarian Government would use all the legal instruments to prove that this report did not stand the test of European values, and that it would use all the political instruments to find supporters for this position, just as we have already used several speakers today. That is why I am very pleased that the Hungarian Parliament wishes to join this, and the Parliament wishes to adopt a resolution. The government supports this. We believe that national parliaments have a key role to play in European integration in terms of sovereignty and freedom, so we thank you if you, as representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, stand up for Hungary in the European debate on this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Next up is the 1999 LXXVI on Copyright. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/1358. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Five years ago, 27 June 2013 compared to international copyright agreements, but also in the international norm-setting process, there was an unprecedented and unprecedented multilateral international treaty. The Marrakesh Treaty on the facilitation of access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired and otherwise unable to use printed text within the framework of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, WIPO has been adopted. At the closing ceremony of the diplomatic conference, the guest of honor, the worldless music legend, Stevie Wonder, stressed that the contract was a big step towards accessing formats such as Braille, enlarged print, audio books and voice overtones. He asked the Member States and governments participating in the diplomatic conference and signing the treaty to give priority to this objective in their further work. The Marrakesh Treaty entered into force three months after the ratification of twenty Member States, on 30 September 2016, and currently has 43 States Parties. The contract aims to eliminate the so-called book hunger. Around 253 million blind, visually impaired people live in the world, 89 percent in developing countries. However, less than 10 percent of all printed works published in the world can be accessed in a accessible format, which represents an unequal chance of participation in culture and cultural life. Although the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities declares that, in accordance with international law, the States Parties shall take all necessary steps to ensure that legislation protecting intellectual property does not constitute an unreasonable or discriminatory barrier to the access of persons with disabilities to cultural material, only 57 of the 191 Member States, based on a WIPO survey, apply the exception and restriction of copyright to this category of beneficiaries and the free use of domestic terminology. This means that the author is entitled to an exclusive provision over a work, and that free use is an exception to that which restricts the author's monopoly rights in a way that does not require the author's permission to use it and does not require a fee for its use. In order to achieve this goal, it became necessary to exclude the contract from related rights and to introduce restrictions at international level, which facilitate access to copyrights for visually impaired persons and persons with limited readability. [[10.20]] Article 3 of the Marrakesh Treaty sets out the categories of beneficiaries for whom the Treaty would introduce exceptions and restrictions at international level. The beneficiaries shall provide services to so-called authorised entities which are organisations recognised or authorised by the government on a non-profit basis and which provide their services through education, training, adaptive reading or the provision of information. The Marrakesh Treaty, compared to the existing copyright agreements of WIPO, is unprecedented and unprecedented as a result of what has been said. The dossier was discussed in the Standing Committee on Copyright and Neighborhood Legal Affairs of WIPO in a very short period of time, starting in 2009. Its view and approach is also new, since, based on the human rights approach of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities already referred to, it requires the contracting parties to impose certain exceptions and restrictions on copyright and certain related rights on a compulsory basis, without imposing those rights on themselves or on a minimum of their protection. The mandatory nature is new insofar as the international copyright conventions have so far regulated exceptions and restrictions as options open to the contracting parties, and only the conditions for using the options, i.e. the use of exceptions and restrictions, have been binding. The Marrakesh Treaty was signed by the European Union on 30 April 2014. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In its opinion No 13 of 13 September 2017, the Commission clarified that the implementation of the Marrakesh Treaty falls within the exclusive competence of the Union and the European Parliament and the Council adopted on 13 September 2017 the EU legislation transposing the Marrakesh Treaty into European Union law: a directive and a regulation. The Directive sets out a mandatory free use case to promote the availability of copyright-protected works and related legal performances, such as books, journals, newspapers, magazines and other written works, sheet music and other printed material, for beneficiaries who are unable to use blind, visually impaired and printed text for other reasons. It aims to achieve this by enabling all beneficiaries in the European Union and the so-called authorised organisations serving their interests on a non-profit basis to convert such content into accessible formats and to distribute and make available online the physical or digital copies thus produced to beneficiaries without the need to request permission from copyright holders. The authorised organisations shall also be given the opportunity, in the framework of their free use, to provide such accessible format copies and to import such copies to authorised entities and beneficiaries established in other Member States of the European Union. The purpose of the Regulation is to ensure that an accessible format produced in any Member State in accordance with national provisions adopted in accordance with the Directive allows exports to and imports from other third countries outside the European Union which have acceded to the Marrakesh Treaty. LXXVI 1999 on copyright T/1358. The primary objective of adopting the Marrakesh Treaty is to implement the Directive transposing the Marrakesh Treaty into EU law by amending the rules of copyright law on free use and other limitations of copyright and by establishing a new Government Decree. In addition, the bill also makes adjustments to certain provisions of the Copyright Act, as required by practical experience and the entry into force of general administrative rules and administrative rules, as well as some technical clarifications. Dear House, The current copyright law is 41. Paragraph (1) of the Act, which existed since 1999, and which was slightly amended in 2003 on the basis of the authorisation given by the Infosoc Directive, dictated by the interest of social equal opportunities in our copyright, which provided a broad exception for the free use of persons with disabilities even before the amendment of the Marra-kes contract. In this context, any use for the benefit of persons with disabilities, otherwise subject to authorisation, was considered as free use. As the concept of disability is not specified in the provision, it covers all disabilities. At the same time, it was necessary to clarify the provision governing the conditions for such free use in order to better reflect the political will behind its creation. It should also be noted that the scope of the provisions of the Directive is wider than the scope of the existing domestic free use case in that they also allow the use of the free use case in relation to databases. Following this approach, the amendment of the Copyright Act ensures that free use can also be made for databases. In Hungary, the greatest added value of transposition will be that, following transposition, an accessible format copy made in any Member State of the European Union can be distributed and obtained in all Member States without a request for authorisation or payment of a fee by authorised organisations in the Member States. Therefore, accessible format copies are expected to be made more widely available to beneficiaries. This means that a Hungarian approved organisation can send the format or audiobook version of the work to a Hungarian beneficiary in Slovakia, for example, without limitation, but, of course, the Hungarian beneficiaries will also have a way to obtain accessible works produced there from Germany, also without asking for a specific permit. Dear Parliament, The main purpose of the domestic transposition provisions is to lay down provisions allowing exports and imports to be made available to authorised entities in the framework of their free use. Entities authorised under this Directive are organisations whose revenue acquisition activities are intended solely for the reimbursement of their costs and thus for the provision of educational, special training activities for beneficiaries, as well as accessible reading facilities, or otherwise for the provision of access to information, and are authorised or otherwise recognised by the State to carry out such activities. The amendment of the copyright law leaves their definition to a government decree. Under the new rules of the Copyright Act, licensed organisations established in Hungary are free to distribute, loan and transmit copies in accessible format to both domestic beneficiaries and other authorised entities and beneficiaries established abroad. One of the conditions for these free uses is that they are not allowed to engage in business. In order to promote cross-border exchanges and to facilitate cooperation between authorised entities established in Member States, Member States should, on the basis of the provisions of this Directive, ensure that authorised entities share information on their names, contact details, the number and format of available copies in accessible format and transmit them to the European Commission. In order to ensure an effective pooling and transmission of information received from authorised entities, it is appropriate to designate a central authorised entity which records the abovementioned data and forwards them to the Commission. The Directive provides for the possibility for Member States to apply compensation schemes for authorised uses, where they are exercised by authorised entities established in their territory, within the limits set by the Directive. We do not see the need to introduce this optional compensation for the benefit of the right holders, since it has not been justified to require such compensation in Hungary so far. This is because the use concerns a narrow range of beneficiaries, and it is unlikely that the transposition of the Directive will result in a large increase in the domestic use of works by this special disability group. Given the limited nature of the exception due to its nature, it is not expected that the right holders would lose a large amount of revenue as a result of their free use, so there is no concern from a copyright point of view that a compensatory mechanism will not be put in place. [[10.30]] Dear House, Both the transposition deadline and the entry into force of the EU Regulation are 11 October 2018. It is therefore necessary to adopt the bill described above in order to comply with obligations arising both from the law of the European Union and from international law. The adoption of the bill will help to ensure that the accessible formats for beneficiaries within the European Union are accessible to books and other printed material and is an indispensable step towards improving the accessibility of works for persons with disabilities. I therefore ask you to support the bill, following its discussion, in voting with your consent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Salacz. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-18-31	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, People with disabilities are able to use their rights and opportunities with or without significant difficulties. They are equal members of society, mitigating their disadvantages, establishing their equal opportunities, each of us has a shared responsibility and obligation, both in Hungary and in the European Union. The purpose of the bill before them is to alleviate the disability-related disadvantages of our fellow citizens by means of detailed and extended legislation. The basis for the draft amendments is the Marrakesh Treaty, adopted in 2013 to facilitate access to published works for blind, visually impaired and printed text. The Treaty was signed by the European Union itself on 30 April 2014, but it was only announced in 2017 because some institutions of the European Union did not agree that ratification falls within the exclusive or shared competence of the Union. The Gordian knot was dissolved by the judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2017, which stated that the conclusion of the Marrakesh Treaty falls within the exclusive competence of the Union and should be approved. During ratification, the Union issued a directive and a regulation on the subject. The directive aims to promote the availability of works and other content and harmonise national legislation. This is done by breaking down the limitations of authorisation in cases where the beneficiary person or body acting for it uses the work. The purpose of this Regulation is to allow the export or import from the territory of another Contracting State outside the Union of an accessible format produced within the territory of the European Union to take place in the same way as national legislation. Hungary was also at the forefront of free use for disabled persons prior to the adoption of the directive, and the Hungarian legislation allowed all disabled persons to be used without authorisation. In order to harmonise legislation, the rules for unauthorised use should be clarified, which will be made in the proposal before us. The draft expands the scope and includes databases as an object of free use if the conditions are met. Under the new provisions, licensed organisations established in Hungary are free to use and transmit works originally under copyright to the benefit of both domestic beneficiary persons and to other authorised entities and beneficiaries established abroad, with the condition that they are not allowed to carry out business for this purpose. The proposal empowers the government to regulate the detailed rules in a government regulation, including, for the sake of transparency, the designation and responsibilities of the qualified organisations which maintain the register of works and related legal performances in accessible format and of the intermediate body providing information to the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the bill before us serves a good purpose, and thanks to the new regulation, our fellow people with disabilities will be able to obtain more extensive access without authorisation to works that would not have access to them in the appropriate form without removing the obligation. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal with their comments and votes. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. You have the floor, please.
u2018-09-18-33	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt for us, the Group and representatives of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, that we would not give our vote in favour of ratifying such a convention in Hungary. In the first place, it is our fundamental duty for all healthy people and all those responsible for society to help our fellow countrymen and fellow people with disabilities in their daily lives naturally by all means. In the bill before us, I stress that, not in terms of legislation in Hungary, but at the initiative of the global organisation, and then in the process of implanting it into EU law, I regret that in this respect, five years will have to pass before a national Parliament can address this issue in this way. I also think that we should take the lead as Hungarians in the reform of the European Union in an increasingly important and active role, so that we can speed up the process a little bit there, and that we do not have to spend years on such an important issue. I must say that I would also reprimand the Hungarian Ministry of Justice a little bit, because although, fortunately, during the last session, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was managed to be regulated and not to submit proposals to Parliament after years or semesters, but from the fact that this agreement will enter into force in October 2018, I do not think that it was necessarily necessary to submit it at the last minute, it was almost a one-year anniversary. The Ministry of Justice was occupied during the previous period of the year with the creation of laws violating human rights, freedom of expression, and I think that such an important legislative proposal could have been included. There is no doubt that the introduction of this legal institution or access to information for our disabled fellow citizens is of primary interest, and it was a pleasure for us to have left the user base in national jurisdiction, or to have a reward or free transfer. Of course, Hungary was quite right to live by expanding the user base and creating freedom, because fortunately, the number of people living with such disabilities is quite small compared to the number of people living with such disabilities and who can be potentially, in view of their condition, users. In copyright matters, as soon as the author's work is completed, there is no need for any further procedure, and since the use of virtually any copyright in the electronic world could be used for illegal use moments after its completion, it is particularly important to protect at least those personal circles in order to have free access to these materials for whom this can play a significant role in improving their quality of life. It is to be welcomed that what was already in the Marrakesh Treaty, and it is to be welcomed that the Hungarian Government has extended its proposal to the widest range of people with disabilities, and that we have not started to be petty on this issue, as is often the case in government activity. [[10.40]] So it is our pleasure, though it would be our pleasure if we did not have any disabled fellow citizens or fellow citizens, but if fate has brought this, we are glad that we can vote in this House on legislation that can play a major role in their lives, in improving their quality of life. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-09-18-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Respect and protection of creative activities are the responsibility of intellectual property law. On the basis of the development of law, two major branches of this area have emerged: copyright and industrial property protection. In the first case, the protection is based on individual character and originality, while in the latter it is due to the emergence of novelty. Copyright is created automatically with the creation of the work, the protection covers both the publication, processing and translation of the work. In these cases, the copyright holder's consent is required. Thus, copyright provides a wide range of protection for works and, in addition to classical works of art, also covers the production of sound recordings and maps. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary prohibits discrimination. Under the Fundamental Law of Hungary, fundamental rights are guaranteed to everyone, without any distinction. The Hungarian state protects people with disabilities with a special measure and seeks to ensure social security for all its citizens. In the European Union, 80 million people, i.e. one sixth of the population, are disabled. In Hungary, according to the 2011 census, nearly half a million people live with disabilities, including 73 450 weak and barely seeing, 9054 blind, 63 014 deaf, 8571 deaf and 3262 deaf blind people. According to these data, the number of people with visual or hearing impairments in Hungary is close to 160,000. Ladies and Gentlemen, The availability of accessible books and cultural publications is low worldwide for visually impaired people and people with reading difficulties. The Marrakesh Treaty aims to alleviate this global shortage by restricting copyright protection, making works available without permission to persons who are visually impaired or unable to read the printed text for other reasons. The Marrakesh Treaty was adopted by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, known as WIPO, a member of the UN in June 2013 following a multi-annual preparatory work. The Treaty entered into force on 30 September 2016. However, due to the delay in the European Union, European visually impaired people and their organisations could not make use of the possibilities and benefits offered by the Marrakesh Treaty and they still cannot take advantage of it, because the European Council has only recently adopted a decision and a directive approving the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind people, visually impaired persons and persons unable to use the printed text for other reasons. Moreover, the European Council has made this unjustified delay aware that the Marrakesh Treaty is extremely important. It is of particular importance as it helps to remove discriminatory barriers to access to cultural material for persons with disabilities. The Marrakesh Treaty eliminates discriminatory barriers by laying down international rules to ensure the application of restrictions or exceptions to copyright for persons who are blind, visually impaired, or otherwise unable to use printed text. The contract also allows for the cross-border exchange of copies of works published in accessible format. Hungary clearly supports the increase in the number of works and other protected content that exist in accessible formats, such as Braille, audiobooks or enlarged letters. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Marrakesh Treaty consists of the following articles: Article 1: relation to other conventions and contracts; Article 2: definitions; Article 3: beneficiary persons; Article 4: national copyright exceptions and restrictions on accessible format copies; Article 5: cross-border exchange of accessible format copies; Article 6: import of accessible format copies; Article 7: obligations relating to technical measures; Article 8: respect for the private sector; Article 9: cooperation to facilitate cross-border exchanges; Article 10: general principles for transposition into national law; Article 11: general obligations for exceptions and restrictions; and lastly Article 12: other exceptions and restrictions. The mandatory nature of the Marrakesh Treaty is new insofar as the international copyright conventions have so far regulated exceptions and restrictions as an option open to the Contracting Parties, and only the conditions for using the options, i.e. the use of exceptions and restrictions, have been binding. However, this is not the case. Ladies and Gentlemen, To ratify the Marrakesh Treaty, the European Council adopted an EU/2018/25. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports LXXVI 1999 on copyright. T/1358. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna be a shape-breaker, and I'm gonna start my speech right at the end. Our Fraction supports the adoption of the bill, and, in fact, the terms that were partly formulated here by the pro-government representatives, in part, have already been described by the Secretary of State in his expozee. In other words, I do not think that I would repeat, so in particular, we obviously support this kind of harmonisation effort, the transposition of the provisions of the Marrakesh Treaty. In general, however, I have to make some points, some criticisms in this regard. One of my fellow opposition Members has already said. Here, too, we are quite able to transpose these provisions at the last minute, this proposal being discussed here in Parliament, exceptionally still within the deadline, but I think that there is a lot of public life, there is a lot of debate in politics. Usually, there is not much debate about proposals on harmonisation, so these tasks, I think, are carried out with a good heart by the Parliament. [[10.50]] And if the wallet were not burdened with the production of often divisive or political proposals, it would be able to meet these expectations earlier, it would be able to make such proposals sooner. But I think that we will still be able to support legislative harmonisation proposals almost without exception. On the other hand, the accessibility of people with disabilities is facilitated by this proposal, and we also welcome the fact that it really helps their access as widely as possible. At the same time, we would like the government to do more for people with disabilities in other proposals and in internal policy, as they are perhaps most affected by workers' poverty. Some have increased employment rates in their eyes, but the income they earn is often not enough to live a decent life, to create decent living conditions. To sum up, we support the concrete proposal. We support harmonisation efforts, the transposition of the provisions of the Marrakesh Treaty, because we believe that access for people with disabilities to certain works will be facilitated, an opportunity for them, a very important issue, and we therefore support this proposal. At the same time, I would like to draw attention once again to speeding up imports of other legislative proposals and to the fact that people with disabilities should be represented not only in such proposals but also in the context of the general social policy pursued by the government. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-09-18-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make speeches, for the first time in two minutes, if someone applies or if they make a proper speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-18-39	Very briefly, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the factions for their support for the presentation, and I hope that we will have the same result in the final vote. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, As usual, amendments can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common border between the two countries, Ipolydamasd and Helemba amending the Agreement between the municipalities on the construction of the road Ipoly Bridge and related facilities signed on 27 February 2012 1. General debate on the proposal to publish an amendment until closure. Government referral T/813. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The bill provides for the publication of the first addition to the Ipoly Bridge agreement between Ipolydásd and Helemba, which was signed by the Hungarian and Slovak governments in February 2012 at the common state border. The aim of the proposal is to incorporate the amendment agreement with the Slovak party into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, the agreement must be published at the level of law. After the original agreement was concluded, the Hungarian and Slovak municipalities concerned initiated the amendment of the bridge design documentation. The essence of the change is that investment costs can be significantly reduced by rationalising the technical content. The amendment made it necessary to fix the status of the new design documentation in the Convention. At the request of local authorities, the parties also agreed that freight traffic on the bridge should be allowed for up to 3.5 tonnes of unrestricted passenger traffic instead of 12 tonnes previously planned. This figure also had to be amended in the text of the Convention. The construction of the bridge offers the opportunity to develop lively economic, commercial, tourism, cultural relations and cooperation between border settlements and regions that have so far been isolated from each other. The investment also serves national policy objectives by ensuring better access to Hungarian residential areas in the Highlands. I ask the Honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support the amendment of the agreement between Ipolydamásd and Helemba on the construction of the planned Ipoly Bridge at the Hungarian-Slovak state border, and T/813. Please accept this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I would like to address Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In 2012, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic signed an agreement providing for the construction of a road bridge and related facilities between the municipalities of Ipolydamasd and Helemba on the border of the two countries. The funding of the bridge, which amounts to HUF 2.1 billion, is intended to be provided within the framework of the European Union Interreg 5, the cooperation programme Slovakia-Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Once 47 bridges connected the Ipoly coast, but in the 1950s the number of bridges fell dramatically and fell to four bridges. Thanks to the new road bridge, more efficient transport will be ensured in the region, mainly for residents who drive by car between work and their place of residence and can boost tourism in the given settlements with a simpler approach. In 2017, Hungary and Slovakia agreed to include the Slovak municipalities' initiative and the request of local authorities in the draft text of the amendment. As a result, the modified version of the design documentation required for the construction of the bridge and the local government's demand to allow freight traffic up to 3.5 tonnes was included, while leaving unlimited passenger traffic intact. Dear House, It is evident that the bridge serves the interests of the affected regions, the inhabitants. Please support the announcement of the additions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay, Member of the Parliament. I'll wait for the microphone to come up. Thank you very much. Congressman, notary, you have the floor.
u2018-09-18-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is a small, yet very important case ahead of us now, which obviously has some kind of symbolism, which is particularly important to look at in the light of what has happened in recent years. We will vote and decide to rebuild a bridge, which I will tell you in advance, of course we will support, which connects two regions, two regions of Hungary, two regions which, at the time, I looked up through the Ipoly River, what my fellow Member Fidesz said, 47 bridges connected, and I also found that only four of them were left in the 1950s. These bridges connected the Hungarian population of the region, the Hungarian population, which was then torn apart and separated by the Trianon Frog Treaty in 1920. It is good and right that such infrastructure investments are being made. It is important to build Hungarian-Hungarian relations. It is important that we can connect the Hungarian communities of the Carpathian Basin with as many threads as possible, and of course there are also infrastructure conditions. [[11.00]] It would also be equally important, I would like to bring it here for a sentence, as we have spoken about this on several occasions in the House, as well as the development of railway connections, not only in relation to Slovakia-Hungarian or Slovakian-Hungarian, but also in respect of the other separated areas. We have asked the government to make progress on several occasions on this issue, so far we see that there is less intention of achieving similar developments in rail transport. The Secretary of State mentioned it only for a sentence, and the presentation itself is only shy of the fact that the agreement on the reconstruction of this bridge was already concluded in 2012. Six years have passed since then, dear fellow Members, dear Secretary of State. What happened in those six years? I think that perhaps this should have been mentioned in the national speech. All the more should have been said, because the Ipoly Bridge or the Ipoly Bridge, as we can talk about more, the reconstruction and development of more are also planned in the coming years, there was a point in government national communication that was constantly referred to as a success story. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At the beginning of the 2010s, I criticized, criticized and called on the government in Hungarian-Slovak bilateral relations because of insufficient representation of cases of grievance to the Hungarian community in the Highlands. I did not have one, not two, with Mr.Zsolt Németh State Secretary at the time when I took part in an interpellation or issue on which we saw that the Hungarian government had not made any progress after several years, and, I add, it has not made any progress since then. Whether it is the death of Malina Hedvig, whether it be the Highland Language Law or the Flag Law, be it the brutal beating of DAC fans in Slovakia many years, decades ago. And the most important thing is the citizenship law. It is the citizenship law, the Slovak citizenship law, which you cannot produce any results in any way. In fact, government communication was at the time, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén said that the solution is to come to Hungary and pick it up here about secretly in Slovak nationality. Well, when I asked these questions many times, and unfortunately I can do all of them now, the answer has always been a little bit of a Kovács László sentiment, that we have to focus on the points where we can work together, where we can achieve success while I speak, but I think I have made quite good progress so far..., we have to focus on those points where we see that there is room for cooperation and, for example, there should be a constant focus on not on the bad things, but on how good European cooperation is, and the new Ipoly bridges are built. For years since 2012, we have listened to how important it is or how much more appropriate it is to focus on projects as well as the Ipoly bridges that are built. Now, six years have passed since then, and I would have liked to have heard a few sentences from the Secretary of State on why we have failed to make progress in these six years. Well, it's not just our fault, by the way, let's add, or ours certainly isn't, but it's not just your fault. Looking into it a little bit, we can see that your Slovak friends did not necessarily have the burning good intentions to close this case as quickly as possible. In the two years following the conclusion of the agreement, it was mainly Nitra County, at least at the time Magyar Nemzet prepared a rather good summary of this, which was followed by the real Hungarian Nem. Then, once after 2014, the Slovak Government rejected its implementation, saying that it was not well prepared and that it was not well justified. But there are also some news, and we are bringing these into this debate because it has been a problem that, while you have a great friendship with Robert Fico, and on the altar of this, you have sacrificed everything in relation to Hungarian affairs in the Highlands, while paradoxically refusing to talk to the members of the Slovak Government, the Slovak Government of Friends, who are also delegated by Hungarian or semi-Hungarian parties, but rather regard the MKP outside Parliament as a strategic partner. We did not necessarily dispute this logic, as far as the strategic partnership is concerned, nor that in national politics the Hungarian government must rely essentially on ethnic foundations, and that the Hungarian government must maintain an ally or partnership with Hungarian ethnic parties in the first place. However, this should not rule out that, on an expert level, when it comes to the construction of a national interest or, where appropriate, an Ipoly Bridge, there should also be better cooperation with the Slovak transport wallet, which was otherwise led by the Bridge. According to some reports, this has also hindered the progress of cases that you have not been willing to cooperate in sufficient depth from such a grumpy approach of principle. Then where this great friendship with Fico and his government led me, let me put one more half sentence here because it has an actuality. Yesterday, my fellow Member, Márton Gyöngyösi, also addressed the Sargentini report. While you have all sacrificed these questions on the altar of the Ipoly Bridges, for example, while Robert Fico did not do so every time he had to stand with Hungary on the European stage. Orbán did not do so in connection with the adoption of compulsory quotas, either in this fight, in a legitimate fight, I would like to emphasise this. I have searched the European Parliament's website by country to see who voted, and my sad news to you is that the representatives of Fico-led SMER did not support you or, if you will, Hungary on this issue either. Meanwhile, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó said in March this year that although the relationship between Hungary and Slovakia was complex, today this cooperation is so good that it has never been done before. Because of this excellent cooperation, Commissioner, they wanted to close a third of the Hungarian schools in Felvidék a year ago, my fellow Members. The closure of one third of the Hungarian schools is a story that causes tension, it does not have to be dealt with, let us deal with successful projects rather than, for example, the Ipoly Bridge, which has not been built in six years. By the way, I asked Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister about this at a forum of national policy at the time, asking him to come to him once when he has such an excellent friendship with Robert Fico, and please tell him that since we are so close to each other, please make the gesture that he will not close one third of the Hungarian schools in Felvidék, because this would be a rather tragic surprise from a Hungarian national political point of view. The Hungarian government, the Hungarian national policy, replied, dear fellow Members, that we would pay for it then. Then we'll take the cost of this. So we're not in a relationship with Robert Fico to make such requests to them. We'll pay for it. This is the complete miscarriage of Hungarian national policy, my fellow Members. Then it was resolved anyway, only in Hungary that little has been said about it, especially in the government press, because the Bridge was on the government, and one of the conditions for the Bridge's entry into the government was to amend this law so that a third of the Hungarian schools would not have to be closed. So you don't have to love the Bridge, you don't have to love the bridge politicians, you just have to be aware of certain realities. If a party in Slovakia controls the transport wallet, which has a decisive influence on such projects, which defines itself as at least half-Hungarian, but even if it does not define it as Hungarian, the Hungarian national interest is that if we cooperate so well with Slovakia, especially with the Slovak government, then national matters and national issues should not be subject to such petty party logic. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with all this, we will, of course, support the proposal, together with our criticisms which are more complementary or helpful to the clarity of the past years, drawing attention once again to the fact that many other similar projects are still under way, there may still be a number of Ipoly Bridge renovations. [[11.10]] In 2012 Zsolt Németh spoke not of one, but of four or five Ipoly bridges. Still not talking about the other four. Mr. Secretary, if you wouldn't, obviously, but it's my job to tell you and ask you to, so if you'd like to say in your closet that the other three or four Ipoly Bridges, with which Zsolt Németh had already fought in 2012, about his re-opening, we'd be very pleased. So we have more work to do, we still have options. We consider it very important that the Carpathian Basin be as interoperable as possible, and the links between the Hungarian communities that were torn apart in Trianon almost a hundred years ago should be as easy as possible. These Ipoly bridges are very helpful, but it would also be helpful for you to pursue a much more pragmatic policy on these issues. One more comment: there was also news of the involvement of EU funds there, that the problem was not necessarily just the Nitra County and the Slovak government, but also the problem of the local Fidesz mayors in relation to the application procedures. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-09-18-46	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-09-18-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As Ipolydomasd and the parliamentary representative of the surrounding settlements, I would like to address this item on the agenda, as it was an extremely important demand and plan for the inhabitants of the area to build this bridge. You know, it has already been said today that there were 47 places before the World War, before the World War, there were road, railway and footbridges crossing the Ipoly, but unfortunately history has led to the destruction of most of them, and today there are only four left. If you look up from the Danube estuary where there are bridges like this, there is one between Letkis and Ipolysalka in the Pest county, but then this would be the other bridge between Ipolydamásd and Helemba, where you can cross from one country to another, from one shore of Ipoly to the other. The construction of bridges is particularly important for the people here, as we are faced with a geographical part, which is beautiful in its natural characteristics, since it lies at the feet of Börzsöny, while the Ipoly and the state border are bordered from the west, the river and the state border from the north, and the mountains of Börzsöny from the east. So it's a pretty isolated part of our country. Obviously, this was not the case when this geographical unit was yet united and not cut across the state line. This was not the case when 47 Ipoly Bridges were, but unfortunately, the development of the past decades was marked by the fact that there was no real North, East or West crossing and transport. Therefore, bridge construction in this region is double important, so it is double important that this bridge can finally be built between Ipolydaásd and Helemba, and we can decide on it here in Parliament. Both with Minister Árpád Érsek and Minister Peter Žiga and with Minister Péter Szijjártó, we presented the investment on the spot once in March. Here, a 52-meter bridge will be built with the access road from 2.1 billion forints, and we trust that in two or three years the people living in the area will be able to use it. This helps economic development, helps tourism, creates new jobs, whether for Ipolyfabric on the Hungarian side or for jobs on the other side, this can be an important step forward in terms of freight transport or commuting to work. But it's just as important that this bridge connects relatives, families, who have been torn apart by both the Ipoly and the state border over the last century. It is also important that by building this bridge a very large, more than 30 km long detour can be eliminated by those who want to pass from one settlement to another, and who will obviously attract more and more people both in terms of investment, trade and tourism, to Ipolydamasdra and to Helemba on the other side. As I said, the two settlements have a centuries-old history, which we can now restore with this bridge. The Hungarians in the Highlands are also closer to the motherland. On the other side of the border, on the right bank of Ipoly, there is an overwhelming majority of Slovakia's population, and it is important that their relationship with the mother country be as close as possible, and like all bridges, this is a symbol of cooperation. I would like to thank everyone on both sides of the border, mayors, heads of county assemblies, heads of county and district authorities for doing a lot, and I hope that they will continue to do so in the future, so that this bridge can be built; in particular, Mayor Ferenc Rányik, who has always tried to promote the case of the bridge, the construction of the bridge on both Hungarian and Slovak sides. So I can sum up and ask everyone to support this current addition to the international agreement. We can heal a century of damage by building the bridge, and on the other hand, we can provide life, connections and connections not only for those living in Ipolydamad, but also for those living in other settlements to the north and south of it. I hope that we can have many similar debates here in Parliament when we can decide to build more and more Ipoly bridges. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-18-48	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-09-18-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Normally, after three such excellent contributions, there is nothing to be said, but what is the opinion of our group is that we too will vote for this bill. However, allow me three very short thoughts, and I promise you that I will spare your time and this House's time. One is that man, as a practicing politician, as a practicing leader, always marvels at the fact that in such a seemingly extremely simple case, as in an Ipoly bridge, he changes the 12 tonnes to 3.5 tonnes or some kind of authorisation procedure, it is not necessary for the locals to wait for the Hungarian Parliament to meet, for excellent and important people to express their opinion, so that they can get to the point where coalition cooperation may take place in Slovakia. So I would suggest that I do not know if there is such an opportunity, and I apologize if this is taking a little bit of a debate in the wrong direction, that perhaps we should agree on what my good-looking fellow Member has been pushing. If it is important for us to have bridges on Ipoly, then an agreement can be reached that can then leave the decisions to local settlements and, where appropriate, lower levels to be made. I do not want to go through very, very much with another political debate, but if you are now asking Brussels to take away local driver's licenses and speak in a very combatant manner about the protection of Hungarian interests, otherwise rightly so, I think it is also true that when building a bridge there is not a debate in the Hungarian Parliament, otherwise it is obvious that people have seen the world and are serious and familiar with the site. The second thought is that I would like to join myself in what Bence Rétvári said. Anyone who knows the area knows that this is a very specific nailing of Hungary, which is indeed in an amazing position to be bordered by Börzsöny, the borders and rivers. Technically, you can't get there in any other way or very difficult to get there. I think that if this is the next bridge out of 47, then this bridge will probably go to the right place. The third is a policy sentence I'd like to give you. My fellow Member may say that the spirit of László Kovács is lurking in the building of Parliament, but I am saying that less boobs and a lot of small work can really get ahead. This is exactly the point of the neighbourhood relations, that it is possible to say sound passwords, and in fact the goals that we have set or aimed for ourselves are exactly those that do not happen or hardly happen. We can do much, much more by trying to break down all the barriers, boundaries between us, with small steps, border crossings, bridges and cultural cooperation, because that is when it will actually be good for Hungarians across the border. So to sum up, the Socialist Party's position is to support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-50	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Molnár. There is no two-minute comment, so there will be further speeches by representatives; first, László Hajdu, representative of DK. [[11.20]]
u2018-09-18-51	Mr President, Dear House, I am speaking to Ipolydamad for personal reasons, for no other reason than the representative in the DK fraction, but I can predict that DK will vote in favour of the amendment to the law necessary to build this bridge. I must add that I consider it a very big step backwards, given that I have known this area and this settlement for about 20 years, I am also a citizen of honor in the settlement, and I have been accepted by the body of representatives, which is why I feel the need to say something. In the case of the bridge between Helemba and Ipolydamasd, stepping back from 10 tonnes to 3.5 tonnes will be an obstacle to very good observations, since the boost of tourism cannot be done by a bridge of 3.5 tonnes, because buses going towards Komárom, Párkány or Esztergom, which would mean tourism for this settlement; there is also a castle, which is a special spectacle, which does not take into account, but buses must continue to travel 30 kilometres bypass in case it is 3.5 tonnes. We should have modified this technical section so that buses could cross this bridge. I would post this to the Minister of State, the local representative, Bencé Rétvári, because in March I was late for the celebration, which was a bit campaign-like, where it was announced, which we will now negotiate as a law, but I was there in 2012 when Péter Harrach was still a representative, and then on some village days. By the way, it was a week ago on Saturday, it was a village day in Ipolydama, and this was celebrated separately in Ipolydamadon, but there it was not said on stage that it would not be a 10 ton bridge, but much smaller, because it would actually help tourism; and that's the only reason why I'm suggesting that we consider with the Slovaks or the Nitra County, I don't know how the licenses are there, I see that Nitra's going to have too much license in Slovakia as a regional center, maybe they can also be the helpers in building the bridge, but also the obstacles to this bridge being built. These six years, which have passed, I believe, will be followed by another six years if these amendments and many others are not well coordinated with the Slovaks. Overall, I support both myself and the faction, where I am sitting, the Democratic Coalition, but I recommend that, in terms of the technical content of this withdrawal, the fundamental goal is not achieved, and one more thing is that, from the point of view of road traffic, everything is on the very narrow road towards Esztergom, this road, and this section of road 2 is not exploited, even though it would mean a great deal in the direction of many Hungarian settlements to Bratislava if this bridge was not built with such a low technical content. By the way, I'm here to support you. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-09-18-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Hajdu. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-09-18-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous speeches, there was a common point, a little uncertainty as to why we came here with this agreement. From this point of view, I must say, Mr State Secretary, it was a little narrow, because Mr. Secretary of State should have outlined exactly the previous legal framework or events in his presentation that brought us here. The 2012 agreement, in which 90 intersections were defined by the delegations of the two countries for crossing both by foot and then by bridges, reached the conclusion that only eight intersections could be reached between the two delegations in 2014. How interesting that there is such an upsurge in 12, probably in both parties' domestic political relations, that the conclusion of this convention has been so great, and then in two years it will be reduced to eight, and we are on the point that, while a foundation stone will be laid on 31 March 2018, we have no idea when this bridge will otherwise be built. And with little modesty, I note that by 2021, all the intersections should have been made of some kind of culture. So that's the legal background to this whole story. That is why my fellow Members stand here with such infinite good intentions, but with some uncertainty in the walls of this House, because they ask why a signed treaty should only now include the fact that a bridge with the necessary permits in the design documentation can be completed. Isn't it natural for a construction site to build a bridge based on the design documentation? We're talking about a six-year agreement. No, please, it is a matter of fact that the development of tourism should have had a bridge for the passage of decent, normal vehicles of at least 10 tonnes, which was agreed, and of course, since Slovaks have the same internal political quarrels, in line with such or such a level of Hungarian hatred, it is true that on the Slovak side residents forced a referendum in 2014, and a referendum decided that it was not possible to pass a vehicle of more than 3.5 tonnes and serves exclusively international passenger traffic. That's the problem. So a convention was drawn up in 12 so that, in fact, there were no internal political discussions, probably no negotiations with the settlements concerned, and suddenly one politician was able to upset society that it was being forced out, and this happened. In this way, we are in an emergency situation, so Hungary is also a victim in this respect, that is a fact, but this is also probably due to the fact that we do not have the 90 intersections with dérrel-flat, and then in 2018 we are happy to have a bridge built by 2021. These things are symbolic, especially in the light of what my fellow Member István Szávay said here. The Hungarian Government is extremely proud of the wonderful results it has achieved with the Slovaks, but to be honest, if this 12-year activity is the result of this one bridge, although this is an important result in comparison to zero, from this point of view the difference between zero and one is greater than that between one and the two, because nothing and something, but I think that at some point the government should report what the real background of this process is, what the actual background of this process is, because we are only seeing the surface here, scratching the surface, and we are doing everything we can to make sure that these conditions work out well, and that we can have more access to our fellow countrymen in the neighbouring country, or the economic development of the tourism of the two countries, but it is so unpleasant that we are drowning in such changes of conventions, and that we are seriously affecting the lives of the two countries. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-54	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, points out that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-18-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few points to you because some of the speakers have not carefully read the proposal and its explanation, because this bridge is not only for less than 3.5 tonnes of traffic, but also for passenger traffic in general. So I say to my fellow Member, Hajdu, that a bus, which is one of the depositaries of tourism in order to transport tourists from one place to another in a large crowd, can cross the bridge, and that is a very important thing to note, in response to the comments of my better fellow Members, that the locals have asked that truck traffic of less than 3.5 tonnes can only cross the bridge, so that the freight traffic above cannot use this bridge. So the people who lived there suggested it, the people there asked for it. I think people who live there can really formulate and define their own needs, and Budapest may not be a good place for us to interfere. [[11.30]] So this was a very important question of interpretation, and I thought it was important to say this in order to clarify this issue, which gave rise to misunderstanding. The other thing I'd like to clarify is the number around 90 that he described as the intersection. This is about crossing, it was a framework, it was necessary to define the options, from these 90 locations it was necessary to identify and choose the locations that would be suitable for the subsequent crossing. This process is still taking place, the preparations are taking place, and while we are about to implement it, I would like to say that, for example, Drégelypalánk, Ipolyhídvég, Őrhalom, Ipolyvarbó bike bridge crossings are being prepared, and the bike bridge between Dunakiliti and Doborgaz is also under preparation, so the work is ongoing, it is only necessary to see that the preparatory work cannot be achieved from one moment to the next. Building a bridge doesn't happen by figuring it out, and the next day, we start building it. It must be planned, the source must be created; anyone who has worked in or has been involved in the management of investments in the local government knows that a dream, a plan, a goal, depends on the amount of investment it takes, a shorter or longer period of time, but it cannot be treated as a case that can be achieved from one moment to the next. However, I would also like to respond to István Szávay's speech from a different perspective, since in his long speech he expressed various criticisms of national policy in addition to his professional contribution. I wouldn't want to respond to every question you've asked or raised otherwise, but I would like to say one thing, perhaps, based on the experience of the last eight years, since Jobbik has been in Parliament. Blaming in Parliament, saying big words, cutting with different terms, thinking is a terrible thing for them. For example, when action had to be taken in the interests of the nation, for example, when the amendment of the Fundamental Law should have been voted against compulsory resettlement, they did not have the courage to do so when they should have done so. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] As long as you have to talk, you go, until, as I said, you have to cut without any responsibility, you can say your opinion, the action is no longer typical of them. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-56	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/869. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-09-18-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the previous term, the government presented a bill before you, which aims to repeal the ban on the loss-making operation of large commercial companies selling consumer goods on a daily basis. The 2005 CLXIV on trade. The amendment of Law 9/A by this bill exempts from the commercial law. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. It should be pointed out, first of all, that the legislation fulfilled its expectations and reduced domestic tax avoidance practices among its recipients. At the same time, there is a need for an amendment to address EU legal concerns about regulation. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is based on the prohibition of loss-making operations contained in the Trade Act. According to this regulation, a company whose net turnover is more than half from the retail sale of a daily consumer goods and its net turnover for two consecutive business years is equal to HUF 15 billion for each business year, but the balance sheet result is zero or negative for both financial years, and after the adoption of the accounts for the second financial year, it may not carry out any more activities relating to the retail sale of a daily consumer goods. This trade ban is set out in CLXIV 2005 on trade. CXII of 2014 on the amendment of the Act to ensure fair market conduct in relation to the operation of undertakings. It was introduced by law. In his reasoning, he clearly stated that the capital-powered chains could afford to take on several losses by depressing prices, thus making it impossible for companies that are unable to compete in the price competition, as they would maintain themselves from profits. The logical basis of the prohibition was, according to the reasons, that it was not realistic to operate an undertaking which continuously generates losses. Long-term loss-making operations can indirectly abuse an economic dominant position, as fair competitors will be destroyed and highly capitalised businesses will be able to take over the market. The justification of the law also indicated why the exception to the prohibition should not apply in the first four business years following the establishment of the company. In these years, traders typically make one-off, high-value investments that are not covered by revenues, but are essential for the start-up of commercial activities and are profitable in the long term. The regulation has been successful. The following figures can be drawn from its results, let me give you some examples. For example, in 2013 and 2014, a company produced a negative tax result, with a positive balance sheet from 2015 onwards, so it has a positive balance sheet since then. Every year from 2010 to 2014, another commercial company had a negative tax rate, and from 2015 onwards it showed an ever-increasing positive balance sheet. The same is true of two other companies: while these companies closed on average with a tax of HUF 8 billion in the 2014 business year, one of them closed with a positive balance of almost HUF 2 billion in 2017 and the other with a positive balance of nearly HUF 4 billion. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Despite the above results, the European Commission has found that the regulation is not in line with certain EU provisions, which led to the examination of the relevant Hungarian legislation under infringement procedures. It should be stressed that the Hungarian Government has stood in favour of regulatory alignment with EU law throughout the process, but has finally decided to draw up a new proposal, taking into account the concerns that have been raised so far, instead of the most recently proposed and rejected Hungarian regulatory proposal. However, if it becomes clear within a short time: if it becomes apparent that the proposal to be drawn up does not reach the desired objective, the issue of tightening up may be re-examined. This regulation is also expected by the government to protect businesses that compete fairly and contribute to the increasing whitening of the economy. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-58	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-09-18-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is a very interesting amendment to the law before us, since it is rarely said in connection with an amendment to the law that we would, in effect, withdraw an absolutely successful bill, which I and the Secretary of State have said here before the Parliament. And this highlights the other, a little wider issue, otherwise many of us can think a lot about the European Union and Brussels, because we know that we are debating them every day, but it is in fact in the context of this bill that sometimes the dialogue with the deaf is going on with Brussels, and also by Brussels. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] By the way, it's one of them, too. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] In addition to the declared goal, why is it that they oppose their own proposals. [[11.40]] We are well aware that trying to ban tax evasion throughout the European Union has encouraged us in 2014 to present this proposal, and, as has been said here, quite a few of the large international companies operating in Hungary are likely to have much more room for manoeuvre in international transfers than domestic companies, and they have been able to resolve that, in addition to their profitable operation, their results in Hungary are constantly being shown negatively due to tax optimization. This is why the proposal that we adopted in 2014 and entered into force from 15 onwards, which virtually forbade companies that produced such results in two consecutive years. The success of the proposal can be seen from the data reported by the Secretary of State, that international companies operating in Hungary, and I may be able to name them, such as Tesco, Spar, Auchan and Aldi, which continuously produced negative results before 2015, and subsequently their tax payment was adapted to this, that they did not all turn positive after the adoption of the law. You'd tell me why we're here today. After all, we would think that there is an objective also declared by Brussels, trying to force large international companies to admit their taxes, not to trick them, there is a law that achieves the result, then what are we talking about? We could sit back and say we're watching the events, moving in the right direction. Compared to this, the senior officials of the European Union believe that, in addition to all the objectives they have set out, they also object to the operation of the bill in addition to the visible, positive benefits of the legislation in question. Of course, the question arises as to what the sanctions might be, since the EU should prove to be at the disadvantage of positive businesses. Thus, there are a number of questions raised by the EU's procedure, in addition to the fact that it is incomprehensible to ordinary citizens or to a legislator when they go against their own goals. But as it was seen here and heard from the materials, the Union was quite serious about this, and after a long trial it was not willing to send the Hungarian Government any positive feedback on the alternative proposals sent out. And it really must be said that the Hungarian government and the Fidesz faction support us to make a gesture to either Brussels or the large international companies, that, in addition to the visible results, we look forward to the fact that without the deterrent force given by this legislation, they will otherwise stick to fair taxation and fair declarations. I trust that you will, learning from the experience of the last three years. And even if we withdraw this bill now, we have a good chance of thinking that these international companies, seeing the determination of the Hungarian government, and what Mr. Secretary of State has said is that, if necessary, we can at any time introduce a regulation similar to that which deters tax avoidance, they will return to the right path, and in the future, they will indeed be taxed in Hungary in accordance with their results and their profits in Hungary and show this in their books. So, overall, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, we support this amendment as a sign of our good intentions for both Brussels and the companies concerned; if Brussels has a problem with it, let us try to find another solution and withdraw it. But once again, this whole matter is a good feature of the sometimes incomprehensible logic of the European Union, that we have achieved a result, that we are withdrawing a good law, even if we can agree with the goals either in Brussels or at home. So, Honourable House, Honourable Parliament, this is a good learning tale about the regulation of the European Union for us, especially in a field like daily consumer goods trade, but let us really see that this good will bring fruit and that the taxation of international companies will not change in line with the last three years, so they will not return to the path of tax evasion. With this in mind, we support the proposal from the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-60	Thank you, Congressman Satmary. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers, Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, would present the group's position in a total of 15 minutes.
u2018-09-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the pro-government representatives, Mr Secretary of State, I must say that, of course, in line with the European Union's infringement procedure, the Jobbik faction also supports the repeal of this legislation. I think it is important to say that we are talking about a commercial law in which a tax and accounting procedure is being organised. We agree with the aim, it is important to regulate it in accordance with the principle of continuing the business, as this is the accounting principle, and this legislation is in relation to it, because if, for two years, a company achieves a negative or zero result, which obtains more than half of its net turnover by selling a daily consumer goods, it is obliged to suspend that activity. I did not say, for a reason, that it was a result, because in the legislation itself, which is now before us, there is a misrepresentation of the result: you have written the result of the balance sheet, this is the result of the tax. I think it is important to highlight which category of results we are talking about. And Mr. Secretary of State also gave a balance sheet result, which has not been in Hungarian accounting for several years. So I think it is very important to say that these laws should be dealt with in their place; it is not certain that they should be dealt with in the Trade Act, but that there is a law on the rules of taxation that entered into force on 1 January 2018, whether we look at the accounting law or there are provisions in the Civil Code that apply to businesses, companies, there is a place for them, and this is not a coincidence. Allow me to tell you a personal favourite here about the Hungarian legislation, the government's tax activities placed in an unlucky place. In the Water Utilities Act, we find a VAT provision, the municipalities had to hand over these utility assets, and they made it free of charge to the service providers. In this legislation, we find that this constitutes a public donation under the General Traffic Tax Act. I ask you, if we have a law on general sales tax, in which we have written down what constitutes a public donation, its tax rate is listed, how long would it have taken to put an extra point in there, so that the transfer of the water utility asset under certain conditions, which is in the Water Facility Service Act, would be added to this. I think, and I agree, Mr Secretary of State, that another draft legislation will be drawn up if they see these companies once again seeking to close these years with negative or zero tax results, but there is a place for that, and there should be a place for that. [[11.50]] I am very confident that the honourable government and preparatory professionals will place these rules where they belong, in the Tax and Accounting Act, and that their opportunities will be exploited. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-09-18-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-09-18-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Trade Act 9/A. The 2015 amendment, which entered into force, is considered to be successful, given that from 2015 no company subject to the regulation has produced a negative taxed result, unlike in previous years. As regards the European Commission, it has already been mentioned here that it has examined the prohibition at that stage in an EU pilot procedure and then in an infringement procedure, and the Commission has concluded that it is not in accordance with the fundamental provisions of the European Union on the freedom of establishment laid down in Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and on the free movement of capital set out in Article 63. However, unfortunately, the Commission could not be convinced of the consistency of the Hungarian position with EU law. However, in view of the decision taken by the European Commission, which the Hungarian Government respects, T/896. It repeals, as of 31 December 2018, the sections of the Trade Act which the Commission considers to be of concern and develops and presents to the European Commission a proposal that takes into account the concerns that have been raised. Given the proportionate nature of the measure, it is expected and we hope that it will meet the expectations of the Commission and the government, and that the new tax legislation will have the same deterrent effect and will be able to demonstrate the economic whitening power of the previous measure, since it is still necessary to amend the law in order to protect creditors, to protect domestic tax revenues, to combat abuses and to preserve the coherence of the tax system, which is supported by KDNP. Thank you very much for your support and attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-18-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-09-18-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, This amendment of the law is interesting, and first of all, the MSZP faction will support it. When the Retail Act was amended, I was already here in Parliament, and there was quite an interesting debate here. I am glad that Kristóf Szatmáry is the author, because he also said that this amendment was submitted in 2014 against Auchan, Spar, ALDI, Tesco and the large supermarket chains. And then we didn't talk about it here, and we also said in the parliamentary debate that this amendment didn't say anything about, say, CBA, COOP, Real. I'm just bringing up the CBA, which has specific political ties to the ruling party. At the time, we said that in the parliamentary debate, and you constantly argued that you would protect small Hungarian shops with this amendment of the law; the reason why we have to intervene so seriously with this law is because Hungarian small shops should be preferred in Hungary. Then I would like to read to you an article published this year, May 22, 2018 on how successful your economic policy has been in recent years about how they have been able to protect these small shops in Hungary. Only 4 thousand retail shops closed last year in Hungary. In 2017, the number of domestic retail shops decreased by about 4,000. The number of shops in Hungary has decreased, and even the number of settlements where there is at least one place to buy can be reduced. Only in 18 villages last year, the last convenience store closed. There are two main reasons behind the termination of the business: labour shortages and the increase in costs caused by the minimum wage. The process didn't start last year, by the way. Over the last five years, the indicators have become really dramatic. Since 2012, 21 thousand shops have been closed, so instead of 154 thousand, they can only go to 130,000 shops in Hungary. In addition, today there are 228 settlements in the country where there is no local shop, while 5 years ago this number was only 156. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that the efforts that you have referred to as how you would like to protect these retail shops in Hungary have, in fact, failed, my fellow Members. What we have always said: exactly these small businesses cannot solve the tension caused by the minimum wage in Hungary, the terrible shortage of labour that we have been saying for years, that the government should handle it, these businesses simply cannot handle it in Hungary anymore. And if we are talking about how to repel these large supermarket chains I will return to my previous sentences, then I think that we cannot make an exception to the Hungarian supermarket chains either. However, let me say to Kristóf Szatmáry: when we talk about the fact that everyone in Hungary has to comply with the laws in taxation, I would recommend this to you in your companies specifically, that this applies to everyone, if it is fidesz, if not fidesz. Everyone in Hungary should be subject to the law. I think that no one should be an exception to this. It is welcome that sometimes recommendations from the European Union are adopted. I think you could take that in other cases. If we talk about how democratic arrangements work in Hungary, how rights have been taken from institutions, how the social field works, how corruption works in Hungary, then a lot of recommendations from the European Union could be adopted, but then I will bring something else up, and a lot of recommendations from the opposition could also be adopted, so we will support this amendment. And I am asking you to respond in the next period to the serious problems that we should not come here with worse data after six months, that more and more small shops have ceased, and that new settlements are again in a situation where not only the doctor's office, not only the school, but also the kindergarten, but the last shop is now closed. I believe that you should be given an effective answer to these questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-09-18-66	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-09-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I understand that Fidesz does not like to go to Brussels very much because he has been constantly slapped, and this law is also about the fact that after one of the failed infringement procedures, he was forced to amend or withdraw the highly discriminatory law that he was trying to implement legislation favourable to his allies, his political friends and his economic supporters. Fidesz has a very bad series in Brussels and Strasbourg when it does. The Sargentini report was adopted by a two-thirds majority, which states that in the last eight years the Hungarian government has committed dozens of crimes against the Hungarian people. [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties.]] The Sargentini report was also adopted by two thirds of the MEPs. So Fidesz's party family also says that Viktor Orbán and his party's politics are inconclusive. In fact, it was also accepted that the People's Party is not campaigning with the issue of migration, which Fidesz thought was a single and exclusive issue, but is trying to tell the positive results of the campaign that are linked to this party family, in order to put Viktor Orbán and Fidesz in the background in this campaign. Moreover, if there is exclusion and the Fidesz is shamefully cut out of its own party family, this should not have any consequences in the European Parliament campaign. [[12.00]] So one of the elements of such a series of failures, which lies before us here on the table, is that Fidesz is forced to withdraw its bill pushed out of power in Hungary and its discriminatory law that has been in force for years, which is clearly said by the CBA Lazarus brothers, and Fidesz, a good vassal, or at least in the hope of baksis, passed this law through the Hungarian Parliament. Dialogue would be the happiest [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Who is Dialogue?]] If this law had really been about taxing large companies. But we know that Fidesz policy is about helping the top 1 percent, benefiting the top 1 percent, benefiting large companies and their ownership. Therefore, the 19 per cent corporate tax was reduced to 9 per cent, so tax reliefs are granted in addition to the fact that the actual tax rate is about 5 per cent for the largest companies, but some people pay a company tax of zero forints in particular. That is why the offshore tax was introduced to companies that have used the country only to pay as little tax as possible on their profits shown here, so that they would not have to pay that money, and we could list further how they favour, let's say, the banks that have raised a record profit of 700 billion from the pockets of Hungarian people and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. So that's Fidesz' policy. Fidesz does not have a policy of taxing large companies in trade. This was only for the purpose of obtaining an unfair competitive advantage from CBA. The CBA that we know provides employees with about half, at least white, half as much income as other retail chains whipped by government parties. So, if Fidesz were to represent 99 percent of the interests, it would first ensure that small shops do not have to close in many settlements, as my fellow Member Bangóné Borbély Ildikó prescribed, how many tens of thousands of places have had to give up the possibility of purchasing basic articles - or at least to ensure that the retail workers are not allowed to receive decent wages, to provide us decent working conditions, not in the form of a shop close on Sunday, but, for example, in the form of a 100 percent wage supplement on Sunday; or, for example, in the form of a code of decent work, which Fidesz once again did not show willingness in 2012 to adopt a code of work taking into account the interests of workers. Instead, he also put Hungarian people, Hungarian workers and employees at a disadvantage by allowing the pressure of the large corporate lobby, the pressure of the employer's side, and by serving the capital. So I would be terribly happy once again if you had served that purpose and served it well in recent years, this law, which you are now forced to withdraw. But this is a false, false justification that we have heard from my fellow Members at the Fidesz-KDNP in recent minutes. The real aim was clearly discrimination and support for the Fidesz Alliance oligarchs, and therefore the Dialogue will be very happy to support the abolition of this law and we are very happy to assist the next stage of Fidesz's series of defeats in Brussels, which will take place with this vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-09-18-68	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For two minutes, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát asked for the floor.
u2018-09-18-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, However, I would like to say, in silence, that I cannot identify with the principle of "the worse, the better." So in any case, I will not be happy if the Government of Hungary has to back down at any level by pressure in Brussels, and I say that in this case you should not have backed down. So the true manly attitude to spirit courage should have been demonstrated now. You might think it's funny, Mr. Secretary, I think it's a serious, meat-cutting issue. I would also like to say, by the way, in part, in your defense, but do not accept, if you do not want it, I do not want it for you, but for your colleagues with a much more decent attitude, that this is not just about the CBA at all. I myself, as a former member of the Consumer Protection Committee, was able to get to know in detail the reports detailing the maladministration in Hungary. I gotta tell you, the CBA wasn't in the lead. I have to say, here the abuses of foreign networks were industrial and measurable in billions, with brutally high amounts. Indeed, it was another Hungarian chain, with a huge series of smaller shops, which produced most of the consumer maladministration. What I see is that this question is not just black or white. With regard to the CBA network, too, very honest entrepreneurs, very decent entities are switching with those who, unfortunately, are actually using abuse. At the same time, I would very much like this debate to always be an approach from the point of view of the Hungarian entrepreneur, the Hungarian worker, and their preference would be the first aspect. What pains me is that this would be possible, that the Hungarian legal system would offer countless opportunities and, by the way, I miss the very courage of the government in the form of access to foreign networks, because in recent years we have seen only cosmetic measures in this area. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member has also applied for a regular, longer speech. I give the floor to Z. Carpathian Daniel.
u2018-09-18-71	Mr President, Dear House, Naive is the opposition representative when applying for a normal speech, and he believes that there are other interests in this debate. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] where appropriate, the thoughts of the former keynote speaker group will inseminated former fellow Members to apply for a speech. I don't even promise I'll be the last one to apply. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] This question shows everything about Hungarian economic policy and the Pharisee attitude of the government. What happened? I could support the law myself, if not in all its elements, but in all its principles. By the way, it was the end of a long battle with certain elements, because if you remember, my fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, fought a great deal with my fellow Member at the time, so that, in the case of a fine on foreign chains, the limit they could receive as a maximum was not to stop at the 100-200 million item, that is to say, up to 2 billion. In this, there was essentially a public agreement between the well-spoken national sentimental representatives here in the House. It is very painful, by the way, that since then these constructive professional debates have been virtually extinct. The Committee on Consumer Protection was ploughed by Fidesz itself. Fidesz itself terminated the separate Committee on Consumer Protection, incorporated it into the Committee on Economic Affairs, where, although it could continue working in sub-committee form with three members on consumer protection issues, the chances of this being possible to hold functional meetings were essentially zero, and if the meeting is not a quorum, it is impossible to call an expert on it, to invite the media. So the Fidesz let me liquefy this area. We have already seen, in 2014, when this well-intentioned shift took place, that yes, foreign-based trade chains should be put in check, their activities should be sanctioned if they are characterised by excesses. But what happened next? Prior to the government's withdrawal in Brussels, these multi-companies, through their smart lawyers, came up with the idea that, with the appropriate diversification of their portfolio, they were able to break down their own activities into units exactly the same size as before, which falls out of the scope of the so-called special tax, food chain monitoring fee and others, so that they could essentially stay out of public burdens as before. In such a case, what does a government do to monitor its own activities? He's running a monitoring system. He examines the person on whom I have imposed that tax burden as intended to be involved in public burdens. When you had to see it, if you hadn't seen it, we told you here in Parliament, even when it happened, you should have brought in another bill and fixed this whole system in such a way that the conditions of market surveillance would be corrected and examined that there would be market developments, where appropriate, a price increase, a tax payment, a non-payment of taxes. Obviously, it would have been possible to move across the market without any Member of Parliament having directly had to enter or enter into market economy conditions, which, by the way, I would not support. I would like to say that these multinational companies, these of you, have completely avoided public burdens, and even the government's strategic contracts, its behaviour there, shows that the government is actually caressing these companies. [[12.10]] So it was scary to compare that this current Fidesz government provides much higher support and non-refundable support to multinational companies than its predecessors, called Balliberal, compared to the period of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, which I did not respect very much. This is being developed through many secret strategic contracts, and let us not forget the greatest crime of strategic contracts in this circle. This was that the slow catch-up of wages was not even set as a strategic goal. This was precisely the answer of Jobbik's Wage Union initiative, and although the Government of Hungary has not heard the words of the times, even the goals of the Brussels apparatus, which I have not respected so much, have included equal pay at least on an ideological level, so that, in the economic field, we have seen a dewy Brussels ahead of you in this area. After all, you are not so interested in the wages of Hungarians at multinational companies, CBA, Tesco, or even Coop's wages as to be able to stroke those coming from abroad with tax incentives and non-refundable subsidies. So in the context of this bill, we also call on you to take this process much further in Brussels, because let us be honest: what would have happened if you had now resisted, argued, beat the table? What would have happened was that the Hungarian authorities had two months to respond to the objections presented by the EP. It's a letter of formal notice that we're talking about here. What did you do? At the first snap, they withdraw the entire law, abolish everything, and restore the original state. Then, of course, they will try to trick themselves into other legislative proposals so that they can keep what they can with the permission of Brussels. On the other hand, if no reply to this letter of formal notice is received, or Hungary receives further comments which cannot be considered satisfactory, the European Commission may, however, decide in a conditional manner only to send a so-called reasoned opinion to Budapest as the next step in the procedure. So you are now so afraid of the reasoned opinion that you will also try to eliminate immediately the efforts towards public burdens in Hungary instead of finally boxing a good one with Brussels, on a substantive issue, which may also be about the Hungarian people's wallet, their daily livelihood, the Code of Work, and also about safety at work. We could bring the number of accidents at work here, also a consumer protection issue, which has increased by one and a half times since 2010 since you were on the government. That's what we should be dealing with. These are the real meat issues. And even if this reasoned opinion had been received, the Commission could then take a number of steps, also conditionally, to bring this matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is still a court of any kind. So there are many open questions, open gates throughout this system, and you would have plenty of opportunities to fight for Hungarian interests. I think that this would be a credible struggle, if, say, Mr Szatmáry State Secretary, whose work in this field I respect very much, would stand up and say that for the interests of Hungary, for the sake of Hungarian entrepreneurs, he will clash with such forces in Brussels and Strasbourg, and he will have my support in this. I know that it is not fashionable in today's political world that one party member supports another's work, I undertake to support any representative in this House for the benefit of the Hungarian people. I hope that this is mutual, where appropriate. But I also have to say that it takes courage, and to do so, your senior leaders will finally make the decision not only to try to fight on the stage of politics. For me, when I support the Prime Minister in the fight against the quota, I really do support him, but it's a bit of a comeback to me that in 2015 in the United Nations, the head of Fidesz wanted a world quota. It's been a few years, and we're looking at the opposite. I understand that the years pass and the times pass, eons change, but still, fellow Members, credibility should be essential in this area. Once again, I would like to encourage the government to stand up to the interests of Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian chains and Hungarian workers, and to stand up to Brussels, Jobbik will support the Government of Hungary in this battle if it is really about representing the interests of Hungarian people, it is about Hungarian entrepreneurs. I would add that I understand that here some people call the proposal lex CBA that we have ahead of us. I would rather approach and approach it from the point of view that without multinational chains, networks and declaration of war on interests, public burdens cannot be created in Hungary. And if there is no public burden, the one-way cash pump, which Hungary has suffered for many decades, cannot stop. Not only can we have a common goal, but we should have this money pump finally stopped, and this robbing mechanism should be removed, because Hungary has suffered a lot of losses for many decades. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-72	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Still for two minutes? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel nodds.]] You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-09-18-73	Mr President, Dear House, I find it humiliating that they will want to express some kind of reaction to what we have said in the closet. Absolutely cowardly, unmanly conduct, especially from a secretary of state who laughed at some of the opposition speeches and one of the keynote speeches. This may be very funny for you, Mr. Secretary of State, but the fact is that we are talking about the jobs and livelihoods of Hungarian people here. And I'm gonna ask you one more thing if you give me the answer, okay? Respond, please, to Viktor Orbán's excellent speech in Saudi Arabia, where what were the two moments in which he tried to attract working capital to Hungary? This was one half of the cheap wages and the other is the code of work that is sufficiently flexible. Secretary of State, explain to us how you have thought to extend the word "flexicurity" on this issue. How do you think that the conditions in the workplaces of the Hungarian people are appropriate, that the safe environment they deserve, and, speaking of which, I am interested in catching up on wages. So not only is Jobbik's Wage Union initiative, but, let's say, a kind of European catch-up in relation to Eastern-Central Europe moving you and what kind of ideas do you have on this issue? I look forward to your meaningful reaction. If, in the form of a debate, we have failed in a manly way, so that we can respond to this, then at least do it here with a braked foam for our sake, and I will look forward to this braked foam response very, very much. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-09-18-75	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the supporting contributions and for any proposals that may be taken into account later, precisely because, in most cases, the amendment was supported by the contributors, and they understood the purpose of the 2014 amendment at the time, they acknowledged its results; as we have heard in the introductions and in the comments, by transferring its results from a number of negative to positive, it proves that the purpose of the bill was both good and effective. We hope that this trend will continue in the next period, and if there is no other experience and other positive results from this law, which I doubt, one thing is certain: with the help of the law, we have been able to prove to international trading companies in Hungary that they can run a commercial chain well, they can run chains of stores in Hungary profitablely, and they can not keep doing this with zero or even minus results. But two, perhaps even three, experiences can be extracted from today's comments. One of them. I am sorry that our fellow Member Bangón is no longer here. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély talks a few lines back from his seat with his fellow Members.]] One may be that the MSZP may not be overall, but their representative here regrets the increase in the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, from the people who received it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I did not say that, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Looks like they're blaming him for... sorry I didn't see him because he's sitting back. They do not seem to feel it, they do not talk to people, and they do not see the enormous result of the recent increase in the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage; they have not only helped them, but also the higher wage earners, as real wages have increased significantly in Hungary over the past few years. [[12.20]] The other experience is that Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, is pleased to see multinational companies taking the money out of here with their heart shovels and trucks, and, let's say, they do not almost tax that he said: they are not taxing in Hungary, but they are taking their tax dollars abroad, and they are able to benefit citizens who live there, the tax forints that could otherwise be used for the benefit of the citizens here. So he was pleased to hear that the French, German and British citizens benefited from taxes on the money paid by Hungarian citizens. This is not the first time that you have spoken against your own country and done so with your often almost anarchist manifestations, but we know that, and we take your comments seriously and your comments seriously. And a third, a two-and-a-half experience is that everyone on the pro-government side listened with great patience to Dániel Z. Carpathian's comment on the same subject and with the same thoughts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-76	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. There will be a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the draft law on the publication of the agreement on police cooperation until closure. The government referral is T/1357. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-09-18-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Security is the most important Community value today in Europe and worldwide. This is what determines our daily lives, and it also determines the conditions for our prosperity. In line with the efforts of the past eight years, thanks to and as a result, we can say that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and in the world today. The Hungarian Government supports all measures and cross-border cooperation aimed at maintaining security, fighting organised crime and preventing terrorism. The agreement before Parliament strengthens cooperation between Macedonian and Hungarian police bodies, whose primary objective is to coordinate joint action against terrorism and organised crime. This type of agreement has already been concluded with a number of neighbouring countries, such as Austria, Slovakia, Slovenia, Romania and Serbia. On the basis of the Convention, it will be possible for the authorities of the two States to exchange experience and information, in particular on the prevention of planned acts of terrorism, the methods and technical means used in acts of terrorism and related other criminal offences. The authorities of the Parties shall provide information and information on the offences committed and their perpetrators in the field of organised crime. In implementing this agreement, the authorities of the two countries share their information, experience and data in the fight against illegal immigration, trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Dear Parliament, This agreement before the Honourable Parliament serves the right purposes, meets the national interests of Hungary and takes into account the security of the Hungarian people. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-78	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-09-18-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In addition to illegal border crossings, the migration wave that started in 2015 brought with it a number of other risk factors. The risks and dangers associated with illegal migration are not just about not knowing who enters the country, with what background or with what purpose. Stepping over has a serious cost, which, in one way or another, is driven in from people who want to cross the border, and smugglers are ruthless in this area as well. Following the closure of the Balkan route, the number of illegal border crossings has fallen significantly, but the related threats have not been eliminated. Where there is no order reserved, criminal groups begin to expand their activities. Drug trafficking, smuggling, crime against property just to mention some of the problems that we have to fight together. Macedonia has had excellent cooperation in the area of security for several years. For the eighth time this year, the Hungarian police have served the Macedonian border, who have supported their Macedonian colleagues in the detection of illegal border crossings, the production of smugglers and the detention of illegal immigrants. On 24 August 2017, the Minister for the Interior of the Republic of Macedonia visited Hungary and concluded an intergovernmental agreement concerning police cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian and Macedonian governments are committed to developing bilateral relations in order to maintain public order so that they can act effectively together in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and other crimes related to illegal border crossings. This joint action shall include, inter alia, mutual assistance, the search for missing persons, the search for stolen objects or vehicles or the exchange of information and experience, taking into account the principles and data protection aspects contained in the agreement between the two parties. Ladies and gentlemen, This agreement further improves the excellent Hungarian-Macedonian cooperation and makes joint action more effective to reduce the above-mentioned crimes. In the light of what you just said, please support the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-09-18-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If migration has been mentioned here again in the House's walls on a propaganda basis, it is also worth mentioning that if we miss the settlement bonds system and decently knocking migrants, then the picture that Mr. State Secretary and my Fidesz colleague, Zoltán Fenyvesi, have tried to outline is far from as positive. But we can indeed speak of positive points in relation to the proposal and agreement before us, and Jobbik can, of course, welcome any convention that will help us to work with other countries, including Macedonia, in this case, in order to detect crimes as soon as possible, to protect our country and Hungary from further crimes. However, without this Convention, it would have been possible, in the last three years, for the government, in cooperation with law enforcement agencies in the Balkan countries, to explore the trafficking of human beings networks that have no doubt helped migrants to reach our borders. This is particularly true in the case of one of the subjects of the convention before us, its country, the Republic of Macedonia, which is one of the main migration routes. I would therefore like to give a constructive signal to the Secretary of State, and therefore to the government, that Hungary would certainly have something to do in this area, because in its access to the Hungarian border of many immigrants from Asia and Africa, well-organised companies that accompanied these people from the start to the end. Unfortunately, we don't hear much about criminal proceedings against smugglers in our country or in the surrounding countries. [[12.30]] That is why we want to ensure that we not only conclude agreements with the various countries affected by immigration routes, these are very important and, of course, it is essential to fix the pillars on which we can cooperate with them on the subject of immigration, but also to make effective cooperation between countries in the everyday investigation of the ongoing crimes, whether it is also the EU Member States or the candidate countries, as in our case. Not only should conventions indicate the intention of states to protect their citizens from the transit of migrant masses through organised crime gangs, but also to actually carry out this activity. Such police cooperation, as has been said in the expozee, already exists with other countries south of us and to the west, but we do not see a meaningful result of these, and in terms of both prevention and retaliation, the authorities of the countries would have made an effective contribution. Of course, it is a good example of what has been said here with regard to Macedonia, where a name change is taking place, and it seems that their intention to join the European Union can speed up in this way, and now it seems that it can become a reality in the foreseeable future, at least that the negotiations can continue in substance, because there was a serious name dispute with the Greeks; but now we have reached an agreement with Northern Macedonia, and now the ball is bouncing primarily on the other side of the space. It is therefore important that certain cooperation to which reference has already been made can deliver a meaningful result in practice. So the Jobbik Group of the Movement for Hungary asks that, in addition to the Eligible conclusion of similar conventions, it has not even occurred to us that we should not vote in favour of declaring this agreement, the government should take a decisive action against smugglers and other criminals, as this would make a major contribution to reducing migratory pressure. High-level reconnaissance and strict punishment would significantly discourage those who are trying to make a profit. Therefore, we must do something about this subject, with these signals and requests to the government, to support the bill for the adoption of the Convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2018-09-18-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-09-18-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. It serves the right goals and meets the interests of the Hungarian people how simple the world would be if we could stand up in each case with this sentence and say that yes, he is right, and we could move on. The problem is that politics is not such a simple thing, there are always tiny details in which, if we go into it, we see that we are thinking differently from the same thing. But that's not going to be the point, and I'm only telling you this because that's the end of it, and I'm really stuck with that thought. We're in a very specific situation. Obviously, it is right here in the lead vocal round to try to present in some form the items in which we are debating. I, too, would like to comment on the fact that, in fact, we are talking about a right and a good direction, and that these bilateral relations are necessary. I'd like to give you a weird explanation as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I've always had a dilemma as to why the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is listed in the United Nations as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We have accepted the term the Republic of Macedonia. What are we gonna do? My fellow Member, Jobbik, began to say, "What if they can really push it through Macedonian parliament?" Although I'm telling you, the Macedonian president is vetoing the decision for now. So if it's Northern Macedonia, we won't have to negotiate again. We were not here before, Mr. Secretary, we were talking about an Ipoly Bridge, which is now spinning in Parliament, I don't know how long it's been since it's been reduced from 12 tonnes to 3.5 tonnes. Let us not conclude that this is an excellent treaty, and then just because the Republic of Macedonia changes its name, if any, we must return to this again. I would also like to say that an exciting area, an exciting world, and that Europe would benefit if the South Balkans were to be part of the European Union and NATO as quickly as possible, because the guarantee that what you have said here, what you have said in the Convention, can become a reality. The question I had in mind was whether the Macedonian police and the Hungarian police, the domestic authorities or other competent bodies, so the convention says several times, there is a separate Hungarian rapporteur among the few thousand police officers, I do not know how many there are in Macedonia, but obviously there cannot be an extremely strong army and police, there is a separate man who wakes up every morning and tells himself that this is a Hungarian matter, or does not belong to the Hungarians how it can work in life? It is true here, too, in the last few days, as I see it, that the essence of the major political debates is that if there is a report of 12 points, one point is taken out and communication techniques are attached to it; here, too, we are putting the essence of cooperation in 16 points, but everyone who has spoken here is clearly talking only about illegal migration. But summa summarum, I do not want to continue this discussion, just and exclusively asked for the floor to indicate that we consider this type of agreement to be important; bilateral agreements of this type, especially in the neighbourhood state, make it extremely important to improve the mood in those minor crimes, although significant in determining people's lives. So, Mr Secretary of State, what I would like to say here to you and to this House is that the Socialist Party Group will support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one has applied for a two-minute speech and a further speech. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. It says yes. Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2018-09-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, It is easy for me to do so, because my fellow Members, speaking on behalf of their fractions, have given their support to the bill; so Zoltán Fenyvesi, on behalf of Fidesz, thank you, Member. Mr Tibor Bana spoke to him on behalf of the Jobbik Group and called for the fight against human trafficking. I would like to inform you that the Government of Hungary is very much in favour of the Macedonian border protection, as our police regularly support the border protection of the Macedonians, they are regularly present in order to protect the border. I think we should thank our police officers for their service, because they are protecting not only Macedonians, Macedonia, but also our security. And what it means is the fight against human trafficking, honourable Member, I would like to say that the Hungarian police are taking part in this fight with strengthened forces. He considers the fight against smugglers to be a very important task. There's regular captures, regular experiments, let's start there. After all, the Balkan route, the Western Balkans, is still alive and is still a threat. At the Hungarian border, the unity of the threefold protection, the living protection, the fence and the legal protection will prove and ensure that the current security situation is maintained. Nevertheless, smugglers really do always try, and we, the police, are doing everything they can to stop them, to catch them. It is also important to recon, as you said, and we believe that there is always more to be done, more to be done every day in the interests of security, in the fight against human trafficking, in order to protect borders than we did yesterday. So we consider this to be an activity, a value to be taken care of, to be sacrificed, the resources and conditions of which must be provided. So I can say this, Mr President, that the Hungarian police are doing everything they can to combat human trafficking. It is the duty of the court to impose judgments. It is, isn't it, a separate branch of power, I don't want to deal with that right now. Mr Gyula Molnár MSZP MEP thank you for your statement of support. He suggested that if Macedonia changed its name, it should be renegotiated. You don't have to renegotiate because it's already been signed, then it was called the Republic of Macedonia, as you can read in the treaty. In any case, that is his name now, and therefore there is no need to renegotiate in accordance with the rules of international law. [[12.40]] This is the information I received from my colleagues, which I just shared with you. I'm sure that's correct information. Thank you for your support. Indeed, I would also like to respond to the fact that much could be done in the absence of the Convention, and we have done so far. Mr President, Mr President, you have suggested that there is a quasi-Hungarian rapporteur or rapporteur for Macedonia for the respective contracting parties. I think I have said so far that we have already concluded similar agreements with many countries, and this has an established international practice, which also works with the countries that are parties to the treaties, so it will work with Macedonia. I believe that the adoption of this treaty is also an important step in terms of security, so thank you for your contributions and I would ask my honourable fellow Members and the groups to adopt the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-86	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the draft law between Hungary and the Portuguese Republic on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information until closure. The government referral is T/1359. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-09-18-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The adoption of the bill before this House, the conclusion of the convention, will help to strengthen and succeed cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. After the entry into force of the QA Act in 2010, the professional work to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries began. Accordingly, our country has already concluded an agreement with the governments of 22 countries on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information already published in the Act. Such countries, with whom we have concluded agreements, such as Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Latvia, France, the Republic of Korea, the Kingdom of Belgium, Italy, Slovenia, the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Sweden. For several countries, the work to prepare for negotiations on similar conventions has already been completed. The final text of the conventions is currently being established. The Convention between Hungary and the Portuguese Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information was signed by the Contracting Parties in Lisbon on 28 June 2018. The Convention aims primarily to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between countries. In this context, security cooperation between the Parties shall be regulated and designated by the competent authorities. They shall provide for the compatibility of each classification level with each other and for a procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement currently under discussion meets Hungary's national interests and strengthens cooperation between countries in criminal matters. In this regard, I would ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to discuss the bill, to support it and to adopt it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-88	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-09-18-89	Mr President, Dear House, On 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, which replaced the Law on the former National Security Inspectorate. This has not only created a legal but also an institutional system for classified data, thus fulfilling legal harmonisation obligations. The 2009 CLV. It is also of paramount importance because it has created the legal bases which not only allowed bilateral confidentiality agreements to be concluded, but also allowed them to be applied. In view of this, such agreements have been signed with many European countries, such as the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Poland, the Czech Republic and the Republic of Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, This bilateral agreement ensures that our country fulfils its international commitments and promotes deeper cooperation with the exchange of classified information and mutual protection. The agreement specifies what a breach of the safety of concepts such as classified contracts, classified information or classified information means. It shall, inter alia, lay down the security principles to be observed in the course of the activities covered by the Convention and regulate the destruction and reproduction of classified information. In conclusion, it can therefore be concluded that this Convention establishes, inter alia, a framework of protection for the exchange or creation of classified information between the two Contracting Parties, or defines cooperation and competent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what you just said, please support the convention. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Jenő Manninger. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-09-18-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified data on 14 December 2009. This law has been replaced by the Act on State Secrets and Secrets of Service and by the Act on National Security Supervision. As a result, Hungary has been able to open negotiations with other countries on agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. This is the result of the agreement before us.Since 2010, our country has already concluded agreements of the same nature with many European countries. The Portuguese and Hungarian governments signed this agreement on 28 June 2018, and the Government submitted the proposal on 11 September 2018. It is positive that it has come before us relatively quickly and we can negotiate about it. Although, in this case, it is a proposal of a kind that I think the Parliament will adopt by consensus, since at most there may be disputes on small points, since these conventions contain basically standard rules. I would just like to refer to Article 10 (1), indicating that it is worth looking at the fact that here we have a technical record of the interests of our country in terms of the exchange and protection of classified information, since copies and translations of classified information are included here in the bill, with regard to the protection of the original classification marking and the data thus produced. The number of replicated and inverted specimens should be limited to what is necessary for official purposes, which is stated here. I would just like to point out that it is worth exploring this point in such a way as to ensure that the interests of our country are not harmed in any way, since, where appropriate, there may be a situation where such data may be available to persons who are not entitled to do so. Therefore, the number of replicated specimens should be limited to what is necessary and the guidance should be clarified from this point of view. This is also relevant to the agreement before us and with the Portuguese Republic, but overall, I would also like to indicate that when we negotiate agreements of a similar nature and discuss them at parliamentary level, this aspect must be highlighted, and it is important to take a separate record of the delivery of duplicated or reverse copies, precisely to whom these were made, who took over. Therefore, it is worth strengthening this point here in order to ensure that these data are provided in a satisfactory manner and that the national security interests of our country are not violated either in this respect or in other similar agreements. [[12.50]] So with this short sign that I wanted to do to the Secretary of State, I once again stress that the Jobbik faction can support the announcement of this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for two minutes, no further speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-09-18-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Jenő Manninger, who, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, expressed his support for the proposal and Mr Tibor Bana, who spoke on behalf of the Jobbik Group, for the proposal. Thank you for your comment, thank you for your statement of support, and I would also like your support in voting, and I would also like the votes of the other groups or fellow Members and their support for the adoption of the proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-94	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision on the Memorial Day of farmers will follow until closure. Presentation by Béla Turi-Kovács, Miklós Simon, Sándor Farkas, István Jakab, György Czerván, János Bencsik and Sándor Font, Fidesz, and László Szászfalvi KDNP, representatives H/893. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-09-18-95	Mr President, Dear House, When I say that we owe our old debt to a Hungarian social group and even the pillars of Hungary, I do not exaggerate when I say that this old debt here is about a thousand years old, and in the history of mankind it is about 12,000 years old. Indeed, the history, civilization, and culture of mankind began when somewhere in the Middle East, where there is still a war, and where it does not want to be peace, but where people once realized that land can be made to build culture and civilization; that's when we started towards something, the future of humanity. In Hungary, when we created this country, this country was created in a very short period of time, in about a century and a half, a social order was established, where those who maintained, dependent on society existed, worked hard to ensure that society as a whole would remain and had little or no rights. Yeah, they were the farmers we call their names, they were just peasant society. It was this society that had to live in the knowledge that his future was determined not by himself, but by others; who had to live in the knowledge that they were only above him, they were somehow inferior. I think that this society, this form of society, has been able to survive for many centuries because in this society there was still a strong love of patriotism, a strong love of patriotism that has proved many times that, yes, they are the keepers of the country. Let's think about some of the great events in our history. Think about it: could Bocskai freedom fight without the Hungarian peasant, the Hungarian landmaker? Could Rákóczi be a freedom fight without the Hungarian peasant, the Hungarian landmaker? And were they not the ones who fought the wars that were not only the Austro-Hungary, but also the remaining parts of Hungary, against all other celebrities? Yes, such was the war of succession, the seven-year war, the wars against Napoleon, all of these wars of perseverance, where the Hungarian peasant was placed, where the Hungarian peasant not only provided food, gave not only the material, but also fought heroically. And that's what the two world wars were all about, even for all its nonsense. When we look at a heroic monument somewhere, in any settlement, in any village, what do we see there? Isn't it the local farmers, the local peasants, who sacrificed their lives to keep this country alive? So today's proposal is to give this society a worthy day of remembrance, to give a day on which we remember that there is still a layer of Hungarian society, there is a layer of social and Hungarian consciousness that is willing to sacrifice for this country, willing to sacrifice the greater half of its life for this country. Dear House, I think that when we talk about this social layer, we are not simply talking about today's farmers, I am also talking about the Hungarian village. Every person who lives in this environment, and who devotes his life to farming one way or another, his life form, must appear somewhere in this memorial day. I think it's more than that. The part of Hungarian society that we like to call intellectuals today, even though it often does not behave as if it were intellectuals, well, where does this larger part of Hungarian society come from, where does it come from? From where our peasant ancestors came from. From there, they came from this society, and these are its retention forces now, and remain the solid pillars of this country in the future. It is also about this when we ask Parliament to vote for this Memorial Day. And why István Nagyatadi Szabó? Perhaps I can answer with an inscription that I would like to quote accurately. There is a statue of Nagyatádi in a sculpture garden next to the Reformed Church of Erdőcsokonya, and there is a description here:. My political operation led to neither blood nor tears. This is the man, the first or perhaps the first person in the political context that we like to call a decision maker. He got out of the way of a six-moon peasant at that time was almost as difficult as it is today. Yes, a six-moon peasant had to get to the point where he was among the decision makers in this country. Fate has led the Hungarian tragedy to create such a situation in 1920 that the Kis Farmer Party, on which yesterday a left-wing party, which has now become a dwarf party, smiled and laughed, well, that Little Farmer Party was then a decisive force for this country. No one, István Bethlen, could have started a government without the Kisgazda Party, and István Nagyatádi Szabó, who had the majority in that parliament, had the capacity to serve the country, so that he could say, yes, I accept that this community, this Christian and this peasant community will serve this country in such a way that we might get a little less power than we deserve on the basis of the votes. That's the true generosity, and that's what's so rare in this country. Yes, Honourable House, I believe that this István Szabó Nagyatádi will rightly be at the heart of the commemorations in the future. It will be right there because there is much to be done in this country, but dignity and the modesty combined with it are perhaps the most, and very often the place where frustration brings you to be very difficult to be modest, I know, but you have to try. [[13.00]] Dear House, In the coming time, I hope that we can agree on something every year. We can agree year after year that Hungarian society can only really survive if the building and sustaining pillar of this social class, the Hungarian peasant social layer, is maintained, strengthened and developed. I wasn't, and I'm not a fan of it, and I'm never gonna be, so that we can somehow define the farming community so that it doesn't become open to the entire Hungarian society. This must be an accessible and open course for the whole Hungarian society, which plays a decisive role in the country's life. Dear House, Finally, I must say that the fact that we are here today, and I think it is my duty to say this... to someone who has been here for a long time, and whose personality is so ambivalent to many, and who personally has given me good and bad, yet has launched a thought, the idea of the farmer's day, yes, it is about Dr. József Torgyán. He was the one who first thought that this day should be brought to the House. And I am happy to fulfill this obligation, regardless of what happened, the clashes between the person and the person, differences do not matter when it comes to the country. It doesn't matter if it's about saving strength, because next we'll need God to give us good land, good rain, proper sunshine, and good sense and wisdom for the peasant, farmer, who will give us our daily bread. Please support the proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-96	Thank you very much, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. I now give the floor on behalf of the government, on behalf of Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2018-09-18-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Land ownership and agricultural structure have been the focus of social, political, economic and legal issues in Europe's history. The debate on who owns the land has been going on for thousands of years, and for a long time the problem of Hungarian social and economic development has been unsolved, which has also hindered recognition of the agricultural peasantry, its place in Hungarian society and its real role. The land issue and the efforts to resolve it were given a real impetus when the civil development in Hungary began, during the right-hand liberation in 1848. At that time, the year 1848 was IX. The feudal dependence of the peasants on the landlord and all the services for the landlord were abolished. The 1867 compromise stabilised the framework for agricultural development in 1848 for a long time. The Autumn Revolution of October 1918 was the first attempt to implement the earth reform. The year 1919 was the 18th. The People's Law, which was repealed by the Hungarian Council republic and instead ordered the socialization of the land, basically applied to the relatively larger holdings exceeding 500 cadastral moons. After 1919, the solution to the earth issue could no longer be ignored. The Minister of Agriculture István Nagyatádi Szabó, who was also the founder of the Kisgazda Party, presented by the Hungarian Parliament in XXXVI in 1920. The law, which was implemented between 20 June 1920 and 31 December 1929, was also critical in its contemporary judgment and was strongly criticised by many. János Fejes, published in 1943, in his book analysing the 250-year-long process of the Hungarian land estate situation, writes: "The land reform that was raised by the great dust was considered by the national public as a mere land reform, because only one million acres of land were distributed to some 420 thousand individuals, and the great estates only gave 650 thousand acres, and the rest were taken from smaller owners. After all, the great estate was lucky to get away with the land reform. End of subpoena. This critical concept is reflected in the works of folk writers, including Dezső Szabó, Zoltán Szabó, Imre Kovács and Ferenc Erdei. At the same time, Nagyatádi's land reform was an undisputed milestone, which, for the first time in Hungarian history, alleviated the disparities and injustices in land ownership. Dear Parliament, When examined, on this day there is no other memorial day laid down in the parliamentary decree. The proposal for a decision by the authors is capable of giving us recognition in agriculture, agriculture before the work of earth workers, and of increasing the social prestige of the sector, to which I also ask for their kind support and attitude. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-09-18-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-18-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, H/893. No. 17 of September, István Nagyatádi Szabó's birthday was declared a Memorial Day for farmers. For centuries, the Hungarian farmer maintained and kept the country, with his sweaty work and blood spilled during the war he was vulnerable to the service of the country. In February 1848 and then in April, serf bonds were largely abolished. The Hungarian farmer could have set off on the path of civilization. The basic means of production, the earth, was inexorably distributed unjustly. The Hungarian farmer, the Hungarian peasant, was forced to fight for the land. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Strong mind, strong spirit, strong will, you'll hear about this! So said István Tisza about István Szabó Nagyatádi. He was the founder of the first national peasant party in Hungary, the developer of the democratic land reform programme, the first representative of peasant origin in 1910 in the history of the Hungarian Parliament. After the revolutions, in 1920 he was the country's most popular politician and leader of the most popular party, the Little Master Party. His name was Nagyatádi's land reform in the 1920s as Minister of Agriculture. Due to the resistance of large owners, the reform of the land could only be achieved in a small part. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see in the explanatory statement of the bill: István Nagyatádi Szabó, who came from a six-moon family of smallparaszti, who could only complete six elementary classes, placed the fairer distribution of the land at the centre of his whole life and political work. Regulation (EC) No XXXVI of 1920 on provisions governing the fairer distribution of land estates an article of the law for which Nagyatadi struggled so much, he could only alleviate the disproportionateness and injustices of the land ownership relationship. This division of land, linked to the name of István Nagyatádi Szabó, has given us the hope of achieving fairer land ownership, despite all his flaws and weaknesses. On the birthday of István Szabó Nagyatádi, on 17 September we commemorate the peasant society, which was always ready to serve the country, both in good times and in misfortune. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the adoption of the resolution proposal, which wishes to commemorate the Hungarian farmers, István Nagyatádi Szabó. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I do not wish to repeat here the noble and exalted thoughts of my pro-government fellow Members, which, of course, the Jobbik faction agrees with, and we also believe that it is worth remembering the work of István Nagyatádi Szabó on this occasion, and that the Memorial Day is also a thought to be supported, so I wanted to state this first. At the same time, there are some things to mention here, which I do not think should be left out here in the debate of such a memorial day. In other words, to update the question a little, and to look at the fact that, if we have properly dedicated a day of remembrance to Hungarian farmers, peasantry, their nation-fertilizing will and faith, let us look at what the present situation is, and how the state of the family farms, for example, is now, how they can thrive in Hungary. Here, my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács started the whole presentation, and, as I said, I deeply agree with his thoughts, but I very much liked, for example, the broadening vision and interpretation that he said that it was not just farmers, but practically the Hungarian village, the whole region, and if we look at food, the landscape itself, or the past, then these thoughts can be extended to the urban population as well. That is why I thought it was very important for me to present these amendments, which I think would be able to put this Memorial Day into Hungarian reality today and give it meaning, and it would be not only a memorial day from then on that we can express the exalted thoughts about Hungarian farmers year after year, but perhaps these amendments would also benefit us. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, we have heard that it is a very important, centuries-old question about who should own the land. We thought so, but we did not expect that it would be the Fidesz-KDNP governments who would answer this question after centuries, which we did not expect from them, and which would go virtually 180 degrees against what they said in opposition. In other words, we would not have expected the answer that you gave to this question, for example through public land privatisation, that the land did not end up being owned by those who live on the ground, who cultivate it as Hungarian families, but, in most cases, I am thinking of areas that are also of great value, hundreds of millions of dollars, so these huge estates are placed in a very narrow layer. Technically, through the Ángyán reports or through our investigations, everyone can get a clear picture that it is practically a family circle of 2-3 people per county, an economic circle, who have acquired these areas, and this is very, very far from the Nagyatádi idea from which we met today. It was also said from the Secretary of State that the reduction of feudal dependence was important to Nagyatádi and to his party at all. It would be nice to have a little of this inheritance taken over by you, and in practice, we see the opposite. So we've already begun to believe that feudal dependence in our country will cease when the past eight years are not what you think, but what we've actually experienced in the last eight years has actually triggered exactly the opposite processes, i.e. that feudal dependence in the countryside is growing year after year. This can be seen by the brutal disproportionateness of EU funds, i.e. that two thirds of these funds are practically the most viable in Hungary today, but can also be seen in your ownership policy, which I have already referred to, i.e. that the opposite processes have started, the most capable, the most capital-intensive of the state. But even considering the situation of bureaucracy, I can also say that those companies are thanking you, having a good time, and those large landowners who can keep an accountant, who have a full-time job with a man who has nothing but to do with his lobbying powers at various government agencies, are fine. But those who do not have the size of an estate to be able to do so are seriously suffering from red tape, which is specifically anti-family farming. That is why I took the liberty of submitting these few amendments. For example, as I have already mentioned, I would like to achieve a fair distribution of aid, and then, I think, as the submission puts it, we can hold this memorial day in a worthy manner if we pay more attention to it. I know it can't be solved overnight, but that eight years have passed by telling you about worse proportions than when we started this in 2010, I think that neither of you can be proud of that. If this extension is already mentioned and it is really worth bringing the situation in the countryside here, then we should say, let us say, Austria's example, because it is in a similar geographical location, and in many respects it is similar to our country. Let us say that, at the end of the 1970s, in the early 1980s, the difference in standard of living between the Austrian countryside and the Austrian cities, the scissors, of course, were at a different level than in Hungary, but they used domestic and EU funds to reduce those scissors, and it is now a cliché, but it can be said that living in Austria means practically a quality of life that many Austrian urban citizens follow and want to achieve. It would be good to move in the direction that this Memorial Day is a real day of remembrance for these people, our fellow citizens, who live in the countryside and want to experience similar circumstances in their surroundings. I have already mentioned bureaucracy, and I have also tabled a concrete amendment to this, because, for example, it does not cost money in the vast majority of cases, it is only a matter of attitude, and we can remember it in a more worthy way. Cooperatives: another thing that can contribute to a day like this being filled with content, and from year to year at these Memorial Day memorials we can tell you how much we have made progress compared to, say, the previous years, but they can't be proud of themselves here either. Mr State Secretary, you know very well that I have asked you in writing several times every six months since 2010, when the proposed cooperative law will be. I was not the first to demand it in the Hungarian Parliament, you promised it practically from semester to semester. Nor have we made any progress, there is nothing, while we know how many areas there are, where practically a good cooperative law would be able to help the will, thoughts, initiatives at both sectoral and territorial levels, and create a competitive network here in the Hungarian countryside for family farmers. Allow me one more example, Mr Secretary of State, which would also make this Memorial Day more colourful and much more relivable if, for example, the national rural strategy were finally to be implemented. I also have to go back to 2010, where you have said that this will be the constitution of the countryside, and that the implementation of this, which was launched by 2020, will be the end of this programme, and then it will probably reach that common dream, because the Jobbik faction has given you maximum support, and we will achieve that the Hungarian countryside will be in a better quality position than we have seen in 2010. So we are there now, and I know that we are well past the half of 2018 and we are close enough to that date in 2020, compared to this, the rural strategy does not follow its implementation, but has not started yet, nor will I go further, they did not dare even bring this strategy to Parliament. How much better it would be if we were at least pro rata by time, and here we could proudly say, in connection with this Memorial Day, how the implementation of the rural strategy is in the current year. I have already mentioned land privatisation, but I think I can say on behalf of István Nagyatádi Szabó, if I may say so here that he would not be very, very proud of this land privatisation. The kind of land distribution that he imagined, and I know that it was only partly possible to carry out most of his own failure, with this logic which he represented, going right in front of him, you purposely carried out this ground privatisation with a completely different logic. [[13.20]] So they are not worthy at all to take his name on their mouth and use it to characterize this Memorial Day. Speaking of which, Mr Secretary of State has the pleasure of protecting this memorial day here from the government side, perhaps it is worth mentioning another amendment. In this, I propose to create a system in which family farms can feel this Memorial Day as their own, and not just the few families they know personally. What am I thinking here? For example, the case of Mezőhegyes. Perhaps I am right to suggest this here to Mr Secretary of State, because he was also involved in this work as a representative of the Government. It would be very interesting to hear and I would very much like to know how my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács thinks, how it fits into the logic of the Memorial Day and in the memory of Nagyatádi what happened in Mezőhegyes. The socialist governments privatized Mezőhegyes to foreign interests, I think, completely unwarranted, and then you took back the land, but first you separated it, privatized it to your friends, and then changed your mind for some reason. They paid such brutal grief money to these fidesz local kings that they didn't even go to court, they simply gladly returned the land to the state, 20 years of profit plus the price of the land. Then it was renovated, I don't know exactly how many billions, which isn't my fault, because simply as many written questions I get answered, it contains all the opposite numbers, so let's just say that a lot of public funds and billions of buildings have been renovated. We thought it was a very forward-looking operation, and I said that the Hungarian nation needed such a demonstration centre, where young people who are interested in agriculture from high school to higher education can experience the experience of the XXI. 100th century technologies, as well as the values of the past. Compared to this, a further two-thirds of them have smuggled in an amendment that allows Mezőhegyes to be practically privatized. I don't know exactly who, for now, I haven't found out, but I'm guessing there's no one to guess at, because it's gonna be one of the only two oligarchs near the government, so I'm guessing who's gonna carry Mezőhegyes. So they bought it back out of billions of public money, renovated it, and then the buddies can take it all. All this view, all this attitude is very, very far from Nagyatádi and Jobbik, so this change of view and these amendments are what I think are necessary to make this Memorial Day not only an important and beautiful opportunity to commemorate Hungarian farmers and peasantry, but also to upload content and to talk about this Memorial Day and this social layer as it deserves and as it should be. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-09-18-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Szászfalvi, lead speaker of KDNP is coming. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-18-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The parliamentary proposal for a resolution on the Memorial Day of farmers before us is a significant symbolic proposal. I am honoured to be at the same time the author of this. This memorial day is intended to be a memorial to István Nagyatádi Szabó, the first peasant politician, the Minister of Csomas. We honor his memory and his life's work, which set an example for all of us. The Farmers' Day is proposed to be the birthday of István Nagyatádi Szabó on 17 September. Nagyatádi Szabó was born in Somogyország, Erdőchokonyányán, in my constituency, in today's Csokonyavisonta on 17 September 1868. The inhabitants of the settlement, their local government, continue to cherish its memory proudly and in a worthy manner, which I also thank with respect. In its renovated residential house a memorial house was built, and thus they create a lasting monument to it, which I thank the Golden-Korona Foundation. Last but not least, I would also like to thank József Torgyán, former Minister of Agriculture, who had just announced this proposal in Csokonyavisonta. Dear House, István Szabó Nagyatádi's political performance was his greatest achievement, but Nagyatádi did not want a radical, violent change of ownership, but announced a wide-ranging land reform, which he could only partially implement. Yet, this was successful and yet forward-looking. We talk less about it, but Nagyatádi started the wooding of the Great Plain, launched sewerage and irrigation programs, and also called for the establishment of cooperatives and winter agricultural schools. I would like to highlight only two important aspects of his extensive activity and colourful life. He fought persistently, steadfastly and hard for the people he represented: for the little people, for the small farmers and for their families. But with this, Nagyatadi could and wanted to cooperate with other social groups. István Szabó Nagyatádi was not a class warrior, but a patriot who loved his nation and his country. He realized that, in addition to tough, consistent principles, common social goals can only be achieved with the rest of society. This symbolizes the relief found on the statue of István Szabó Nagyatádi in Kossuth Square, which, thanks to God, was now returned after the defeat in the communist period, and which depicts the symbolic handshake of Count István Bethlen with Prime Minister. It is no coincidence that at his funeral Prime Minister István Bethlen put it this way in his farewell speech: "No one loved the Hungarian country, the nation, more than István Nagyatádi Szabó. He loved his people, with which he joined, to which he wished for democracy. István Szabó is the creator and embodiment of the Hungarian land reform. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Secondly, this proposal for a resolution commemorates and salutes farmers, people living in agriculture, the Hungarian peasant society. This layer, this community, has always been a nation-sustaining force in our history. In the explanatory statement, this importance is also briefly appreciated in a few sentences. This proposal for a resolution, the current debate, is obviously not a calling to discuss the situation of agriculture, but we must say that very serious steps have been taken in this area in recent years. To highlight only one program: the land for farmers! As the largest land estate policy measure since the change of regime, a third of the Hungarian farmers, 30,000 farmers and farming families were able to buy state land, resulting in 200,000 hectares of land in the best place, owned by Hungarian farmers. That means 30,000 families. I think that a programme of this magnitude, along with many other excellent programs, of course, in a very different historical context and history, but certainly worthy of the work and memory of István Nagyatádi Szabó. Dear House, It was an honor for me to be present in Csokonyavisontán, Nagyatádi Szabó István's home village, in the first and last Saturday on Vasad on the day of the second farmers. I can say that these days were important, uplifting and, of course, symbolic meetings and celebrations, excellent opportunities to care for the cult of István Nagyatádi Szabó, and also to celebrate our respect for Hungarian farmers, farmers and family farmers. Of course, this Memorial Day will not only mean a flashback in the coming period, but also the appreciation and honor of today's farmers and farmers, and the Memorial Days can still become a nation-building and community-building occasion. We ask the government to help and support us in the coming period so that we can remember this social group and help them today and their work as much as possible. Of course, KDNP supports this proposal and asks all other factions to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2018-09-18-104	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We will now continue our work by speaking with the speaker who has been announced in advance. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the proposal itself will be supported by the parliamentary faction of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. Well, I could finish and take a seat again at this one sentence, but of course I won't do that, because I would like to turn to a logic, a line of thought, whether István Nagyatádi would like what he sees now, if he was alive, or if he saw it from above, what he would say about this, whether it was the robbery-ground-privatization, which served to enrich the buddies again, or, for example, the current situation of agriculture. And then let's line it up, specifically, I'm going to tell numbers that don't lie, numbers are stubborn things. Would István Nagyatádi Szabó say that the purchase price of the juice is HUF 18, not only and exclusively, but mainly in the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county? How would you feel about the fact that your prominents with Gyula Budai at the top ten years ago, with the courage to condemn death, until the fight, have yelled, yelled, screamed, that treason below 30 forints is treason? Then what's 18 forints? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Or 13? [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Inflatation!]] The glorification of peasant farmers? Special support? Freedom fight? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Topic!]] Their protection? Try to yell out if you've seen land in more than a flower pot. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members. The purchase price of the juice started from 13 forints this year, then 20 forints... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: What does that have to do with...?]] I know it's hard to listen to criticism, but you're gonna have to listen to it here, whether you like it or not. How would István Szabó Nagyatadi feel about this? So his memory is violated when they pursue such a agricultural policy! Then six representatives of Szabolcs County Fidesz County may have something to do with the ground, and all the others in the world have nothing to do with it, they've upped 13 to 20. Well, that settles the story. Now it's 18 forints. Then I'll tell you a few things, just to make them feel their horrors and the weight of their sins. About 13 forints, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of harvesting and delivery, and then the cost of production is not included, you know? Because when they say 13 and 20 forints came from there: of course, almost 50 per cent increase, you can say that, but your base is weak, and the snail doesn't have to run too fast, and it doesn't have to be Ato Bolton or Ben Johnson, like you're trying to do. And now it's back down to 18 forints, you know? This should be addressed, in addition to the fact that, of course, memory day is a great idea. Or how would István Szabó Nagyatádi feel about the production structure that developed, for example, in the fruit and vegetable sector, ladies and gentlemen? That they support the untimely. Would István Szabó Nagyatádi support her if she were alive and decision-making? They support the unconventional and hinder the modern. I'll tell you what I'm talking about, and I'll tell you what facts support this. Together with the AKG, let's leave roughly 300-400,000 HUF per hectare per hectare per year at the apple. The ageless gets the same amount as the modern one. What is the consequence of this, with some exaggeration? Let those plantations, which do not produce edible apples in the majority, but juice, on which you have to climb about like Mowgli in the jungle to the trees of the jungle, of course, with a little exaggeration, I will certainly try to color my words. And what's the main problem? The fact that in the 2004-2006, 2007-2013 and 2014-2020 programming periods, the tender resources for the establishment of modern plantations were already low, the allocations were extremely low, but you, like your Balliberian predecessors, are slowly demoting small and medium-sized farmers not only from production, but also slowly losing their appetite for life. This is better recorded as I say it is, believe me. Another thing is that you don't have to worry about another peasant uprising at the moment, because farmers are more afraid of you, respect for the exception. If you don't have a shirt, don't take it personally, of course, understand every word I say. Administrative, over-regulated, extremely slow evaluation, payment even more. Take note that even in the Csenger area, we should just stick to my constituency, Nyírmada, Mátészalka and Kochord, there are many farmers, even if they are close to you, who are still supporting you, who will slowly be destroyed, because, although they have received a supportive decision, they have done everything they were required to do, and they have financed the investment on credit, which would create a great deal of jobs in an increasingly depopulated area, and they risk not only for their own sake, but also that their ability to maintain the population will be a little stronger for our poor region, and because they are not paid, and the bank is demanding its earnings, they will slowly be destroyed, especially if they are terrorized by such acquisition prices. So it's low resources, it's very difficult to use, it's access, it's leading us straight to about half our production sites over the last 30 years. Most of them, by the way, are in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and I'm talking mostly about apples, but it could be pulled on almost all kinds of fruit. The only reason I'm setting the apple as an example is because through our family economy, I obviously have a bigger view of this, and I don't just want to throw words and heavy phrases at you, but what I'm saying I'm trying to prove by fact. Then let's look at the situation surrounding the compensation system. On the occasion of the Memorial Day, in connection with the announcement, creation and future vote of the Memorial Day, let us ask the rhetorical question: would István Nagyatádi Szabó dream of such a compensation scheme? To put it very simply: if a farmer has a crop loss of millions or tens of millions, these four are usually the most common in the event of drought, spring frost or ice damage or storm damage, then if he has fulfilled all his obligations, so he pays a forint, the state will also add a forint, then a few tens or two hundred thousand forints will be paid. I have documents for that, and I can back them up with facts. In English, it's not enough for anything, because they create a calculation formula, the average of the last five years, they take out the worst and the best year, and they pretty much average that basically the peasant gets what you think is right, almost nothing. It could be changed, but perhaps they should be more inclusive in the direction of opposition proposals, at least a little bit. Then there's the soil generator defense system. Billions have been put into it, I'm not saying it's completely... the idea is excellent, I have to admit, to be commendable. There are little problems with efficiency. And if I can only turn back to my constituency again, because it is obviously my heart's favourite area, then I would ask you with great respect to favour Transcarpathia, but especially the Partium, in the framework of cooperation across our current borders, to speed up the installation of the system, because Csenger and Rozsály are constantly beating up the neighborhoods of Csenger and Rozsály in a rug bombing manner because they should be protected at a depth of 20-30 kilometers compared to the current border. If they did this, for example, the housing buildings in Rozsály would not look like they were caught in cannon fire or fire from combat helicopters, as happened on 21 June 2016 in the early hours of dawn and late morning. Then let us talk about issues which are rarely mentioned here, and this is the crime of the living, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know, you've noticed, and I'm gonna add again with due respect for the exception, and if you're not wearing a shirt, don't take it personally, I'm not generalizing. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Ah, no!]] and I don't think criminals are criminals, but unfortunately, most of them have a minimum of serious responsibility, not only in the civil, financial, but also in the criminal sense, when they are doing a good job on site modernisation applications. It's about the story of apologizing for the expression, and I'm going to quote Lajos Kósa, everything to them, the noodle leaders, and the membership, and the coke. That's about how you describe this attitude. If a pasta asks for a wrapper or for any kind of employment contract or other assistance, the majority of trade leaders tend to take the view that they may turn to the Roman Catholic Church or even the Reformed Church for help, but they are not competent to do so. They, in which they do not see their role, do not work particularly. [[13.40]] If your beloved leader has now gone to the Russian Tsar in a reporting position, then I wonder if you might remember to mention it, although the Prime Minister is unfortunately not very sensitive to the problems of agriculture, that Hungarian-Russian relations may not necessarily be Paks II. It would make the most sense in this context, but if it makes sense to stimulate this connection system a little bit or heat that filament a little bit, then it is precisely a question of agricultural relations. I know it's not up to you, there are embargoes, international bans. But if the world turns around, because your beloved leader expects this in May next year, there are 9-10 months left, ladies and gentlemen, and it would be worth preparing the opportunities that would otherwise be expected to be held fair by the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, or farmers of Somogy County and other counties, especially small and medium-sized family farms, so that they are not exposed to the purchasing mafia and do not have to count on 18 forints of juice and 60 forints of eating apple, which sells 60 forints of eating apples at hundreds of forints. I know that there is an EU ban on so-called protected prices, I know, but if there is a reason, then it would be worth continuing a freedom fight. Yeah, well, that would take courage, you know, a kind of commitment. I know Uncle Bela has that. I don't doubt that he's committed to this case. This is another opportunity, by the way, for a new minister to be in position. In that sense, he has a clean slate ahead of us. We are very confident that you will achieve as much of this as possible. Indeed, he still has some authority in our eyes. Prove it. Let's hope he proves it and doesn't prove it. Russian relations should be forced in order to improve buying-in prices and to create marketing opportunities. If anything, this would make you very popular in the eyes of Hungarian farmers. One of the biggest problems that affects not only the capital and not just the construction and catering industry is the problem of labour shortages. Imagine that unemployment and labour shortages are present at the edge of the eastern border at a distance of nearly 300 km from Budapest. This is not only because of emigration, emigration, but also because of the very poorly organised community service you have organised. Again, as a safety deposit, so as not to misinterpret my words, Jobbik is not against community service. We are not saying that public service must be banned or terminated. We claim that it is necessary, but that it needs to be changed significantly because in many cases it will stop the lower-status layers from working so that the possibility can already be created, there is a legal framework for the public worker to go on seasonal work, to take unpaid leave during the season work, to be employed by the farmer, to keep the relationship with the community, to remain legally stable when the seasonal work is over, to go back nicely, to the goat and to the cabbage. Yeah, it just doesn't look like that in practice. The reasons for this are the practical organisation of public work, and the fact that workers have simply been spoiled at such a level as to make it an easy voting base, unfortunately the vast majority of the poor-born public workers are trying to benefit them by not being very willing to go on unpaid leave in the course of their practical implementation, and they would like to receive remuneration on two items at the same time. Seeing the robberies of your families, it's somewhat understandable that you feel some moral authority that if you can be up there for the gentlemen in Pest, then why don't we get some crumbs in the country. In the first place, it poisons the society that's been happening in this country for the past 30 years. But the point is, if this is not organised, in the regions most affected by unemployment, the shortage of labour will be such that next year we may live to see that the fruits will be on the tree even on Christmas Eve, because there will be no one to take them off. This will cause amazing problems not for large farms, but also for small and medium-sized family farms. You know there are generational problems in agriculture. Very few young people want to take over this very beautiful, but very difficult, very trying profession, because it is a profession, not just a job or a profession. It requires both mental and physical amazing, above average ability if you want to do this right. If the present generation, most likely in its 60s or 70s, grows old or departs from us, who will carry on this noble profession? With all the things I've told you, if you can't solve it, from buying to applying for a job shortage, I'd say I don't want to repeat it again, then the remaining population retention skills will be lost to the countryside. If these farmers, after their mood for life is slowly passing away, don't just want to produce, they put the lute down. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] then virtually all remaining jobs in the countryside will be lost, and then we will re-produce public work and the hopelessness associated with it. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, representative of Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think today, in or outside the walls of this House, there are few people who have spoken more about confederation than I have, both inside and outside. I have said many times, and I repeat that without confederation, neither the necessary concentration of capital nor the kind of division of labour that is needed can be achieved. It is present with devastating force, it is a fact, in Hungarian society, everything that has been brought into it with a kolkhoz mind. Only together can we banish this from the Hungarian society and make it clear that it is a common interest to join forces. It is the same on a number of issues. But I ask my honourable fellow Members: is there any genre disorder here? Is this what we're hearing here, not part of a political debate day? So let us come political debate day, let us stand there, let us say what we think about Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian countryside, let us make the proposals, but let us say that on Christmas Eve we have to tell you all the problems that exist in a family, let us say, or are we preparing for something that can please all of us?!It is that when we want a day of remembrance that has been accepted throughout the Hungarian society, perhaps a little, a little bit above all the daily, otherwise existing, mostly existing political problems that we would all like to deal with within the framework of a political debate day. Once again, I ask that this day be the day when we try to raise the Hungarian landmaker to the pedestal he deserved a long time ago. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-09-18-108	Thank you. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, in two minutes!
u2018-09-18-109	I would like to respond to Béla Turi-Kovács's words that I think he should say these at a Fidesz fractional meeting. I am glad that you have talked a lot about cooperatives, but you should try to leave your work to your fellow Members, and try to push them a little on this, because 2010 was a long time ago. Indeed, as you have said, there is no other possibility for the Hungarian countryside and agriculture in the sea of EU commitments and free trade agreements, unless we take these models seriously, redefine them, provide them with legal foundations and, of course, provide resources. I, too, would like to talk about the situation of the Hungarian family farms and farmers in a loud voice, but let us not silence the reality, but we are opposition representatives. We all started by, of course, supporting this Memorial Day, and we agree with its content, justification and necessity. But let it be allowed here in the Hungarian Parliament to say the criticisms and problems that prevent us from taking the very nature of this proposal in a completely honest manner. Let us see its contents, and let us also see why thousands of families in Hungary, who should be affected by this Memorial Day, will not be able to interpret this proposal in the same way and why we should not represent their interests, since they sent us here to the Parliament. So I don't think of this at all as if we're crossing or mocking the memory day, but on the contrary, we're working, and we're telling it to come to a time when we really can only remember the good and the good in connection with such a memorial day. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-110	Thank you very much. We will now continue with the speech of the Member who has asked for a normal word. I would like to inform Mr Abbot that I can speak to him in the next round for two minutes. Congressman László Varga, MSZP, please. [[13.50]]
u2018-09-18-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to speak much shorter this time than the previous speakers, and I would prefer to stick to the presentation. Yesterday, the Committee on Agriculture discussed this proposal, and I also thought that when István Nagyatádi became a representative 110 years ago, here in the House there were oligarchs, landlords, people with enormous wealth and representatives of their interests in overwhelming majority. Yet he has made great efforts to realise his own ideas, at a time when the existing social order was thought to be unchangeable by many, of course, especially by those benefiting from it, by the large-scale people who have made up the majority here in the House, and by those acting in their interests. At this age, there were many competing ideas about how to gradually change this social order for the benefit of the poor people in many rural areas. The question is that the idea of István Nagyatádi was good and forward-looking. The answer is briefly: yes. And in a very short period of time, he was given a very limited opportunity to realize his ideas, from 1920, but he did, and I think that his life's work goes beyond his life and XX. A significant part of the century. Almost a hundred years, from the perspective of a century, I think we should look at the person's ability to make his birth date a memorial day for such an important day for the whole nation. I'm saying that by examining his life's work and his progress, the answer is yes. So I can briefly tell the authors, Mr Secretary of State and the Members here that I am going to propose to my own group that we support this proposal, be this day for the Hungarian farmers a day of remembrance that is more about unity and forward-looking ideas than about fighting. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2018-09-18-112	Thank you very much. Congressman György Czerván, Fidesz!
u2018-09-18-113	As the gunmen for centuries defended the country against the outside enemy, the peasant people as Ignac Acsády in his great work The history of the Hungarian serfdom he vividly wrote so he fought in the field of work his eternal, life-satisfying struggles with the brittleness of wild nature, while he sacrificed a large proportion of his bulging power to destroy the forest, to bridle the wild waters, to dry the swamps, the swamps, and the moors that covered the rich soil. From century to century, he continued this glorious task with never slacking energy, noiseless, but heroic endurance. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the Hungarians could keep their country in the storms of history was due not only to their fights against the country, but to their equally productive work. The state-organization institutions, which meet the current demands, would have been an empty frame alone, without the peaceful possession of the conquered land, without the force and diligence of the generations of those who cultivate the land, which not only provided the country's defence capabilities, but were the main pledges of the nation's survival. I would like to quote the words of Wass Albert: "The sword is capable of confiscating Hon, and it is also useful in protecting it. However, you can only keep the home with a scythe. With reapers, plows, sweaty, honest work. He's gonna lose a home, and he's gonna leave the job to somebody else. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, With these thoughts, I welcome the proposal before us, which I ask for your support to accept, so that this supreme nation-sustaining power of society, the appreciation of the people of farmers, will be given an independent form, while opening a new chapter in Hungarian tradition. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you, Mr President, to accept the proposal of Béla Turi-Kovács, which I very much respect, and not to involve all kinds of policy in this increased debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-114	Thank you. Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik!
u2018-09-18-115	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear colleague Béla Turi-Kovács, On the one hand, there is a practical and a cause of honor, and at least two additional reasons why I spoke in 15 minutes and said what I said. One is that very few time frames, surfaces, opportunities to express a healthy and normal criticism, because your beloved leader and his accomplices have shut us out, locked us down, banned us, banned almost all media, weededed us, destroyed us, carpet bombed all areas and surfaces where we could say our opinions. And, well, he's got eyes on the world's basis, of course, we're trying to take advantage of the opportunities that the Tsar Father here has left us. Well, we're not gonna miss a joke like that. We play football a little better than Hungarian football players, we can only hit the empty gate from two meters away! [[It's a rare blur.]] If we couldn't do that, if we didn't have such modest abilities, we wouldn't mind pushing the bike, and then really go home and get some apples! Then we can think that way. And the other is a matter of honor. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it a matter of honor that once we are a family economy at home, it ensures the livelihood of the family, and I come from a large-scale peasant family, then I will tell you these problems, if the good Lord has given them and the voters have helped me to have a parliamentary mandate. And as much of our opportunity as possible or my opportunity, I will try to improve one of the most beautiful and poorest, poor, deprived, robbed neighborhoods in the country in order to develop and develop. It is also a matter of honor that I bring in what the farmers have entrusted me in Chenger, Chengerújfalu, Kocsordon, Mátészalkán, Nyírmadan, Levelek, Apagyon over the last few weeks and months, to bring this message here, as well as city leaders and city leaders asking for their names to be silenced. It's typical, by the way, it's only because of the cunning fear that they don't dare to take on their faces, their names and their criticisms. I often tell them why you don't send e-mails or why you don't write letters on paper, traditionally. Well, they wouldn't dare, because they would be turned out of their fur if they were too critical; respect for the exception. They'll know there's another part of the honor case. We have felt here for eight years that, as a pregnant woman, pardon, a pregnant woman, a blessed woman, is in the best condition to say that she eats instead of two, so a better representative works for at least two, even in single constituencies, regardless of the fact that our majority was able to obtain a mandate from a national list. As proud as they are of having individual mandates, some of them have reason to do so, I do not dispute this for a minute, so I do not generalise and I am not trying to get the presumption of collective guilt out of the dark of the Middle Ages, but the majority of them should be very modest on the basis of the votes purchased and campaign logistics. I'll just keep that in parentheses. So we'd be fools to tie up, excuse the expression if we didn't take advantage of these opportunities here. [[In the notary seat István Szávay will be replaced by Gergely Arató.]] And we started by supporting it, we think it's a good idea, and I'm sure we're all going to vote for it. There's nothing wrong with that. They're just pretending that we don't talk about inconveniences because of the rise, sweep them under the carpet, drag them back for weeks and months, let's not talk about them, because that's good for you. Are you trying to think about that, not only in relation to the problems of agriculture, but also in relation to their governance in general, that you are only responsible for success? There aren't many of them, let's say, short list, but for problems and problems, can you point them back to year or decade? How is that, ladies and gentlemen? They started their ninth year without interruption, they won two thirds, they had two thirds continuously for five years, now they had two thirds again about six months ago, so to whom do they point? Or when a sudden problem arises, do they refer to the international situation and to the European Union? Well, there should be a cage fighter, out there, when it comes to protecting the Hungarian peasantry, when it comes to market acquisition, there should be a kick in the thighs for Brussels! So I would very much ask you to count on us in any case where normal proposals for the interests of small and medium-sized peasantry come in to collect their thoughts, sort them out, and, after voting for the memorial day, start solving the problems that I have listed, in order to keep the Hungarian countryside from being empty, because we do not have time to push and delay another cycle and another cycle. No. [[14.00]] With the oldest and most beautiful craft, Hungarian peasants will abandon their profession, because it will simply not be worth it. And they won't be able to swallow the fruitage of their sweaty work for much longer. And they don't work, they don't want to work, they don't want to be tired by the end of the day, and they're happy to sleep. So then let's go ahead and start solving these problems in the autumn, so that we can report on a much better situation next year. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-116	Thank you. Honourable Members, The reason for my hesitation for a few seconds is that until now, a Member has come forward, who has not made contact since then, and, consequently, his statement has obviously become obsolete or, at least, he does not want to say so. I said all this for so long to prepare myself to close the agenda. [[Defiance.]] As no one has made any further comments, I have to ask you formally once again, if someone else would like to say something. On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State is here. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-09-18-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with my fellow Members who have spoken in support and, of course, thank the representatives of opposition parties for the support they have expressed. But I think that there was only one opposition Member who had perhaps the most correct way of expressing the significance of this day, and with his opposition speech, I think he made the most obvious statement. He was nothing but Congressman László Varga. Just because I understand those speakers from the opposition party, Jobbik, who have told us their personal experiences, they have told me the problems they see, they may even experience. But I would like to suggest one thing to your attention. Today, in the Agricultural Ministry, in agricultural management, I think there has been a serious change of heart, and I am not saying this for nothing. In the administration of the Agricultural Ministry, there are more and more of us who know the countryside. Not that you didn't know him before, but that's where we came from. So some of these problems that you're raising, I feel like they're cornered. I suppose it's also said to make the voice in this Parliament even stronger. Because, as a country representative, I walk my constituency as well, I now walk the country as a state secretary, and I feel a certain trust, I feel a certain, I could also say, satisfaction, which, of course, we must not overestimate. [[Dr. István Apáti: State of Grace.]] But I wouldn't take it that way. I appreciate more professionally than that, though, the voices we get. The fact that there are difficult situations in Szabolcs, the apple planters and fruit producers have such problems, unfortunately we all know, but I do not think it is this day's job to discuss these issues in detail. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Past 8 years.]] The fact that the past eight years, honourable Member, know very well that there have been numerous opportunities and opportunities for everyone to express their views, whether in a report on an agricultural economy or in other subjects, when amending land laws or amending laws. I think there will be plenty of opportunities for this, because in the agricultural purse's legislative programme, I think they can say it several times during the fall. Once again, I would like to ask you to try to accept today's bill as fair and worthy as possible and to discuss these issues on those occasions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-18-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the rapporteur has the right now to respond to what has been said in the debate. I'll ask Béla Turi-Kovács to respond on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] Congressman says no. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the agreement establishing the EUROFISH International Organisation until its closure. The government referral is T/1356. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to the Secretary of State, Member Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-119	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Accession to and active participation in the international organisation EUROFISH, which was originally central and eastern European, closely cooperating with the FAO and the European Union, could raise the level of freshwater aquaculture production in Hungary. The plan of joining this organisation is not current, as Hungary has been a participant in the 2000 Affiliate Conference deciding on the establishment of EUROFISH, where it has declared its intention to join it, but has not yet ratified its accession to it. EUROFISH developed from an earlier FAO project, initially with the aim of providing services to EU candidate countries to take over EU fishing standards. Later, the organisation's mandate was extended to include additional tasks, in particular the dissemination of information, promotion of economic operators in the Member States and support for sectoral projects. In its bi-monthly professional magazine, EUROFISH Magazine, it presents information and promotional material on the management of fish in the Member States, which can help improve the visibility of the Hungarian fish management industry in Europe and deliver important messages to the European professional public. In addition to concrete events and news, 10-20 pages of comprehensive material have been published on countries' fisheries management, including government and economic operators in the sector. These materials have great international promotion potential. They are capable of giving a broad understanding of the successes, business and investment opportunities of the domestic fish management sector. EUROFISH Magazine and the organisation's website can help our efforts to support fisheries and aquaculture support after 2020 and provide a forum for the publication of joint resolutions such as the declaration signed by ten countries on the recent Hungarian initiative on the importance of support for freshwater aquaculture. EUROFISH also helps companies from Member States to appear at major international trade exhibitions and fairs, this option is also open to our country, so the Hungarian fish management industry could attend events that would be important due to the promotion of domestic fish and fish products, but on which high costs have prevented participation so far. EUROFISH provides additional services according to the needs of the Member States and on request, carries out market research, organises conferences, workshops, seminars, meetings, publish professional publications, and assists Member States' administrations in preparing and disseminating information on fish management, aquaculture, trade, marketing, food safety and quality projects. Ladies and gentlemen, The recognition of the above benefits has resulted in a steady increase in the number of members of EUROFISH, originally central and eastern European focus, since its establishment, and now also covering Western European countries. [[14.10]] The organisation currently has 12 members, including the most important countries in the European continent's aquaculture. Hungary's accession would significantly help to ensure the European interest of domestic fisheries management, the visibility of domestic producers, access to projects that are beneficial to the sector, as well as our international networking opportunities. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support with their contributions, professional proposals and votes the publication of the agreement establishing the EUROFISH international organisation and thus Hungary's accession to the organisation. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-120	Thank you very much. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr János Pócs, takes the floor. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is for Hungary to join the EUROFISH organisation. This will help us to bring our country's freshwater aquaculture fish production to the world level. As the Deputy Minister said, EUROFISH is an international organisation for the development of fisheries in Central and Eastern Europe, working closely with the European Union and the FAO, the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, Our country was already a participant in the 2000 Ministerial Conference deciding on the establishment of EUROFISH, where it declared its intention to join, but the ratification of the accession was not yet possible. EUROFISH developed from a former FAO project, initially with the aim of providing assistance to EU candidate countries through the introduction of EU fishing standards. Later, the organisation's mandate was extended with additional tasks, so it currently provides the Member States with the best support for information dissemination, promotion of economic operators in the Member States and support for the sector project. EUROFISH is a monthly professional magazine, a magazine with brochures, information and promotional material on Member States' fisheries management, which can also help us improve the visibility of the Hungarian fish management industry in Europe, deliver important messages to European professional public opinion, and in addition to concrete events, news, there are 10-20 pages of comprehensive material on the countries' fisheries management, in which the government and economic operators of the sector are also heard. These materials have a great international promotion potential, capable of providing a broad understanding of the successes, business and investment opportunities of the domestic fish management sector. The EUROFISH magazine and the organisation's website can help our efforts to support fishing aquaculture after 2020 and provide a forum for the publication of joint resolutions, such as the declaration signed by ten countries on the recent Hungarian initiative, on the importance of supporting freshwater aquaculture. Ladies and gentlemen, EUROFISH provides additional services on request to Member States, carries out market research, organise conferences, workshops, seminars and B2B, business-to-business meetings, publish professional publications and assists Member States in preparing and disseminating information on administrative, fish management, aquaculture, trade, marketing, food safety and quality projects. Ladies and gentlemen, The success of EUROFISH has resulted in a steady increase in the number of members of EUROFISH, originally central and eastern European focus, since its founding, and has now spread to Western European countries. The organisation currently has 12 members: Albania, Denmark, Estonia, Croatia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Russia, Romania, Spain, Turkey, among which are the most important Member States in the aquaculture of the European continent. Ladies and gentlemen, The accession of our country can significantly help the European interest-raising capacity of the domestic management of fisheries, the visibility of domestic producers, access to projects beneficial to the sector, and the possibility of international networking. In the spirit of these thoughts, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-122	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is coming. You have the floor, please.
u2018-09-18-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm using my lead speakership right now and I'm talking about the pulpit so you don't have to do this with your back, and besides, this is my first speaker speech here in Parliament. I agree with the bill, and I support it. The objectives set out in Article 3 of the International Organisation for the Development of Central and Eastern European Fisheries, also known as the EURO-FISH Agreement, are to promote professional and economic cooperation between members, to maximise the potential of fisheries resources, to promote private sector investment, to contribute to the promotion of trade, and to maximise the use of export opportunities within and outside the region, all encourage the development of fish management and aquaculture in Hungary. This is necessary, because, as the EUROFISH agreement states, it is a fundamental sector of our national development. Here I would like to note the joyful change that the consumption of fish by Hungarians has been on an increasing trend recently. This must also have contributed to reducing the VAT on fish meat to 5%. Our average annual consumption of only 6 kilograms/person, including imported sea fish such as hakk and seafood, is still far from the EU average of 24 kilograms/person. Unfortunately, it should also be noted that we are not doing well in terms of our export-import balance. We import fish for a value of EUR 30 million and sell only EUR 10 million abroad. It is therefore easy to conclude that it is necessary to encourage the consumption of fish in Hungary and to continue to develop our farm. Dear Parliament, What happened on the other hand? Commercial fishing in our natural waters ceased in May 2015. It must be said that this was a political decision that clearly favored the fishing community. This decision was made and there are victims. 200 families of fishermen have lost their livelihoods, and they have not yet received any compensation. For the sake of social peace, in my view, the government should have taken responsibility for the compensation of those deprived of their profession and, at the same time, for the purchase of their fishing gear. It is feared that these troubled people will eventually make their former work equipment money, and in the future, rapsics will fish illegally with them. Fish caught with nets from our natural waters, including the Danube, Tisza and Lake Balaton, cannot currently be marketed. As a representative of Somogy County, I dare say that the category of joke is that in restaurants on the shore of Lake Balaton, in fish bakeries, there has been no fish in Balaton since the ban on fishing in Balaton in December 2013. It is unacceptable, from a tourist and country point of view, that residents and visitors in the area should not be allowed to eat the high-quality, culinary experience of Balaton fish. It is no coincidence that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself expressed his indignation about this matter a few years ago. Since then, the government has stepped up and allowed the Balaton farm to sell fish with a Balaton designation of origin. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that this is a typical case of delusion. These fish come not from the Hungarian sea, but from the lake farms in the water catchment area of Lake Balaton. But back to our original theme, the EUROFISH agreement and the maximum use of the potential of fisheries resources set out in it, while we are talking about it, I propose that a professional-based dialogue be launched to ensure that at least the so-called invasive species in the lake are created for commercial purposes. These non-indigenous, biologically harmful, but properly prepared very tasty species are especially recommended in the lake. Some of these are food competitions for the extremely popular bass, and some are particularly disturbing the recreational activity of fishermen. I dare say, therefore, that it is in the interest of both fishermen, fishermen and the tourism and hospitality in Balaton to be able to consume the fish species that have just been listed. Dear Parliament, The aim of the Jobbik Hungary Movement is to increase fish consumption in Hungary and promote healthy nutrition. It can be concluded that people who eat significantly more fish live significantly longer. The EUROFISH agreement also indirectly serves this purpose, and I will therefore propose to the Jobbik fraction to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaker requesting a normal word, representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, please.
u2018-09-18-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Ádám Steinmetz said in his keynote speech, we will support this agreement, but we really need to highlight a few things that, unfortunately, the government has not escaped with regard to the Hungarian fish, although it would be really necessary. We have heard the brutal differences between European average fish consumption and Hungarian. If we were able to increase the consumption of Hungarian fish by just one kilogram per year on average each year, it would still take 18 years to reach the European average. It is particularly sad to say this as a Hungarian Member because we did not start from here. So if you look at the reports from two hundred years ago or the previous ones, the protein intake of the average Hungarian person was mainly given by the fish next to the egg and milk, so there are the folk recipes and even the custom on which we might be able to raise this low consumption of 6 kilograms per year. This may be a positive first step in reducing VAT, but much more needs to be done. Just think, for example, if you caught a large case on the banks of the Danube or the Tisza at the time, you found enough eggs, i.e. enough caviar material to cover your annual tax revenue. And then we didn't talk about the fact that these fish were often 4-5-6 ounces of fish, so it was up to a serious series of pig cuts in the village's life, if, say, they caught such a case, and it does depend on the Hungarian government, because it would be possible to start international negotiations in terms of, say, when the Iron Gate will be able to be transformed in such a way that these sturgeons will be able to swim back out of the sea, from the Black Sea, and be able to ejaculate on the Tiszahat or even during the Isle, and thus bring quality life and opportunity back into these rivers. We also have a lot to talk about about Hungarian fish, just because the seas are practically empty, and the different caging technologies now provide the quantity of fish we can find, but it does not comfort us. It would be much better if, as a competitor of imported sea fish, the Hungarian fish could increasingly appear in our nutrition. The situation of invasive species has also been mentioned. I am not convinced that beyond the fishing situation and concerns of the fishermen, what damage to nature is caused by the many invasive species that have appeared and are obviously visible on land, but also in our waters, with regard to fish, molluscs, crustaceans, but now also to amphibians. And here, in fish, we can act best, in addition to this kind of use of fishing, which, of course, could be of commercial value, of course. But most importantly, I would like to point out that we would like to draw attention to the reduction of invasive species, or even to the creation and creation of eggsholes. Many times, it is enough to attach a previously separated dead body to a natural water, and we are already able to create a place for the fish in the region that will then pass through a self-sustaining system. This is the topic of many good studies and thesis, it is worth drawing from here. And if you're going to eat fish, you shouldn't keep quiet about the fact that the 21st century has changed a lot. 100th-century demands, too. So now we're not living at a time when someone goes into a big shopping mall and typically likes to buy live fish. I know that the legislative options have also narrowed considerably here, and that is right, because, as I said, the needs have changed. So it is now quite evident to an average housewife that if she goes into one of these trade chains, she gets the processed prepared Hungarian fish, in the form of a fillet, even to give a concrete example, which does not contain splinters, or in a prepared form that is unfortunately given to us by sea fish, let me say, the canned fish, or the pastel, which can be spread on bread as an example, and not very much for Hungarian fish. Perhaps there is an attempt in Győr, which is forward-looking, but should be supported by state resources, and, like other areas of the food industry, I would like to draw attention here to the possibility for small and medium Hungarian-owned food processing plants to open their wings, and indeed from Hungarian fish material XXI. They are able to produce food and prepared raw materials, which can be interpreted in the sense of the century. This may be what makes it possible for us to achieve at least this annual, one-kilogram/person consumption surplus; it will not be possible without this. Just as it is no longer fashionable to go to the market and buy a chicken alive, and I will take it home, pluck it, cut its throat, and process it; it is not acceptable for the fish, nor is it fashionable for me to bring home that live animal in a bag which also raises other animal protection concerns, and then beat it with a stick, scaly it, and start processing it. It simply doesn't work, and we didn't follow it, we didn't let the industry follow it in the form of processed food. So I would like to say that, if we are talking about this international agreement, we would also like to address these issues and draw attention to these shortcomings here too. We urge the Government to, say, adopt our amendments to this effect in the next year's budget. Because, by the way, we submit these every year, and then we may be able to upload this international agreement with a small content, and we will be proud to think back on its results in a few years' time. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-126	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, please.
u2018-09-18-127	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can thank you on behalf of the government for your support for the law, but I would like to say again that I understand your zeal and activity in this area, but this law is again not about what you are talking about here. It is natural for fish consumption to be encouraged and fish products processed as well as possible to be placed on the counter, there is no debate between us, I would like to say, but it is not the subject of this law. This law, as you have seen, is a law translated from English wording, adopted in the early 2000s, which we would really like to bring to Parliament today. What you propose, living problems, I accept, but they are not the subject of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-18-128	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the Protocol amending the European Landscape Convention and the 2007 CXI on the publication of the European Landscape Convention in Florence on 20 October 2000. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/1355. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, Mr Sándor Farkas, rapporteur. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! On 1 February 2008, the European Convention of the European Council entered into force in Hungary. It aims to promote landscape protection, management and landscape planning in Europe and to organise European cooperation on landscape protection issues. It provides guidance on the possible allocation of powers in this respect, draws attention to the importance of training tasks and requires the active participation of stakeholders to take stock of, evaluate and register any subsequent changes in the state of the country. This was the first international convention to deal exclusively with the protection, management and development of the landscape. The Convention applies to the entire territory of the members and covers natural, rural, urban and suburban areas, including land, standing waters and marine areas. At its meeting on 15 June 2016, the Ministerial Committee of the European Council approved the Protocol also examined by the Committee of Experts on Cultural Heritage and Landscape Protection and by the competent preparatory group. At the decision of the Committee, the Protocol shall be open to ratification, acceptance or approval by the States Parties to the Convention. The Protocol entered into force on 1 August 2018. The Protocol does not impose any new obligations on the Parties, nor introduces any amendment to their content, extending the territorial scope of the Convention, opening it up to non-European States and the European Union. In this context, the name of the Convention will be changed: the European Council Convention on the Landscape. The implementation of the Convention shall be ensured by the Minister for Nature Protection, in agreement with the Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and in cooperation with the Minister for Territorial Development and Spatial Planning. The implementation of Article 6 (b) of the Convention concerns, as a matter of responsibility, the Minister responsible for education, and should therefore also be named the Minister responsible for education in the relevant provisions of the Act. Dear Parliament, Taking into account the publication by law of the Basic Convention, which was published in Florence on 20 October 2000 by the 2007 CXI on the publication of the European Convention on the Landscapes of Florence. The Protocol is a contract falling within the scope of Parliament's mandate and competence under Act L of 2005 on the procedure relating to international treaties, so it must also be recognised by the National Assembly and its publication can only be done by law. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-130	Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First up is Fidesz's lead speaker, János Pócs. Congressman!
u2018-09-18-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The protection and development of the landscape in our very densely populated continent, with the exception of the northern and mountain landscapes, which has been significantly transformed by centuries of human activity, are regarded as an important task by the various organisations of the European Union. The European Convention of the European Council is intended to preserve a rich European landscape heritage. The Convention was adopted in 2000 by the Ministerial Committee of the European Council with the participation of ten countries. In 2014, 40 countries had already acceded to the Convention. Our country signed the agreement in 2005 and entered into force in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal is to publish the Protocol amending the European Convention on Landscapes and the 2007 CXI on the publication of the European Council Convention in Florence on 20 October 2000. The bill amending the Act has been presented to this House in order to contribute to the extension of the territorial scope of the Convention and to the naming of the minister responsible for education under the responsibility of the national implementation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2007 CXI. The European Convention of the European Council entered into force in Hungary on 1 February 2008, the implementation of which will be ensured by the Minister for Nature Protection, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the protection of cultural heritage, and in cooperation with the Minister for Territorial Development and Spatial Planning. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft law is to publish Protocol 2019 amending the European Convention on the Landscape of the European Council, thereby authorising recognition of the mandatory scope of the Protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, The content of the proposal, the protocol contained in the draft law, does not impose any new obligations on the parties, including Hungary, and does not introduce any changes to the content. It extends the territorial scope of the Convention, opening it up to non-European States to the European Union. The name of the Convention is shortened to the following: the European Council Convention on the Landscape. The draft law contains the authentic English text of the Protocol and its official translation into Hungarian. The date of entry into force of the Protocol shall be laid down by the Minister for Foreign Policy, as soon as it becomes known, in a communication published in the Hungarian Gazette. The implementation of Article 6 (b) of the Convention concerns the Minister responsible for education as a responsibility. Therefore, the Minister responsible for education is named in the relevant provision of the draft law. This amendment shall enter into force on the day following the publication of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The Basic Convention was published by law in 2007 and therefore Act L of 2005 on the Procedure for International Contracts. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Section 4 of the Act, Parliament shall be deemed to be a contract falling within the scope of its duties and powers. Thus, its binding scope must also be recognised by the Parliament, and the announcement can only take place by law. Ladies and gentlemen, In this spirit, I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Jobbik Group, Mr Lajos Kepli is the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since, as we have heard from the rapporteur and the lead speaker of the ruling party group, we are talking about the adoption of an absolute formal amendment to the convention, so I can arrange with the only sentence that the Jobbik faction can, of course, support the convention, all the more so as the explanatory memorandum itself states that it does not contain any new obligations for the parties, it introduces no substantive amendment, only allows non-European states to accede to the Convention, opening the way to the Convention and the European Union. Of course, we all know and experience that, in terms of both natural and cultural landscapes, Hungary could indeed advance in relation to landscape protection, and we would still have tasks to meet in all respects, not so much in terms of the European Union as in terms of our own expectations. [[14.40]] It has to be stated, however, that landscape protection has not, in recent years, gone the way it should have been. Our professional objections have been said here many times before Parliament when it was a proposal for such or similar purposes or subject matter. On the previous agenda, too, the Secretary of State objected when we deviated specifically from the proposal, but in a general debate it was permissible. I would like to conclude, with this small critical comment, the so-called "leading speaker' speech, which I would not call a speaker's speech right now, because we have only expressed our support and a small critical voice that we still have a lot of work to do in the field of landscape protection and related areas. These will not, of course, be done in the course of a later proposal or even in the form of amendments to this proposal, since this will only be the publication of an international convention, as we have done before. So in this case, I would just like to say that we will, of course, support this completely formal amendment to the Convention. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Zsolt V. Németh, the imager of Fidesz, has asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a formal amendment, which would not justify long explanations or long statements of support, but let me hold on to a substantive sentence by Mr Kepli, namely that in recent years landscape protection has not worked properly. Of course, for people who are committed to nature and the environment, this must be the case, but let me note that Hungary has created its landscape strategy as a very modern document, and it will also lead it to policies. Let me give you an example of the international standard: Hungary received the Council of Europe Landscape Award three years ago in the programme "Fabulous Week" so there are areas that are particularly successful in the protection of the countryside in Hungary, which was rewarded by the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-136	Thank you very much. I'll ask if there's anyone else you'd like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State shall indicate, mutatis mutandis, that he does not wish to reflect. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, presented his speech in German: Eine Epoche ging zu Ende, in Memoriam Otto Heinek An era ended, in memoriam Heinek Ottó. Herr Abgeordnete! Sie haben das Wort! Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-18-137	[[He makes his speech in German, accompanied by simultaneous interpretation.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow citizens, We noted with great shock that the leading representative of the German minority in Hungary, Ottó Heinek, said goodbye to us. On behalf of the Jobbik faction, we would also like to draw the House's attention to this and to say how much this personality has done for Hungary and, in particular, for the benefit of the German minority in Hungary. Allow me to make some personal arguments. Shortly after the political revolution, I met Otto Heinek as a representative of the Sopron municipality, sitting on both sides of the table. Ottó Heinek worked as a member of the Hungarian minority office, and after 1999, Ottó Heinek was already the chairman of the minority self-government. In relation to Germans in Hungary, we have met each other many times in different roles, especially at European levels. I was lucky enough to have fought for the rights of national minorities in Europe together with Otto Heinek in the European Parliament in the working community of German minorities and in the committee of ethnic and national minorities. Everyone, together with us, who knew Otto Heinek, knows how much merit he has gained in order to achieve the cultural autonomy of the Germans in Hungary. The development of the entire education system for Germans in Hungary in this new era, where kindergartens and schools were established with the support of the German minority, opened a completely new cultural era, opened a positive era for minority groups, and served the development of the international network with the support of Otto Heinek. Ottó Heinek has followed the development of recent years and the undemocratic development of our common country with great concern, and it is also his legacy that we take action against these trends. His calm and modest way of working and never losing sight of common goals is going to be very much missed by all of us. I'm grateful to the fate, personally, that for a while we could go on a journey together. We're all gonna miss him. May Heinek Otto rest in peace. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-18-138	Thank you very much. Schönen Dank für Ihre Worte! Mr.Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech, with the title of the great hopes of the future in Veszprém and its region. Here you go.
u2018-09-18-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor several times about Veszprém and its region, and I have also presented cultural programmes. Now allow me to say a few words about a segment of which you can be proud not only of the county, but also of the whole country. I'd like to introduce you to the top athletes and athletes of the county, with which, I can safely say, we have entered ourselves in the world press, Veszprém and its surroundings have put their card everywhere, be it the individual sport or team sport. Veszprém is undoubtedly the first handball that comes to mind, the pulsation of the Veszprém Arena, which is enviable by many, from which every handballer playing there sings ode. But did they know that in addition to the great team, the reinforcements had a huge success? During the summer World Games in Paris, Telekom's Veszprém U17 team led Paris Saint-Germain to score 13 goals, and in the final the hopes of handballing in Veszprém stood up against their Brazilian opponent, winning the tournament. Perhaps the loudest successes of the summer are clearly linked to the name of the contestant of the Balaton Swimming Club in Veszprém, Kristóf Rasovszky. As World Champion Kristóf's Junior Champion, two years ago, in 2016, he showed that he had a great talent and great hope, but he really blew into the public on the Hungarian water World Championship, where he finished in the seventh place on 5 kilometers and in the fifth place on 10 kilometers. [[14.50]] Triple gold at the European Championship in Glasgow was over one inning, and on 5 and 25 kilometers he was number one, and on 10 kilometers he was second. He also demonstrated his human size at the race, as he and his rival left the lake celebrating one another. Young talent wins the tournaments, so after Barcelona and Copenhagen, it has recently proved unstoppable in Bled. From my unmissable speech, the athletics of the great past are also in Veszprém. This season, two women's racers, Kéri Bianka, and Éva Orbán's hammer launcher participated internationally in the European Championship in Berlin. Mária Gosztolai is also unmissable, who, as a senior in the Malaga World Championship, became double world champion in disco after a weight boost. We're really lucky, because of the ball sports, if you want to watch a first-class match and scoop through it, there's a range of opportunities. We can choose between handball, basketball or the run. The Transdanubian County of Bakony and Lake Balaton has a first-class team in all three sports, and they are not just any. I can assure you, this year, besides handball, basketball players and runners fight for medals. On the international stage, all handball enthusiasts are looking forward to the international success of the long-awaited Champions League and the gold medal and the Champions League's cup in the Veszprém Arena. Without the need for completeness, with respect to the athletes of the county, I think you can see, ladies and gentlemen, with what strong arguments I can support why Veszprém and its region deserve the new swimming pool, the rehabilitation of the stadium called the empire of athletic sports, why there is a demand for the expansion of the Veszprém Arena, which hosts the multiple Champions League of finalists Telekom Veszprém. These young talents deserve to be part of the XXI. They can prepare and show their talents in a modern environment that is most appropriate to the circumstances of the century. After all, the great champions of the future are among us. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-18-140	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. You have five minutes, please.
u2018-09-18-141	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to remind the presence of not too many representatives of the group that the representatives of Jobbik have sent a loving invitation to the government side. His Secretary of State, but also any member of his office, will be invited to attend an eviction on Thursday at 6 a.m. at XXIII. The district where Aunt Kati would be the victim if we left this. Aunt Kati, who has already lost her grandson and son, has inherited from her deceased family members the debt under which the conditions of recovery, the legal nature of which are not only clearly contested by us, but also by the excellent lawyers who have reviewed this matter in detail. I would like to say that my colleague, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, and I am sure that we will be there on Thursday at 6:00 a.m. I would also like to capacitate on this, precisely in order to gain direct experience in such a case instead of confrontational debates here. Talk to the affected, family members. Obviously, there are people coming to your host hour who have a similar problem. But we find that such stories bleed from so many wounds, that even so, at the last minute, they can be helped, acknowledging that much more can be done by asking for professional counsel at an earlier stage. But let us not expect all members of Hungarian society to be able to act as a qualified lawyer in such a situation. The legislators have a huge responsibility for what a series of omissions we can reveal only in recent years. On the one hand, the brutal excesses of the executive system have barely been reduced, but the excesses are seen. No one has touched the notary system in essence, even though those who issue papers, orders, undertake to sign them to check the legality of the processes behind the documents while not being checked; and then we didn't even talk about supervisory bodies or bank managers. So we need a very wide circle to sit on the bench of the defendants, on the one hand, and on the other hand, who is not even on the bench of the defendants, at least at the hearings, how this monstrosity could have happened. Jobbik's proposal, not only for Aunt Kati, but also for everyone involved, is the creation of a national crisis manager, which was supported yesterday by the Prime Minister, because it was Viktor Orbán himself who said that they were trying to help, but they are asking the local authorities to try to manage it from the resources at their disposal. We are perfectly familiar with the bled state of the municipalities, as well as the meaning of the local government in Hungary today. I therefore believe that in such a case it is possible to ask for the intervention of the municipalities, but in this case they must be given a central source. So that it's not just words spoken in the air, I'll mark the source. With the Hungarian National Bank, a surplus of hundreds of billions was accumulated from the foreign exchange loan conversion, and on the basis of a German sample we would like this amount not only to be paid into the budget optionally, but also on a compulsory basis, and after the payment to the budget, a compensation fund can be set up, from which the situation of all the injured persons can be settled. As part of this compensation fund, the housing of people in the most difficult situations should be ensured along the concept of a national crisis management. Also, if they cannot replace their recipes, as let us be honest with ourselves, fellow Members, regardless of party standing, a Hungarian citizen whose monthly dose of medicine is a problem in which we need to help in person will come to the reception hours of all of us. Because if we don't do this, and you're obviously all doing it in a situation like this, then next month, that person could have permanent health damage or a problem that can be prevented from happening. However, opposition representatives and respect for those pro-government representatives who do the same, but who individually try to stop the problem of hundreds of thousands of people. We're sitting in the legislation to take care of these problems at systemic level, and the problem is that hundreds of thousands of people have fallen out of the social security net. The municipalities referred to by the Prime Minister cannot help them; the housing stock does not allow this, and the bleeding out of the municipalities is not. So it seems that a hundred billion-dollar source of foreign exchange credit is available to address the problem, and this must be paid into the budget, and the concept and practice of the national crisis manager must be brought to life. So Jobbik cannot allow this, until then we will be at evictions and invite our pro-government fellow Members to these events. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-18-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good day, everyone.
