u2018-06-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th meeting of the Second Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In 2012, the National Assembly declared today a day, 29 June, a day for farmers who were ruined at the time of the tournament. The persecution of the Kulacs began in 1948 when Mátyás Rákosi declared the more wealthy farmers to be the enemy of the working people in his infamous Kecskemét speech. There was an unsatisfying struggle after that against the people and their families, first in the press, then before the authorities and courts, and finally in the villages. The instigation did not start only against the more efficient members of peasantry, who have always given farming patterns to others and set an example with respect for tradition, religion, and morality. They were chasing anyone who was judged unreliable, suspicious. Insufferable tax burden, obligation to provide services, and systematic harassment by the authorities have been imposed on farmers who have been targeted by the attacks. Between 1950 and 1953, about four hundred thousand cases were dealt with by the courts in the case of kulaks. Judgments have been handed down from fines to full confiscation of assets to the death penalty. They took his house away from a lot of people qualified as kulaks. Others were interned in the Hortobágy forced labor camps that broke the body and soul, where they suffered for years under the custody of the ÁVHs. They were decimated by sickness and hunger along with the everyday, seemingly endless robot. Some of the vulnerable people committed suicide because they couldn't tolerate the daily harassment, including the fact that they couldn't create conditions worthy of their family. Some were beaten to death in their homes, others lost their lives as a result of physical abuse in prison. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The Stalinist Rákosi regime launched a murderous fight against the Hungarian agricultural society, by all means sought to destroy the traditional peasant lifestyle and to force large farmers branded as kulas to leave their lands. The unbearable burden has made it a mass to leave the land. The farmers did so on the one hand to avoid continuing psychological and physical terror, and on the other, because of hopeless living conditions. Lots of people broke into their waists, so many people turned into runaways. Even today, many families who have experienced abuse and confiscation are not happy to talk about the past of the Kulas. However, it is a serious moral compensation for them that the Parliament decided to introduce the Memorial Day six years ago. This is a symbolic gesture to the humiliated, ruined farmers and their descendants. Many sins have been revealed by researchers with the help of rememberers, presenting documents. It is our duty to highlight the sins of the past as effectively as possible, and at the same time we must guarantee that something like this will never happen again in Hungary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In the early '50s, the agitation posters represented happy, laughing peasants. In reality, however, the peasantry was broken, humiliated, and especially the ones labeled as kulaks. We'll remember them today. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate and conclusion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019 will follow. The bill is T/503. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/503/7. Number 2 is available on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame available for the factions today. Mr. Messenger!
u2018-06-29-1	Dear Parliament, Today's four-hour timeframe is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 35 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 26 minutes for the MSZP Group, 20 minutes for the DK Group, 19 minutes for the LMP Group, 17 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 3 minutes for the independent Members.
u2018-06-29-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Therefore, further speeches will take place within the timeframe available for today. First, I give the floor to our fellow Member, Mr Péter Agh, the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-29-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a European state, Hungary wants to provide effective answers in a changing world to questions that affect our security, our protection and, therefore, our national survival in particular this decade. The 2019 budget before us serves, among other things, to keep our country one of the safest countries in the world. As a Member of the Parliament of Northern Vas County, I consider this to be particularly important, as this also helps to strengthen tourism, for which the built heritage of Sárvár, Bük, Celldömölk and Mesteri baths and Kőszeg provide a good basis for us in the constituency. [[8.10]] As a Member of the Parliament of the county of North Vas, I also consider it important that the external borders of the Union be controlled for the safety of all of us, but the internals are open and free to offer the opportunities that the citizens of our country and of my constituency of 77 wish to avail themselves, if they need it. Therefore, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, from the point of view of these fields, I would like to provide my support for the draft budget. On the basis of the proposal before us, it is clear: security for Hungary's national government is also the first in 2019. This will not only preserve but also significantly increase the resources needed to strengthen public security and improve defence. In this way, the budget for defence spending will be increased by HUF 86 billion; almost HUF 513 billion will be available in the area. This amount corresponds to more than 1.16 percent of the GDP forecast for the future. It is clear that a powerful force is being organised at the same time. While the Socialist Cabinets have affected the military with significant skill and staff reduction, the Zrínyi 2026 military development plan brings unprecedented skill development through the national government. This programme will be able to recover fully before 2010. In this context, the country can spend approximately HUF 150 billion on the implementation of development tasks. It is also important to note that one of the main objectives of the defence portfolio is the recovery of the Hungarian defence industry, which serves the interests of the Hungarian economy and defence at the same time. In addition, the other important goal is to make military careers attractive for young people. This will be done by involving young people in defence education and, for example, by strengthening the recruitment system. It is also linked to further development of the voluntary reserve system. While in 2010 a total of 17, there are now more than 7000 reserve players. It is at least as important to strengthen the activities of the defence in the prevention and control of disaster situations. Next year, the armed and police career model launched in 2015 will continue, and the salary of soldiers will rise again. Dear House, In addition to the defence wallet, the Ministry of Interior budget also serves to strengthen the country's security by protecting our borders and ensuring public order. There is a HUF 12.4 billion more resources for the operation of the police than before. The police expenditure of the 2019 budget consists of several elements. For the first of these, for public safety, the operation and development of the police, the National Defence Service and the Counter-Terrorism Centre, this means nearly HUF 350.5 billion. From this, the police provide an additional HUF 15.7 billion in funding to carry out their border and depth reconnaissance tasks. The second element, the operation of the Immigration and Asylum Office, is estimated to be nearly HUF 9.4 billion, and the third item is HUF 15 billion in expenditure related to the management of mass immigration. The budget for the implementation of the anti-terrorist measures is HUF 25.1 billion and HUF 77.6 billion is available for the operation and development of disaster management. It is also important to note that the government's aim is to improve the financial appreciation of professional personnel protecting the security of Hungarians, and to make the career of law enforcement even more attractive for young people. On average, the salary of professional staff increases by 50 percent between 2015 and 2019. On average, the salary of the staff will increase by another 5 percent from January onwards. In addition, in 2019 there is also a financial recognition of high-quality service provision, for which the government provides HUF 12 billion. Dear Parliament, On this basis, the proposal for next year's budget says that the government considers the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people, important. We can also make serious progress in home affairs and defence areas. In addition to developments and additional resources, however, we can be truly effective if people who love their country are prepared to make sure that the citizens of Hungary can live their daily lives safely. All those who stand up in Homeland or Homeland Security every day are people like that. We also thank you for your work here, and we hope that the 2019 budget will contribute to the successful completion of your profession. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-4	Thank you, Congressman Peter Agh. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2018-06-29-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for your words of support for the security chapters of the 2019 budget. Today, security is the most important community value in the world, in Europe, including Hungary, and Hungary is a safe country, the 15th safest country in the world today. On 8 April, people decided to ask for this security, asking us to listen to the people's wishes, this request, and, taking this into account, we presented the safety figures for the 2019 budget, because it is very important that this security is maintained. Security is the value to which tomorrow must be spent much more than we have spent today or yesterday, and that is why we have tabled this proposal, which I ask of all Members of the Parliament, to support me. As regards the numbers and objectives of the Ministry of Interior chapter, I would like to stress that with a reinforced, modern police force, further reducing crime and combating illegal migration are our most important objectives when presenting this budget. One of the main objectives of the government is to preserve Hungary's security and public order, to protect borders and to combat illegal migration effectively. [[8.20]] The national government is also committed to protecting our national sovereignty and our Christian culture. Without these, neither the economy, nor families nor businesses can be strengthened. Accordingly, the security of Hungarians is now guaranteed by more policemen, more police cars and more modern instruments than before. Overall, the operation of the police, as Mr President has said, will have 12.4 billion more resources than previously proposed, as well as the development that has started. This is a very important part of our program. The main police expenditure of the 2019 budget: public security, the operation and development of the police, the National Defence Service and the Counter-Terrorism Centre will be presented with HUF 350.5 billion. From this, the police will carry out their border and depth reconnaissance tasks, including the financing of the 3 000 border hunting development, with an additional HUF 15.7 billion grant. As you said, the Immigration and Asylum Office is running at nearly HUF 9.4 billion. Their role, their work, is essential in the fight against illegal migration, as are the activities of the police, border fighters and other law enforcement bodies. Expenditure related to the management of mass immigration is foreseen in the proposal for HUF 15 billion, but, if necessary, we can increase this appropriation. This is a top-up appropriation, and we can change it depending on the situation, and we can raise it. The aim is to protect Hungary, to protect Hungarian people as we have done since 2015. The costs associated with the implementation of the anti-terrorist measures amount to HUF 25.1 billion and HUF 77.6 billion for the operation and development of disaster management. As the Member said, on 1 July 2015, the new law on service entered into force, which also set out a new career programme for professional law enforcement and defence, and a career programme was launched for them. However, as of 1 July 2015, the new Service Act provided for an average salary increase of 50 per cent, of which the resources of 2019 provided for in the budget. That means 7.6 billion forints. But also the recognition of professional staff is the HUF 2 billion HUF 810 million framework, which provides for and defines improving the housing conditions of professional staff. I also think that it speaks for itself to provide this source for this purpose. So in 2019 we want to further strengthen the police, both in its number and in its resources, and provide a surplus of HUF 12.4 billion for the performance of its tasks and the achievement of its objectives. Resources for staff development are also provided in the 2019 budget. Dear Parliament, I believe that these figures can guarantee that if Parliament accepts this budget, we can protect Hungary in 2019, we can protect Hungarian people, Hungary remains a safe country, and we can protect Europe as we continue to defend the Schengen external border and defend the southern border with the 500-year practice of protecting Christian Europe. Like we did before, we're doing it now. Therefore, we have not received any support from the Union, and so far we have financed this from our own national funds. But we keep the promises, we said that the decision of 8 April was binding upon us when they said that they wanted security. This budget is not only a budget for safe growth, but also a budget for the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people. I therefore call on the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-6	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Gergely Farkas, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-29-7	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with Mr Secretary of State's activity and hope that I will also have an answer to my speech. It is because I would like to raise a question that is unfairly small in the debate on the budget. This is the issue of emigration and emigration. This issue can be approached from several aspects. What I would like to emphasise now is the return of those who have already migrated, which, I think, should have a very important strategic purpose for the Hungarian government. Despite all this, there is absolutely no budgetary resources for this in our budget next year. We have often debated the issue of emigration in this House, and I am now trying to find common points. I do not want to raise the scale, the scale, because we see it differently and we value it differently. More and more statistics, even conflicting ones, appear on this every day. I would not like to point out what kind of excuses you would like to make about this, although I find it very deceptive that, for you, for example, the argument is that in some countries there is greater migration in our neighbourhood. If I have to live with an example, it can be compared to someone who is terminally ill and defends that he has only a week left, and then the other terminal patient tells me that he has another year to live. Well, just because he's got another year left doesn't mean he's gonna calm anyone down. Indeed, the situation that has arisen in Hungary today with regard to emigration is a serious threat to Hungary's long-term future. He's in danger because he already has a shortage of workers. Every day we see news that even in agriculture I come from a region in Bács-Kiskun county where I can see that there are not enough workers with my own eyes to do manual work, in the tourism sector this summer we can see this mainly, or even in any area requiring vocational training, because they are abroad. So a shortage of workers can develop. But another problem in the long term could be the sustainability of our pension system, which is also easy to see that it will not be possible. It is also a problem that the Hungarian intellectuals are wandering away, precisely those young people who are entering into these travels, which you call an adventure, but which are most compulsively engaged in, are in search of work, who speak more languages, who are so skilled. I'm gonna miss these people at home. And once again, there is a long list of the kinds of problems this will cause in the country's life. A few years ago, it was a little spark, a ray of hope that you might assess the seriousness of this case, and to that end, you've been set off by the "Come home, young man!" It's a program. We can all remember that we managed to bring home a few dozen young people out of about 100 million forints. So it was obvious that the method, the way to bring him home, was not successful. At the same time, when you saw this programme and terminated it, we were looking forward with great hope to launching a new programme, which, learning from its previous lessons, will try to approach young people outside in a different way and will try to help them to return to Hungary. 'Cause there's gotta be help, that's for sure. I am sure that there are young people who could be motivated to come home with assistance in certain administrative matters, assistance in finding work, assistance in solving their housing problems, and I say once again that it would be necessary to bring these people home and to plan their future at home, to have children at home rather than abroad. Because if the latter were to happen, it would carry the possibility that he would later spend the rest of his life in another country. So there was such an attempt, the, come home, young man! A program. However, this did not work and the programme was terminated. And the sad situation is that for several years now, the Hungarian government has not had any new ambition to bring these young people and, in many cases, families home and try to help them in order to manage their lives at home. We have therefore tabled an amendment in this regard. We would like the Hungarian Government to plan for HUF 5 billion in next year's budget to launch a new programme to help these people. We do not have the Philosopher's Stone for what kind of concrete help is needed, but the effort must be manifested, set off such a goal, and the Hungarian government must give priority to this, as a message to Hungarians living outside, that they are important to us and we expect them to come home. We have tabled such an amendment, and we hope that this amending proposal will be adopted by the government to recognise and acknowledge the seriousness of this problem. Just because there are no circumstances at home that alone would suffice to bring these young people home. A number of things could be mentioned here, even in relation to young people, on which we feel that the government is not doing everything in order to solve the problems that are taking place in certain areas. [[08.30]] I could say here just as an example of housing, especially the issue of temporary housing. CSOK itself is not a solution, because many people do not think about permanent housing, but just want to find a place to live because of, say, moving to another city because of a job or a study. To this end, we would consider it very important to launch a social housing system, which would be a great help in this respect. Or to highlight another example here with regard to young people, and unfortunately this shows the government's attitude towards this generation: 12 years ago 12 years ago! no increase has been made in the amount to be allocated to the academic scholarship in respect of higher education students. I think that says a lot about your attitude. It is very important to motivate young people. What they now receive under the title of a scholarship is a ridiculous amount in today's world. We have also tabled amendments to this; to highlight only a few of the dozen amendments tabled that would help the situation of young people and would help them to say that they are not thinking about going abroad, but rather of doing well at home. In the remaining minute or two of my speech, I would like to share some points with you on another subject, and I would like to present matters concerning my constituency, on which I have also tabled proposals for amendments. I myself represent the 5th constituency of Bács-Kiskun County as a better-looking MP. I have tabled an amendment to this constituencies with the centre of Kiskunhalas, which include 22 other settlements, because this area, unfortunately, is lagging behind, two of the ten poorest regions of the country, more precisely, are located in this constituency. This therefore also supports on a statistical basis the need for serious improvements either in infrastructure or in meeting the specific needs of the municipalities. For example, I have tabled an amendment to improve inland waterways. Almost all of these 23 settlements have been affected by this problem, and I dare say this with such confidence, because in the last year I have had the opportunity to meet almost all the mayors personally, to talk about the problems of their settlement, and there has been no discussion where this would not have been discussed, saying that the settlement itself has very little potential, virtually no money for such investments to improve inland roads in the settlement, but at the same time it would be very important. I have therefore tabled an amendment to this. Like humans, the daily life of the people there is affected by the renovation of the sidewalks in these settlements. We are also talking about a problem that affects all settlements as well, that would be necessary everywhere, but the municipalities themselves can manage it in very few cases. Bringing here a few individual cases of the few dozen I have submitted: for example, it would be a great opportunity to develop high-quality thermal water beaches for several settlements. This is the case in Kiskunhalas and in my home town, Kecelen, both settlements have very good qualities, but unfortunately, in both settlements there is only an old, long-term beach, which has passed by the time and thus is unable to meet the challenges of the age. Beach development is very important in both settlements, and I have tabled an amendment to the creation of these resources. In Kiskunhalas I would like to highlight one of the inland roads, which is the construction of the bypass section of Highway 55 and the start of its design. This is an old request from the people of Kiskunhalas, and it is very important to move forward in this matter, and I have also tabled an amendment to this. But I could also mention here my amendment to Kisszállás, Kunfehértó, Tataháza, Bácsalmás and many other settlements, which I have submitted, and I hope that the majority of the government will see that these are necessary in order to develop the region. I trust that my fellow Fidesz Member, Gábor Bányai, will finally support these proposals and, with his support, they can be adopted and the development of the area can finally be accelerated. I think that this would be an important goal for the people who live there. In conclusion, on the issue of emigration, I am confident in their positive attitude that they are able to support a programme that helps immigrants to return home, and on the other hand, I hope that in the case of my constituency, these amendments will also be supported by you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-8	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. The next announced speaker is Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-06-29-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. Allow me to briefly summarise the guiding principles of the preparation of the 2019 budget, the results of the last period, the facts, the main objectives, the proposals for action drawn up, and to highlight a number of lines from the budget. When preparing the 2019 budget, the government set the goal of maintaining Hungary's security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families and achieving full employment. We have achieved extraordinary results in the areas set out in recent years. Since 2010, unemployment has decreased from nearly 12 percent to 3.8 percent, with more than 750 thousand people working in Hungary today than in 2010. In recent years, the national government has developed an exemplary family support system. It has reduced taxes on work and the most important food, significantly reduced household charges, and has implemented comprehensive wage increases. Bearing in mind the government's economic policy, the main objectives of 2019 are: to increase support for families to address demographic challenges and protect family values, encourage childbearing and differentiated support for child rearing; to promote the building of a work-based society, to keep work in mind instead of aid, to reduce labour-related costs; to maintain the purchasing power of pensions for pensioners in order to ensure that pensioners are moral and financial respect; to ensure that pensioners benefit from the economic growth achieved; as a step to encourage employment and to help older people to work, the removal of the burden on workers working alongside pensions, while at the same time exempting employers from paying social contribution taxes; to continue the accepted career plans in the public sector, to increase the financial appreciation of public-service providers with additional wage arrangements; to preserve the security of Hungary and Hungarian people, and to improve the protection of our country's defence capabilities against terrorist threats and illegal immigration, to protect and strengthen public safety; to improve road infrastructure and transport infrastructure in order to develop the Hungarian countryside. The fundamental objective of Fidesz-KDNP is to improve conditions for economic growth, to maintain economic competitiveness and to create a competitive tax system. This aspect also applies in the tax law and in the 2019 budget. We will continue to reduce taxes on work and the tax burden on businesses and families. On the basis of the multi-annual wage agreement concluded with entrepreneurs in 2016, we will continue to reduce taxes on labour, and the rate of social contribution tax is expected to decrease by another 2 percentage points to 17.5 percent next year. The Hungarian government has been pursuing a family-friendly policy since 2010, and that is our goal in the future. Next year, not only will there be a system of family tax incentives, but it will also expand. In 2019, the tax relief for families with two children will double in 2015 to HUF 40,000 a month, leaving nearly 350 thousand families with more money. The increase in 2019 will provide an additional income of up to 240 thousand HUF per year for families compared to 2015. The most important of the above-mentioned objectives is the achievement of demographic stability by strengthening Hungarian, child-bearing and educational families, implementing professional programmes and actions to strengthen family-friendly public thinking, increasing the well-being of families, building a work- and family-based society, to which the sector contributes in cooperation with the co-sectors, strengthening the family-friendly approach. [[8.40]] In addition to the increase in the tax relief of two children, the tax relief of the first married couple will remain next year, the three-year child and child extra, as well as the amount of public funds for home creation. In 2019 we spend more money than ever to support home creation. Next year, even this year, there will be 16 billion forints more for home creation. Since the introduction of CSOK in 2015, it has helped to create 75,000 families. The family support system has fulfilled its expectations. Thanks to the system of family tax incentives, between 2011 and 2018 HUF 1900 billion remained for families with children. In 2019 there will be more money than ever, HUF 2004 billion to support families, which is HUF 75 billion more than twice as high in 2018 than the amount the Balliberal Government spent on families before 2010 - and 130,000 parents no longer pay taxes or contributions on their income. As my fellow Member has mentioned, the Hungarian Ministry of Defence has a statutory duty to protect Hungary's independence, territorial integrity, its borders, its population and its material assets, as set out in international treaties. Security will be one of the most important challenges in the coming years because of the immigration that has hit Europe and the terrorist threat and the consequences of public security. This is why next year we provide nearly HUF 350 billion for public security, the operation and development of the police. About HUF 25 billion will be allocated to counter-terrorism tasks, and from January the salary of law enforcement workers will increase by another 5 percent, which, together with previous increases, will increase by 50 percent. Finally, the government will spend HUF 512 billion on defence, which is 85 billion more than this year's amount. The aim is to double protection spending in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. The next announced speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-06-29-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the budget, as I have been doing for years, I would like to talk primarily about the situation of the municipalities, but let me have two sentences on the budget in general. For years, we have seen that the Fidesz government has been primarily trying to help those people in terms of budget figures, regardless of the fact that ten million Hungarian countries in Hungary, who are in a relatively good position and should not be particularly supportive of their daily lives, but what we see from the other side is that people who are in need would really need the care and support of the state, so the poor people are in fact in a sort of insecurity. We also see and find that the state is spending more and more on itself, because if we look at the government's operation, the support of the ministries, then we can't really say that there is no secretary of state in this room. We also see that while the government is expecting economic growth of 4.1 percent, it still refuses to spend more on welfare expenditure in proportion to GDP, and, as we can see, overall, if we look at health, education, support for families, support for the poor in the current budget, there is no more than before. On the basis of the situation of the municipalities, in 2014, the municipal system went through a huge transformation, but the structural transformation of municipal tasks was not followed by the funding of the municipalities. What we see is that the tasks set out in some of the support points of the municipal funding system are actually entered in the budget in the same form year after year. If I have already said that the government is saying that every year the country is constantly strengthening and performing better, then I think that the funding of the municipalities should have been adapted to this, because there are still tasks that are not or are not sufficiently financed by the State from the central budget. These include social and child welfare tasks. I think that the money transferred to social benefits should be rethinked. We also see that the role of local authorities in terms of financial social aid has been significantly altered, basically passed on to municipalities to help disadvantaged people's everyday lives by introducing so-called municipal aid, but we have repeatedly said that in many cases, especially in the case of small settlements, this is a problem because the state has not given any resources to do so, and the municipalities should solve it themselves, because they have money for this, but we can see that they do not have much support for this. Insufficient funding is provided for the general medical centre, especially in terms of less population settlements, but I could say lawnmaster tasks, joint municipal official funding, as well as the financing of the library and cultural products, where there are problems. There's no justification for the normative difference. I am thinking here that the municipality also maintains institutions as mandatory and voluntary tasks whose norm differs from that of the ecclesiastical norm. Obviously, everyone knows that the normative of churches is higher, and I think that this is fundamentally unjustified and incomprehensible, because, yes, local governments are able to perform the tasks of churches at the same level, in the same way, with similar effectiveness. If we look at the financial situation of churches and municipalities, then we can also say that the financial opportunities of the municipalities are no better than those of the church, so it should be balanced somewhere, so it is not certain that the church normative should be set higher in the budget. For this reason, for the third year I have been using my amending proposal to improve the financing of municipalities with the same content, and I hope that once the majority of the government will also support it - which provides for a better situation for the municipalities. I am making these amendments because I believe that since 2014 the reform of the municipalities has been taking place, basically the crushing of the local government and the continuous downsizing of local authorities by continuously taking the funds away from the local authorities, transferring the tasks, and I am now holding on to the claim that the state has taken away much more resources from the municipalities than it has already taken on. The point of my amendment is, therefore, once again, to improve the situation of the municipalities, which is also the same as the amendment proposal of the National Association of Local Governments. One of its items happens to be that a specific part of personal income tax remains with the municipalities, where it was also before 2014 before the local government's transformation. And my other amendment concerns part of the car tax. We also think in the same way with the National Association of Municipal Local Governments, although they were braver, as they suggest that the motor vehicle tax should remain fully in the municipalities, I think only 80 percent more modestly, but we agree with the advocacy alliance that if this money were to remain with the municipalities, it should primarily be used to improve infrastructure, such as pavements and roads. While we are talking about roads, on the one hand, it has proved practical and useful, and I think that a good direction is the source that the Ministry of Interior can apply for, which concerns improving inland roads, also agreeing with the interest protection association that this money is basically very small and very little. Last week I asked the Ministry about the state of the roads of Csongrád county, but we can also see and say that the national roads are in very bad shape, and here I spoke not only about the side roads connecting the settlements, but also about the state of the three-digit roads and the main roads. [[8.50]] I think that there should be much more funding in the budget for improving the inland roads of settlements and for improving and improving the road network. It is also to be welcomed that, if this is the case, the government intends to introduce a new programme, I happen to think of the programme of modern villages, which is similar to the programme of modern cities. Of course, it should also be noted here that this is interesting and true if it does not serve as a campaign, as we would otherwise see, because here too, too, it should be taken into account, in particular, that this programme should be given equal weight, if at all, for consideration both the municipalities where opposition leaders exist and the municipalities where there are otherwise pro-government representatives, because, unfortunately, this has not been the case so far. If this programme is to be launched at all, I think it is essential and important that the experts of the municipalities concerned be involved in the development of this programme. Finally, let me say a few words about the remuneration of civil servants. Fair and orderly remuneration conditions and order should be created, I think, both for public servants in government and municipal employment. We see that there is an 11 billion-dollar fund that would serve the public service wage increase, but basically we see that this is done at the expense of the richer municipalities; in fact, there is no extra money that seems to exist. If we divide this down nicely, it means basically, although it is not small, but it is about 40,000 forints for the public servants. This 11 billion fund is likely to prove to be small, especially in view of the fact that we are talking about a budget line of 20 billion, which is the country's budget. Thus, about 36,000 local government workers, 30,000 central officials, may have enough to pay for this money, which is once again incomprehensible, as it will be distributed by tender. I will also be interested to see which municipalities will benefit from this. But if we are talking about only 36,000 local government workers, there is still no response to the situation of 100,000, but at least 80,000 employees, there is still no solution. I think, as we have already said before, that the civil servant's salary fund has not been rising for nine years now - that would be a fair and fair wage increase if we were to raise this salary fund anyway. I would like to ask the honourable members of the Government to support my amendment, because I think that the funding of the settlements has not been resolved today, and I think it is necessary to improve the situation of the settlements. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-29-12	Thank you, Congressman Szabó. The next speaker is Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-29-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This budget has already been addressed with a number of indications, and there are different ideas about how this budget should be called. I would like to keep the budget for sustainable development, which is careful and must be kept. Caution is certainly warranted. I'd like to quote the Prime Minister. He says: there is potential for growth in the economy, but only if we can protect the economy and thus the budget from the manifestations and storms of the emerging crisis. It is rhymed by the Minister of Finance's statement that, when the budget was set up, the Cabinet took account of the processes in the world economy, which could also turn into a crisis, thus increasing reserves. Dear House, I think that the foresight and wise foresight that marked the budget is reassuring and necessary. We can see very well in recent days that turbulences can arise without any prior sign or need, for example, around the forint, whose predictability is very, very difficult or impossible, because it is driven by forces the movement of which can hardly be determined in advance. However, I think that there is no cause for concern, because the budget, which I hope will be born by a large majority by 2019, clearly contains reserves of a kind and I am thinking not only of the scale already placed in reserve, but also of the individual chapters - which will allow us to talk about safe development in the following. Dear House, It is about this, and it must be clearly seen that the government has defined the budget along the lines of the objectives and I must say that the Minister of Finance has played a major role in this too - that we can continue with the opportunity that has provided guaranteed progress in eight years. I say the role of Minister of Finance because it is important for me that the Minister of Finance, as Mikszáth once said, leaves his ticket, his stamp on the budget, he is somewhere his birth mother. Consequently, it must be seen that it is a finance minister who has submitted this, who is a calm, calm, representative of the Protestant world that has guaranteed security for hundreds of years, a kind of development in the Western world. This is what is comforting to me in the sense that this calculated and sometimes a little tight, for example, developmental opportunity, growth, which, according to 4.1 percent of people, may be a little overrated, some say only 3.9, but some say that it can be up to 4.5 percent, so there is uncertainty in it, but there is uncertainty in my belief that it is obviously also around inflation. It is not safe to say that inflation is going to be around 2 or 3 percent, but I think that the current budget makes it possible to maintain the inflation target, 3 percent, and this is a very important issue. In this regard, I would like to draw the Government's attention to something with great respect. It is clear that the objective that has been pursued by the government so far, namely the need to continuously reduce public debt, is being pursued by this budget. But we also need to see that, in the coming time, what has been successful and successful so far is that instead of being in debt abroad, domestic options, domestic deposits should be seized. However, to do so, I believe that sooner or later it is necessary to consider how these domestic savings can really be concentrated and kept in such a way that it can serve the following budget. I consider this to be a fundamental issue, and I believe that there will be something to be done in this area. We have examined this budget primarily from the point of view of small farmers allied with Fidesz, how much it will be possible to implement the programme that the new Minister for Agriculture has presented in quite detail and at various points. This shows developments and improvements that do not require excessive costs, of course require budgetary resources, but I believe these budgetary resources are now included in this budget. What's this about? Among other things, it is necessary to implement an innovation within agriculture that always involves money, but without which it is difficult to imagine the development of agriculture in the following. We have a lot to do in this area, because, while we have achieved many results in agriculture, I must say that the reserves are so large in this sector that it is mandatory to make use of them. It is very important for us, among the objectives of agriculture, which I would like to address with rural development, the objectives that clearly show that we have a plan to strengthen and maintain small and medium-sized settlements. There were also significant resources in the budget in this area, and their use is not irrelevant. It doesn't matter what proportions will be between the small and the larger. It doesn't matter how these things work. In this respect, too, I see opportunities that will need to be clearly exploited in the following areas. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the objective of this budget, which was not secretly very important, was to strengthen security. That is why I consider it important that adequate resources are available for defence purposes, and I must say for internal affairs purposes, for police purposes. The world is moving in a direction that needs to be seen clearly, not only because the Prime Minister said so, but because the world is turning out this way - where security aspects are increasingly appreciated. [[9.00]] Indeed, guarantees are given to us by the European Union, NATO, various allied systems, but true security is provided by our own security. This should therefore provide opportunities that will serve the country well in the coming time. I know that education and health will be a central issue throughout the debate. There is no need to bypass this, both very important and very good progress can be made with the current resources contained in the budget. However, I believe that this requires even better use than before. The following must also be able to set internal targets so that they can use these amounts in emphasis, but in no way in such a way that they are no longer visible. They should be visible, clearly, clearly able to serve these goals. To sum up, this House, my position is that this budget must be able to endure the trials that are not Europe, but the whole world will be exposed to in the coming days. The abundance of money, I think, and most economists in this world agree, is over. Or at least it's coming to an end, but I think it's over. If that's what this is about, it's what you need to be prepared for. Now, I don't want to hurt the opposition, but when the opposition counts on something that's not there anymore, I can hardly call it responsible. With responsibility, we can only count on the world in which we live and within which we need to find the best solutions for Hungary, the Hungarians. I am convinced that this budget can safely be supported from the right, from the left, from the government side, from the opposition, because this means the security of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-14	Thank you, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I now give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, may the political group be different.
u2018-06-29-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must already argue with our fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács. You began your speech by saying that this is a budget for sustainable development. Basically, I think that he was talking about the LMP budget, because what we are submitting, we are submitting more than 200 amendments to the budget, complementing and modifying this budget, I think it could indeed become a budget for sustainable development. However, there is a tough condition for this: Fidesz-KDNP must vote for our amendments. Fantastic things would be voted on, for example, that home care would be immediately minimum wage, and that there would be long-standing wage increases in this country. Let me point out a little chat, this morning at the grocery store, I noticed that the customers demanded that another checkout open, because it was so long in the line. And the security guard wittily said to give me the phone number to England, and then he'll bring cashiers here. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? I am saying that if the wage increase does not occur in Hungary, this country will be eliminated. Moreover, our amendments would also make it very much easier on the burden of families, for example by extending family allowances and family tax incentives to young people up to the age of 24 in the event of their participation in higher education. But, of course, as a green party, it is also essential for us to strengthen environmental and nature protection. Our budget, the LMP budget, also gives us the opportunity to do so. However, I would like to talk about a subject that is about my narrower living environment, because there are a number of problems that we experience every day, but it seems that there is little about it here in the Hungarian Parliament. It seems that the Fidesz congressman who won the district does not want to represent the local people here in Parliament, but rather wants to represent the Fidesz there. The world's a little turned upside down, so I'd like to correct that. I begin by saying that there is a solidarity figure, a contribution, a tax, whatever it is that you hope for 50 billion forints in this budget. This money, by the way, is double what it was when it was introduced. I would like to say that this is a measure that is infinitely unfair. You've bled out the local governments and are trying to sabotage those that, for some reason, perform better, as you say. György Gémesi, one of the most successful mayors in Hungary. [[Uproar and clarity in the pro-government benches.]] Fidesz-KDNP also said very wittyly, thank you very much; perhaps press a button and explain why they think differently than I do - so he said that we have seen profits taken from the more successful ones, but they called it socialism. So this solidarity figure clearly quotes the spirit of socialism. Where I live, the settlements there are virtually half-death sentences. It is a political decision that is clearly being taken away from Budaörs because they want to punish the citizens of Budaörs because they dared to elect an opposition mayor and therefore disproportionately take a lot of money from the settlement. It's just that Fidesz-KDNP keeps talking while I'm talking, but we got used to it. Where I grew up, I was told that no one had a nursery. The point is, they are mad at Budaörs for a lot of things at Fidesz-KDNP. For example, because he can keep his school in his own hands even when the government is doing everything in its power to distract him, and no municipality can have schools, which, I think, is an infinitely inappropriate and unhealthy practice. For my part, I can say that we are abolishing this solidarity contribution, tax and tribute one at a time, which is also in our amendment proposals, because we do not think that the spirit of socialism should be maintained here in the 21st century. In the century, performance must be rewarded. And settlements where they do well do not steal money, but produce and pay attention to it, farm well, let them keep these money. Otherwise, there must be a social network in the country that, if any settlement is in trouble, it can be helped there. Of course, not like they did with the city of Pécs, that he was under guardianship, but that's an interesting fidesz story, let's talk about it among ourselves, because that's what you did, fellow Members of the Fidesz. Then let's talk a little bit about the situation of our families, the situation of our children. You're planning some kind of demographic governance, aren't you? I'm glad to say that Fidesz has little to do with this, but we have a lot of kids. I don't think there are as many children born in any part of the country as we do. Nevertheless, there is a continuous crèche shortage, a lack of playgrounds. There is such a lack of zebras that we fear for our children when they cross the road, because somehow there is no money to build zebras in the right places, and therefore there are deaths. I would also like to add that there is a school shortage. We fought to expand the building in one of our schools, so we could fit the kids, and somehow we couldn't get any help. For my part, if you keep talking about wanting demographic change, I can tell you that you should pay attention to families, not the Ripper family, and the Garancsi family, and these families, but the families of everyday life. For example, you preach about living more athleticly. It's summer now. The topic of public speaking is how many parents teach their children how to swim, because it requires water, so it would require schooling. I've been listening to Budakeszin for years. Instead, families in Budakes can either take their children to a very expensive place to learn how to swim or take them far away because they have been unable to build a school for years. Therefore, we have introduced in our budget programme a school development amendment that would be about making it easier for Hungarian children across the country to learn how to swim, because where there is no natural water, parents would also like to keep their children safe when they are near water. And then let's talk a little bit about transport, because you also said that the previous speaker, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, is that this is also a budget for security. Well, my safety begins with the fact that if I get on the bus, for example, I'll get off it safely. That's the big deal. I'd like to tell you that buses 22 are in such a state that we saw more of them the other day, that a father consecrated the bus, incensed the bus. Well, we've been talking to each other in a witty way, that this bus is really just being held together by the Holy Spirit. 'Cause if you guys were taking the 22nd bus, you'd see that the buses were broken down, people would get off and go to the next stop, because the bus was on fire, for example. But I'll tell you something worse. A traffic accident occurred while families and pensioners headed for Páty from Biatorbágy. What happened was that there were three factors together. One of them is that the road was messy. The other is that the bus was of poor quality, and it has just fallen apart practically under the passengers. And the third factor was that the bus drivers were extremely overwhelmed. These three coincidences. The bus was only saved by the bus driver's experience to hit a tree and steer the bus between two trees. [[9.10]] Many families, families with three children, have been injured because for years there has been no money for the maintenance of the bus network, for the proper messing. And now a requirement for bus drivers has been introduced, which means that sometimes they have to move so that they can't take it anymore, and sometimes they have to slow down in traffic, because they have to arrive from one point to another for time. These are three factors that we on the spot, who take the bus, have often been called a fatal threesome, because this is a constant risk over the heads of the people who live there. [[Constant intervention from the representatives of Fidesz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Now I have the floor, so listen to me, and I'll tell you, because... [[Noise in the room. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like you to vote in favour of this amendment. Here's the thing. [[The president's ringing again.]] At my house in Pest 2, where I live, families talk about how they don't dare let their kids on the bus, because what if there's another accident like this? There, the amendment was submitted in the budget by the LMP, which is about how we can finally renew this bus network. I'm asking you to vote for it, because security starts there, as I said, when I get on the bus, I want to get off safely. The other is the journey time. You have introduced the tolls, and this is also a tribute to the settlements where I live. Anyway, that means the story was screwy in the meantime, so we've been in traffic a lot, but we've been sitting even more ever since. Since there are no bus lanes in sufficient quantities, it is often not worth it for people to get out of the car and get on the bus, because, as I said, our buses are often life-threatening, but there is no bus lane next to them, so the bus is stuck in traffic just like the driver. Therefore, we have also submitted an amendment to the direct bus lane, and we would like to see bus lanes in that area in order to lure people from individual transport to public transport. This would be a very serious development, it would help a lot of people living in that region. It is not only a settlement that is close to Budapest, Budakeszi, but all the other settlements that people move to, but a lot of people go to Budapest to work. I feel the same way, I feel the same way every day about this problem with the other residents. This is all the problems the Fideszes have been shouting about - the budget that we can manage in the budget, in this we can solve, because, for example, it is not difficult to see that when it comes to the problems of more local governments, if we help them from the central budget, then obviously every local government will have a better life, but the whole of Budapest will have a better life, because people can get to work in time. I am very pleased that our colleague Márius Révész has also arrived, because I also wanted to talk about the development of the bicycle network. We live in an environment where there would be a lot of bike trips. I often pray that the cyclists who go by the side of the road arrive alive where they go. I'm one of those bikers a lot, and I have a lot of bikes in my family. We really need bike trips, so we've put in an amendment for that too. I'd like Budakeszin and his neighborhood, Pest, to build bicycle roads all over. Many citizens of Budapest also come there to find recreation, to relax, to play sports, but we like to play sports there ourselves. I have tabled an amendment to each of these problems that I have listed to you with the support of the LMP fraction. I ask you to consider these everyday problems that I have talked about and vote not only on these amendments, but also on all the others, and then indeed, as Béla Turi-Kovács said, this will be a budget for sustainable development. But sustainable development, for example, does not start at the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, but, let's say, to use bus number 22 here in Budapest and around. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-29-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2018-06-29-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to start with the fact that, in the context of the cash-flow problem mentioned by Mrs Bernadett Szél, it may also have a role to play in the fact that there has been a steady increase in retail sales in front of the tellers for years, which, I think, is the result of real wages actually increasing. Only in the last year has there been more than 10 percent increase in real wages, so the population's purchasing power has increased, and I repeat, this has also played a substantial role in what you said. But I think that another important factor should be mentioned, which was also mentioned by Mrs President and Mr Gergely Farkas, namely the statement or the suspicion that there is a shortage of labour in Hungary because people have gone abroad. That's an important statement, and that's why I'm always asking you to look at the facts. After Hungary's accession to the European Union, there was no doubt that, together with accession, there was an increase in the number of working abroad as a result of the free movement of labour. But if the basic statement is true that there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, there are between 80 and 90 000 vacant posts because everyone has gone abroad, then we should see that unemployment should be even lower in the EU countries with higher employment rates abroad. I think it's a pretty clear connection. After that, please allow me to explain some of the numbers. According to UN migration data, migration from the region was the lowest rate in Hungary. In 2017, 6.5 percent of the Hungarian population lived and worked abroad; again, this is the lowest rate in the region. This indicator is 18.2 per cent for Bulgaria and 17.5 per cent for Romania and 12.4 per cent for Poland. But let's also look at Western European countries. In Ireland, 16.8 percent of the population live and work abroad, 10,5 percent in Luxembourg and 8.1 percent in Switzerland are the same indicator. Eurostat also has data on the number of people aged 20-64 working and living in the European Union. In Hungary, this rate is 5.2 percent, in Croatia 14 percent, in Portugal 13.9, in Romania 19.7 percent, so the ratio of 20-64-year-olds working in other countries of the European Union is 8.8, in Luxembourg and 8.1, in Poland 7.8. So we find many European countries in the region and among Western European countries, where there is a higher proportion of people and workers living abroad. I repeat, this would lead to lower unemployment in these countries, but that is not the case! The latest statistics show that there is 3.7 percent unemployment. Let us look at the unemployment rate in Ireland, Slovakia, Poland: higher. What's the consequence? The fact that it is, in fact, due to economic growth and the associated increase in employment, that today we are faced with the problem of limiting firms' growth to the availability of skilled workers in many areas. Thank God we're faced with this, not what was in 2010 that there was an unemployment problem of around 12 percent. I repeat, let's look at the employment growth data. In terms of growth alone, the average growth in Hungary has been 3.6 percent over the past 4 years, and I repeat, this was accompanied by the number of employees and the rise in real wages. As far as the local government is concerned, it is Member Sándor Szabó and Mrs Bernadett Szél who also made serious findings. Congressman Sándor Szabó said that if I wrote it right, he used the word "Tip" [[Sándor Szabó nodds.]] There's more resources to the center than you've taken on. [[Antal Csárdi: That's right!]] If that were the case, the financial situation of the municipalities should have deteriorated. Allow me to read you facts. With some insight into the situation before 2010, when everything was so good, everything worked perfectly, I'm sorry if I'm cornered, but I'd like to say facts -: the 2002 cash flow balance in the municipalities is 105 billion minus, in 2006 157 billion minus, in 2010 232 billion HUF minus. Allow me to say the balance of government debt consolidation, transfer of EU funds, which has been cleared from individual items since 2011; if I did not, I would have to report hundreds of billions of HUF extras. In 2011 1.2 billion plus; in 2012 HUF 16.6 billion plus; in 2013 HUF 76.6 billion plus; in 2014 HUF 20.8 billion plus; in 2015 HUF 13.6 billion plus; in 2016 HUF 78.5 billion plus; from 2017 we have no final data yet, but the balance of local governments is around zero. So I think that the transformation that has been achieved has brought stability to the municipal system. [[9.20]] If you consider that the municipalities cannot have a lack of operation in a given year and can only be indebted to development purposes in a way that they can repay their debts later, then, yes, significant changes have taken place. I'm sure it's in our best interest. This is also the reason why we have been able to reduce public debt. It is also due to this that our deficit today, the deficit of the state as a whole, was well below 3 per cent, while partly due to the municipal funding system and, thanks to its large deficits, we all know that we have been under the excessive deficit procedure for nine years. Let us not forget that the central budget has assumed over HUF 1300 billion in debt from the municipalities. This debt didn't go away. The taxpayers, we all paid for this, but it was not the local authorities who had to manage this resource, but thanks to the God of gratitude, the expansion of the economy and structural changes that we can repay these debts by reducing the overall debt-to-GDP ratio year-on-year. With regard to the solidarity contribution, let me say once again that it is strange for me to say that left-wing parties often demand solidarity in the government and, in addition, an instrument that still allows substantial financing differences in international comparison within the municipal system is criticized. What am I talking about? Let's look at OECD statistics or other international statistics that show the financial potential of local authorities. We see that, before the introduction of the solidarity contribution tax, these differences in Hungary were much larger than in other countries of Europe thanks to business tax revenues. For this reason, the government and Parliament have decided to introduce a system that required a solidarity contribution, taking into account the tax capacity of local governments, which is not withdrawn by the central budget, but left in the local government system. It leaves and provides funding for less well-funded municipalities. Why? Because the philosophy is that public tasks must be performed by all local governments, kindergarten, nursery, social tasks, administrative tasks. However, this system transformation has also resulted in the fact that, once again, the management of the whole municipal system is stable, that the more disadvantaged or weaker authorities can be provided with additional resources from the central budget, and on the other hand, the solidarity contribution system does not result in the surplus business tax being completely deducted from the central budget from one year to the next. Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amount of the solidarity contribution tax is significantly increasing because the country is expanding, the economy is expanding, and the local government's revenue for business tax is, by definition, increasing. When Mr Sándor Szabó says that if the country is better, then the municipalities will receive more money, Mr President, according to our calculations in 2019 the business tax revenue of local governments will increase by nearly HUF 60 billion. I think that it is also in the interest of local authorities to adopt a budget by the Parliament that serves the expansion of the economy while preserving stability, as it will also result in additional revenues at local level. As regards the funding of public tasks for municipalities, I am very pleased that there are regions in the country where the average fertility rate exceeds the national rate, which is growing with joy. We have often said that the downward trend has been reversed in the year 2011, if I remember correctly, and the fertility rate has gone about 1.2 percent, if I remember correctly, from below 1.2 levels to above. The trend, I think, is welcome and positive. Of course, this is far from the fertility rate above 2, but perhaps it is due to the measures taken in recent years that more children are born now than they were born a few years ago. This is what he responds to, and I believe that economic policy, as well as next year's draft budget law, is responding by changing the funding system for nursery schools or the funding system for kindergartens. Today and according to our plans, the budget will provide more funding for the funding of kindergartens and crèches next year than it did 3-4 years ago, and in addition, as a result of the decision of the National Assembly, local governments are obliged to open crèches and build crèches if, under the statutory conditions, the number of children in the settlement exceeds the statutory limit or if a specific number of parents so requests. The budget also provides development resources from EU and domestic funds, and does so in the 2019 Budget Act proposal. Finally, let me do one thing, one general thing. Mr Sándor Szabó said that the budget and economic policy help people in good standing and leave others behind. Mr President, I am arguing with this statement, because instead of the often mentioned aid, it is the principle of working that those who are able and able to work must have a job opportunity and can earn more income from job opportunities than from aid. Who is unable to work for health or age reasons, and who are provided with the necessary resources by the central budget or local authorities. The largest area, perhaps the largest layer here, is pensioners, where the real value of pensions has been reminded again, not only preserved in recent years, but has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010. This does not include pension premium payments, the Erzsébet voucher is not included, and next year's draft budget law also expects that, thanks to an increase of more than 3.5 percent, the pension premium may be paid. And if you work, your income increases. I mentioned that real wages only increased over 10 percent last year, but the real earnings of minimum wage earners also increased substantially, beyond the nominal amount. I would add that the real earnings of minimum wage workers increased much more between 2010 and 2018 than between 2002 and 2010. [[Sándor Szabó intervenes.]] Congressman, I can hear you. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me mention a methodological thing. Real earnings take into account tax changes and take into account inflation rates. I have corrected the data, which I will quote to you exactly. Let me say that the real earnings of the childless, childless, minimum wage workers, I say, in real earnings adjusted by taxes and inflation increased much more after 2010 than between 2002 and 2010. In the case of children who worked on minimum wage, their real earnings decreased before 2002 and 2010, whether they had one child or had two or three children, and increased between 2010 and 2018 to around 90% in the case of three children. So when you're talking about budget and economic policy creating social tensions, increasing inequalities, I'm asking you to look at the numbers in front of them, and the numbers will prove the exact opposite. In the next year's budget, too, we expect that real wages will increase overall, for example, the same gross earnings for two children will result in an increase in net earnings as the benefit increases and therefore the absolute amount of family allowances will increase in 2019 compared to 2018. With this in mind, I propose to discuss the budget and, if you think so, to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-18	Thank you, Secretary of State Peter Banai. The next speaker, who announced this in advance, is Mr Károly Panczél, Member of the Fidesz Group. [[9.30]]
u2018-06-29-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My colleague Béla Turi-Kovács, who was before me from the group, called the draft budget 2019 a calm, balanced and sustainable budget. I myself consider the budget for better living and security from the point of view of the Hungarian families. I would like to say specifically from a national political point of view about the Hungarianity of the divided parts of the country and the diaspora Hungarians. In particular, from the point of view of the Hungarians in the divided parts of the country, the budget for survival and growth is this, 19th. Of course, this goes against everything that happened there before 2010 in the eight years when the Hungarian Permanent Conference was abolished, and Hungarians from across the border were denied, politicalized in the area of national politics along with the ideology of being small. We can say that Hungary's central budget is the best measure of how we have managed to make support for foreign Hungarians system-wide over the last eight years. Hungary has been guaranteeing the permanent functioning, development of Hungarian institutions and organisations abroad, the continuity and continuous expansion of programmes to strengthen Hungarian communities abroad for many years now. Thanks to predictable support from the motherland, I stress about five thousand institutions, runs five thousand institutions, and has made their programmes sustainable, primarily with the resources provided by the Bethlen Gábor Fund, so that we can maintain and operate this institutional system. Thanks to the resources provided in the budget, we can guarantee the continuity and continuous expansion of several programmes that take significant steps to increase Hungarian communities abroad. These are, for example, the thematic years of the State Secretariat for National Policy, which have been operating continuously since 2012. This year, for example, is the year of Hungarian families from abroad, and this is how Hungarian families from abroad are supported. Or I would like to highlight the gradually expanding Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme targeting the sporadic, where the number of people who have been sent out is 215 already in 2018. They arrive at the diaspora and the Hungarians living in the sporadic. In the 2019 draft budget, the Bethlen Gábor Fund will increase its resources by HUF 1.4 billion, and this will continue to ensure the stability of national policy. Ladies and gentlemen, We can also be happy to say that the national political approach is woven across the entire public administration. A number of wallets operate programs that target Hungarians from abroad in whole or in part. We can think more and more about a united nation. As early as 2017 the national political expenditure amounted to HUF 100 billion. One of the largest movements in recent years in 17 and 18 is the approximately 40 billion-dollar kindergarten development program we launched in the Carpathian Basin. At the same time, I should also mention the educational, cultural and religious support of the Ministry of Human Resources, which has also made significant progress in the creation of a single educational and cultural space in the Carpathian Basin. The continuation of this work is also guaranteed by the appropriations of 19 and also by the fact that church affairs and national policy have come under joint management in the new governance structure. We are very happy to see the further increase in the funds allocated to the Unlimited! programme in the draft 19 so that in 2019 this tender system can continue with more than HUF 5.6 billion. I think that I should emphasise the educational impact of this, because these class trips across the border have many educational opportunities, and this HUF 5.6 billion guarantees and guarantees that all good, professionally founded applications can be winners and more and more children can travel across the border. The draft budget also represents a step forward in the idea that the Carpathian Basin is an economic area, and, compared to previous years, it also provides an enormous amount, some HUF 50 billion, for the economic development plans in the Carpathian Basin, which we have already started in the previous years, is actually coming to an end in the South, continues in Transcarpathian and Felvidék, with the largest amount in these areas. This ensures that Hungarians, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian businesses across the border can manage their fate in their own hands, with support from the motherland in their homeland. It is also important to mention, for example, the initiative of the agricultural portfolio, and also a step forward in opening up to the Hungarians abroad, as the villager programme in the Carpathian Basin already provides more than HUF 400 million as a source of national policy in this field. Overall, we can see an encouraging draft from a national political point of view, which will result in the preservation of foreign Hungarians as well as the strengthening of cooperation between the mother country and the foreign Hungarians in as many areas as possible. Thank you very much for your attention and for the support of the budget. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-29-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Károly Panczél. I now give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, representative of nationality.
u2018-06-29-21	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlages Nr. T/503. über den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen in diesem Endspurt der Debatte wieder erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position once again in the final round of the general debate, on behalf of the Central Budget of 2019, T/503. Bill No.2 on the parts of the legislation concerning ethnic needs. I started my speech on Wednesday with a look back at the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary at the beginning of the last cycle, what and how we have been able to move forward in the last four years, where we are today, what tasks are ahead of us, because without sufficient knowledge of all this, it is not possible to assess the past years or the national needs relating to the 2019 central budget in a realistic way, to manage them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. At the end of my comment, I said that 13 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 5 billion HUF 120 million amendment to the 2019 budget proposal in five focus areas: 1. Nearly half of the funding needs, exactly 49 percent, HUF 2 billion 520 million are used to ensure the investment, renovation and tendering part of the buildings and buildings of the national authorities and the institutions they maintain. 2. In the case of national minority authorities and media, we propose an increase in operating grants of HUF 355 million in total and HUF 122 million in 10% in the case of institutions maintained by national governments. I noted here that there was no increase in support in 2018, either in national minority self-governments or in the institutions they maintained. It represents a third, very significant part of the support needs, around 30% of the 2019 second step of the national minority educator programme, which started in 2018, according to which the nationality bonus will be raised from 15 to 30 per cent, and we provide a specific framework for increasing the number and improvement of the quality of the education of national children's educators. This means a total of HUF 1 billion and HUF 530 million. [[9.40]] 4. We want to spend 8 percent of the needs, 405 million HUF for ethnic associations, organisations and schools, to further increase the ethnic tender framework. 5. We would like to increase the operating support of local ethnic authorities by 10%, which is altogether HUF 188 million. In yesterday's speech, I tried to explain and illustrate the detailed justification for the support needs of the national minority educator programme, the national minority application frameworks and local minority self-governments. In today's speech, I would first mention the operational support of national minority authorities and national minority media, and secondly the operational cost requirement of the institutions maintained by national minority authorities, and thirdly the increase in the part of the tender for investment and renovation aid for the construction and construction stock of the national minority authorities and the institutions they maintain. In the case of the operating costs of national minority self-governments and ethnic media, we propose a 20 percent increase in funding with the Association of National National Governments, which would increase the current HUF 1 billion to HUF 355.2 million to HUF 2 billion to HUF 131.3 million. As I have already mentioned, neither the national minority authorities nor the institutions they maintain received any increase in support in 2018. At present, the budgetary support of national minority authorities for the purpose of carrying out their public tasks includes the running costs of the national minority self-government, the running costs of the office of the national minority self-government, the support of county associations, the support of national minority civil society organisations, the support of national minority programmes and the support of ethnic media. Of the institutions, support for the operation of the office of the national minority self-government can only be provided from the central budget, given that they do not have their own revenue to carry out the task. Since 2017, the budgetary support of the national minority self-governments has remained unchanged, which have not followed the need for additional resources of the municipality, both in relation to its own operation and as an institution maintainer, as a result of the increase in tasks. Thus, among other things, the costs of wage and public burdens have increased significantly not only in the public sector but also in the operation of county associations and regional ethnic civil society organisations in connection with an otherwise welcome annual increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. This also rightly increases the support needs submitted to national minority self-governments. In the case of support for nationality media, an increase in labour costs also justifies an increase in the amount of support, in addition to the continuous requirement to maintain technical conditions. After the multi-annual length of the staff of the national self-government offices due to conflicting legal provisions, the public service relationship was fully assigned in 2018, while the reclassification resulted in a significant increase in the employer's burden of compulsory application of the civil servants' salary sheets, increased leave days, compulsory basic and professional exams. The entry into force of the GDPR Regulation also represents a significant additional expenditure at maintenance level, as institutions do not have the resources to do so. Compliance with this also requires IT improvements, which the institutions cannot manage from their tight operating framework. The economic administration has been creating a growing, significant additional burden for many years, which we also have to anticipate after rational economic reorganisations, and there is an additional demand for smaller and larger enterprises. The professional implementation of the works that can be carried out through a welcome increase in the investment and renovation funding framework also leads to additional tasks and costs in the field of operation. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law No 25, as amended, entered into force on 21 December 2017. Paragraph 6 requires that, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, movable and immovable property for the performance of the functions of the public education institution be transferred free of charge to the management of the recipient's property instead of free use so far, until the performance of the public education task by the recipient in that property is terminated. Following the conclusion of new trust contracts, the cost of insurance and insurance for public educational property and movable property maintained by the national authorities shall be borne by the maintainers and the self-governments of nationality. As all national ethnic authorities maintain several institutions, these costs alone amount to millions of dollars. Finally, I would also like to point out that it is considerably more difficult to provide staff with adequate professional qualifications in national minority authorities than non-national institutions and organisations, since, in addition to proper qualifications, it is a special requirement for employees to speak the language of their nationalities and, of course, it is a lucky situation if they belong to their nationalities. The provision of all these conditions is, in particular, a serious problem for minority nationalities and, of course, sufficient financial means are needed to resolve them. On the basis of what has been said, we respectfully ask for a 20% increase in the operating support of national minority self-governments and ethnic media in the 2019 Budget Act. Secondly, we are asking for a 10% increase in the operating support of the institutions maintained by the national minority authorities, i.e. the HUF 1 billion HUF 220.2 million funding of the institutions maintained by the 13 national minority self-governments to be increased by HUF 1 billion to HUF 342,2 million. In fact, the justification for increasing support for the reserved institutions could be repeated almost everything that I have already done for national minority self-governments, which I will, of course, overlook. The reason why we are asking for half the support of the reserved institutions, i.e. 10 percent, is because, on the one hand, for reasons of rationalization and cost reduction of their operation, the majority of national ethnic authorities have taken on more management and management tasks from the reserved institutions, on the other hand, the additional tasks related to the representation and management of a national minority and its costs are clearly incurred only by the national minority authorities, not by the individual institutions they hold. As a matter of long-term importance and importance, the investment and renovation project framework for the construction and construction stock of the national authorities and the institutions they maintain should be addressed as a key issue in the long term, which represents half of the national minority's budget needs in 2019. This should also be divided into two areas: on the one hand, the framework for public education and cultural institutions for building, construction investment and renovation, and on the other hand, the framework for building and construction investment and renovation of public education and cultural institutions maintained by local national authorities. In the case of national authorities 4 years ago, when we were allowed to be represented by Parliament, our first act was to open a new title order in the Central Budget Act 2015 to provide the investment and renovation funding. [[9.50]] This was of great strategic importance to us because the national authorities received the real estate they used and the majority of the properties of the institutions they reserved in the years following their election in 1994, in which the majority of them were already used. During the 25 years that passed, they knew with individual grants, with intergovernmental joint committee grants for some nationalities and ad hoc grants, mostly trying only partially to do the necessary investment and renovation work. However, in order to keep these properties in good condition in the long term, regular renovation is necessary, which can be predominantly financed only through central budget support, despite the fact that each national minority self-government is, of course, trying to make use of all the possibilities of support from the mother country, foundation grants, EU applications and the rest - with which it can complement the necessary resources. Secondly, and lastly, there should be a separate discussion of the investment and renewal part needs of public education and cultural institutions taken over by local ethnic authorities. After the election of the national authorities in 1994, there were short periods when it was possible, and some local ethnic authorities also took the opportunity as pioneers to take over the maintenance rights of public education or cultural institutions. However, it was institutionally possible from 2013 that local national authorities could take over the rights of the maintenance of the ethnic public education and cultural institutions from the local authorities and later from the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre. This opportunity has been used year after year by more and more local minority self-governments. As a result, we can now report that the total number of local minority self-governments in Croatia, Germany, Roma, Romania, Ruthenian and Slovak 49 now maintains 74 ethnic cultural and/or ethnic cultural institutions. As I have already mentioned in the operating costs of national minority self-governments, the amendment of the National Rights Act in December 2017 until tomorrow, these local minority self-governments are not only users of the real estate but also the right of trustee. By taking over the maintenance and trust rights of these institutions, the local minority self-governments have taken over the public service mission from the State and, as the local minority self-government does not have its own revenue, the State must provide the State with budgetary support for the investment and renovation of their institutions, as the State is obliged to provide the resources for the necessary investment and renovation work in the public education institutions left at Klebelsberg Institution Maintenance Centre. National and local national authorities have also taken over the responsibility for the long-term, high-quality operation of the institutions with the right of maintenance and trust, and in order to fulfil this public task, we ask for the provision of the investment and renewal funding framework necessary for the long-term operation of the institutions. We thank you very much for these long-term opportunities for the development of national, educational and cultural autonomy. I would like to inform you that, since 1 September 2018, in public education institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities, there have been nearly 6 thousand children of nationality and more than 12 thousand children, i.e. more than 18 thousand children and young people, are already receiving education in ethnic education in public education institutions maintained by local ethnic authorities. In view of the fact that not only 100 percent but also 75 percent of children receiving national minority education can be transferred to national minority institutions following the amendment of the National Rights Act in December 2017, it is estimated that by 2020, the number of young people receiving national minority education will exceed 20 thousand by 2020. In the long term, the investment and renovation tender component is used to provide the infrastructure which is essential for their long-term sustainable quality education. Mr President, Dear House, Finally, allow me to conclude my contribution to the central budget with a special request. I consider it to be the most important result of the last parliamentary term from a national point of view that we, the probie, no-voting national minority spokespersons in Parliament, have been able to achieve with consistent and fair work that all the factions of the Hungarian Parliament and all its representatives have voted unanimously on the daily political battles, except for the proposals submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. I respectfully ask you to make this practice of the Hungarian Parliament customary over the past four years and to follow it in the four years ahead. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, during the preparation and political and professional consultation of our amendments, we will do everything in our power to create and ensure the necessary preparation and conditions for this. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2018-06-29-22	Thank you, Mr Imre, German national representative, for your speech. I now give the floor to Secretary of State László György.
u2018-06-29-23	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. When we talk about the issues of quality of life, wages, deprivation in discussing the budget, we can always help with the facts, and we can easily correct these questions by referring to the facts. If we look at how net real earnings, i.e. our earnings on purchasing power statistics, the net earnings that workers may really feel in their pockets or in their bank accounts, if we look at a long time span, the net earnings increased by 28 percent between 1970 and 2010. Between 2010 and 2018 net earnings increased by 36 percent and 28 percent, including family tax incentives. If you look at the minimum wage, the minimum wage increased by 8 percent between 2002 and 2010 in real terms, and the purchasing power increased by 8 percent for the minimum wage and by 30 percent between 2010 and 2018. When you look at the income situation of a family with two children living at minimum wage, it has improved by 80 percent. This comment would apply to wages. If we look at the number of people living in deprivation, we see that between 2013 and 2017, the number of people living in severe material deprivation decreased by more than 1 million 300 thousand, according to Eurostat statistics, and today in Hungary there are 371 thousand fewer people living in severe material deprivation than in the best year ever, in 2007, before the crisis broke out. Of course, a needy one is just one more than we consider acceptable, but I would like to draw attention to these trends. In addition, in this context, the government debt increased by 30 percent between 2002 and 2010 and managed to increase the minimum wage by 8 percent in purchasing value in that period, whereas the government debt is now constantly falling, and 2019 will be the eighth year in a row when the magical Maastricht criterion, i.e. the 3-percent deficit, remains below the target of the Hungarian budget, the deficit of Hungarian public finances. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the twenty years preceding 2012 we managed to touch the Maastricht deficit target from above once, in 2000, at that time it was 3 percent, otherwise every other year the lack of the Hungarian budget was far above the Maastricht criteria. [[10.00]] What is still very welcome is that this wage, these wages, will reach significantly more Hungarian people today than in 2010. Since 2010, in eight years, Hungary's economic policy has overcome a very serious challenge of 15 years, namely that in 2010 we have seen one million fewer Hungarians working in their proportions than in the Czech economy, and this reflects our lag in relation to the region at the time. We set out to create a million jobs in ten years. Now, according to Eurostat and KSH statistics, there are at least 750 thousand more people registered in Hungary than in 2010, so we are on our way to achieving this goal, and more than 600 000 jobs have been created in the primary labour market. It is not only that the value of real wages has increased, that net wages have increased by 36 percent, but that wages will reach not 3 million 700 thousand people, but 4.5 million people, and 4.5 million people are working in Hungary today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a short break.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-06-29-24	Good afternoon. Thank you very much for your patience. We will continue our work, and we can listen to the speech of Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the European Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-25	Mr President, thank you for the floor. According to the basic figures of the budget bill, the EU development budget amounts to HUF 1359 billion. This is a serious amount, and it is important that we can count on it, and I must add that this is a crucial source of development in Hungary, and the share of this resource is two-thirds within the public investment. Unfortunately, this also means that the Hungarian economy cannot produce its own adequate resources for development. I would like to address three areas in this regard. One is how much the EU reduces the use of this amount, the second in this context is the government's economic policy, and finally, I would like to say, the effectiveness of its use. The European Union has its so-called priorities used in this way, plural - which it wants to enforce. This may coincide with important Hungarian national economy goals, but sometimes it differs, and the Union has its own coercive means, it is called the European Semester. We know that the European Union will adopt the convergence programme, the National Reform Programme of all its Member States, through a six-month process, which will both adapt to the pre-defined main directions and even bring forward country-specific recommendations. There are times when it wants to enforce very positive things, such as the circular economy, but it only determines what percentage of municipal solid waste is recycled by the Hungarian municipal authorities by 2030. You don't add a source, what do you do? It is mandatory: European Semester. I'll accept the reform plan if that's part of it. But to go further, the latest one is: the integration of migrants is a long-term task, so it requires that the budgets of each Member State have a serious amount for this. I trust that the government will stand by the migrant policy, in which Jobbik will support it, but it will fall away from that source. By government economy criticism, what do I mean? I would like to quote from Péter Róna, a criticism that not only applies to this government, and I would also like to quote the better economic policies, but I would like to quote Péter Róna:. The national distribution of income between capital and labour has shifted 5-6 percent over the past 20 years from the historical ratio of 35:65 to the benefit of capital. We are also part of the production chain of multinational companies: we pay low wages in low value added jobs, and our social policy is primarily shaped accordingly. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is a sad diagnosis, and most of the EU funds have gone to a large reinforced concrete infrastructure, and I should add that concrete, iron and metal have recently been the area where the most effective way to put EU public funds into private pockets. The right direction would have been to systematically support small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses providing quality jobs, helping them to carry out activities with significant added value, and this would enable wages to be caught up. How much this is a government strategy, let me quote Viktor Orbán, when he was with a large delegation in Saudi Arabia, providing economic relations and waiting for investors, he said literally: come to Hungary to invest, because in Hungary the workforce is very cheap in terms of its qualifications, and the labour code is very flexible. So, get over here, don't pay, work well, and take advantage of them. Unfortunately, it is the result of this economic policy, and let me quote here, because I can hear its dynamics about the change in incomes and salaries in a positive direction: according to Eurostat data, Hungary is 26 out of 28 Member States in per capita consumption with 63 percent of the EU average. We often like to compare to the Visegrad countries; and I am pleased to see on Parliament's website that Hungary has won the four Visegrád football tournament in Parliament, and unfortunately we are in the last place in terms of average incomes in 2017, so maybe we should change here. By "use efficiency," I mean "corruption." You could say it's everywhere and that the Soros bastards are attacking us to accuse us of that. The proportion of procurement awarded as a single candidate is very high, 36 percent, Hungary is in second place, and when international statistics come, they like to reject this, we are an under attack country. Let me quote the spiritual lunar courtyard of Fidesz, the Batthyány Circle of Professors:. It is particularly worrying if corruption seems to have become an established social practice, i.e. institutionalized, based on the methodology, structure and staff of individual sin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It has been noted that cohesion funds can be tied to certain basic values in the future. This would be difficult to accept, because they are very flexible in assessing this, but that is not the case, but only the rule of law conditions. What they understand here is the way in which the tendering agencies operate, whether the courts are independent, whether the prosecutor's office is involved in fraud related to such EU funds, this is the task to be carried out. The easiest way to do this is for Hungary to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as everyone in this region of the former socialist countries has done in Poland and in Hungary. Please prove that the money is being used cleanly, and then there's nothing to worry about. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-26	Thank you very much. This would be an opportunity for a two-minute speech, but since no one wants to take advantage of this opportunity, the representative of Fidesz, Mr László Vécsey, may speak. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In my speech, I would like to address the questions of the central administration concerning the budget, but first I would like to address what the President of the LMP said a little while ago I regret that he is no longer in the room. With the aggressive demagoguery with which he approached the local government and the local authorities, I believe he violated at least 3,000 of the 3200 municipalities. Mayors and bodies of representatives who do their work honestly and enthusiastically, he based the failure on it and gave examples of this by subpoenaing the municipalities of Budaörs and Gödöllő, as I understand it, literally saying that they are taking money from the successful ones, he quoted the head of one of the municipalities mentioned. Quashi, who is not the western gate of the capital, or where there is no largest baroque castle in Central Europe, is already a failure, and they do not deal with the fact that these bodies of representatives, these mayors, are doing their best to ensure that their settlements are successful and well-performing municipalities within the framework of opportunities. [[10.10]] To mix success with the fact that the characteristics of the municipalities are different, different from each other, this should not be done. By the way, every year in the budget, we try to mitigate, as far as possible, these differences arising from geopolitical conditions in different areas, whether we concern education or other economic issues, is absolutely natural, as our aim is to bring the possibilities of a Hungarian citizen living in a less-favoured settlement or small settlement closer to those which they receive in settlements with a better potential. So what LMP has said about funding, success, failure of municipalities, I would like to reject on behalf of at least three thousand municipalities. I know what I'm talking about. I came from the municipal world, this was my home for 20 years, this was my calling, of which I was mayor for 16 years. It's very, very offensive to hear the attitude we've heard from the LMP. I would then like to turn to questions concerning the central administration. Before 2010, we have often heard from representatives of the Socialist-Free Democratic Government that the state can only be a bad farmer. After the change of government, we thought that we would prove that the state could not only be a good farmer but also be a real provider. Recall that in public administration, as in other areas, we had to build a well-functioning system almost on the ground. By building and strengthening district and district government offices, rationalising administrative tasks and powers, we wanted to install administration as close as possible to citizens, in district and district offices. With the establishment of the metropolitan and county government offices in the government administration, we have now concentrated on appropriate expertise, while by resuscitating district offices and opening government windows, we have brought the public administration closer to the people. Let's just think that citizens meet the public administration every day, as the most frequently dealt cases include document matters such as driving licences, the exchange of driver's licenses, the issue of ID card, address notification, vehicle transcription, temporary withdrawal of a vehicle. So a major transformation had to be made to make the change noticeable to the people as well. Ladies and gentlemen, In my comment, I would like to focus on ensuring the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices, which are appropriations for the chapter justification of the draft law on the central budget for 2019 under Article XI of the Act. It is under the title of metropolitan, county government offices and district government offices. In the framework of the establishment of a good state, the National Assembly established the 2010 CXXVI in order to make the operation of the regional administration system more uniform and efficient, thereby increasing the development and expansion of the territorial administration of the state, as well as the implementation of the CXXVI. a law on the metropolitan and county government offices. In this context, the Government Decision No 1958 was adopted in December 2015 on the revision of central offices and central ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies, and the related decision on the rationalisation of powers in the context of the strengthening of government offices. That Government Decision provided for the restructuring of the central administration organisation, i.e. central budgetary bodies and ministerial background institutions to be abolished in the context of the transformation process. In June 2016, Government Decision No 1312 was adopted on measures to review central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies. A large part of the bodies concerned have ceased to be legal successors, one part of the termination of the organisations concerned has been achieved by merging into the managing ministry and the other part by merging or merging into another body. In addition, in many cases the performance of certain tasks has been taken over by bodies other than the general successor, and it should therefore be stated that their responsibilities have increased significantly. The establishment of government offices, the integration of administrative bodies, the establishment of district offices, the redistribution of powers and responsibilities are designed to ensure that the Hungarian administration meets the new types of challenges and principles. Thus, the resulting administrative structure provides a more cost-effective, more easily accessible, higher level of service. Dear House, This is how we got to today, to everyday life, so let me indicate that, in line with organizational developments, the government pays particular attention to the high quality of customer service. This is why the national government window network is being built and continuously expanded to this end. Government windows, which are partly national and partly based on EU funds, are also a Community space for administration that can provide information on all matters belonging to government offices, and even on matters that serve other sectors and social organisations. It is an interesting and striking fact that the number of clients and cases dealt with shows a dynamic rise in the years since the opening of government windows. The number of customers in 2011 was 233 315 nationwide, and in 2017 this number increased to 12 631 481 people, i.e. 54-fold. Let us also look at customer turnover, which in 2011 reported 339 681 cases, while in 2017 14 382 427 cases. That's how many cases were handled in 2017 in government windows. Dear Parliament, For commuting customers, the expansion of railway station services has so far been carried out in 11 locations, in the cities of Cegléd, Füzesabony, Kaposvár, Miskolc, Pécs, Nyíregyháza, Sopron, Szombathely and Vác. Although the development of customer service locations in railway court windows is the responsibility of the MÁV, furniture and IT tools should be provided by the Government Office, for which the Prime Minister's Office has provided domestic resources in several cases. According to my information, the development is ongoing in four other locations, which will result in the forthcoming opening of the government window at Békéscsaba, Érd, Győr and Székesfehérvár railway station. Dear House, In addition, a number of government windows have been opened in recent years at MÁK offices, state treasury offices and NAV customer services. The Hungarian Treasury customer service points are currently established in 18 locations, allowing customers to handle their sovereign debt transactions comfortably in the government window. The introduction of the service shows that it is an excellent opportunity to make certain non-official cases available at integrated government customer reception sites, i.e. government windows, to increase citizens' satisfaction. [[10.20]] In view of the fact that the Treasury operates in a separate IT system, we do not have any flow data, but on the basis of customer feedback it was positive to welcome the expansion of the range of services. Finally, when comparing with the 2018 budget, I would like to note the following. Compared to the figures, it is clear that serious wage developments have taken place in previous years and that this trend will continue in 2019 as a result of a modern 21st century. The public administration of the century is outlined in Hungary, as we can talk about an increase of HUF 11 billion in personal benefits. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to adopt the draft budget for 2019 and, when it comes to that, to vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, may speak. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, too, I had the opportunity and opportunity to comment on the central budget for 2019, then I was talking about situations of general concern to local governments, and I would like to ask you to allow me to continue today to talk about the problems and concerns of the Siófok-based Somogy 4 constituency. When we go through the Somogy landscape, we certainly do realize that the structure of that structure is a small village system, which has a completely different problem than the big cities, and especially in Budapest. In this constituency, only 5 out of the 71 settlements are cities, and each of the 81,000 inhabitants deserves the same amount from the central budget, since they must be considered equal, and because of the peculiarity of the settlement structure they have very, very many sack settlements. When I visited these sack settlements several times during the campaign, not one mayor indicated that only one or two kilometres of road were missing in order to dissolve the character of the sack settlement. And all of them unitedly complained that the exodus, the depopulation, was severely affecting his settlement. I ask why the settlement structure that had developed over hundreds of years could not change, why these settlements could not be helped. If these access roads are able to prepare not to build a highway, it is enough to have a road on which a car can easily travel - this situation will be dissolved. Let me highlight a settlement, because this is particularly horrifying, and this is the case of Torvaj, which is located next to Tab. The children there have to travel around for about 20 minutes because they cannot pass this two - mile [two km] stretch of road at Tab, and then they would not have to travel back and forth for 20 minutes, but much, much shorter time. So I hope that in the coming years there will also be a budgetary resource for these development directions, because this will prevent the total depopulation of sack settlements. And then let's talk more about these small settlements, the settlements under 500, but not in one case under 200. When we say what the average earnings are and the goal is full employment, which was said yesterday, the unemployment rate of 3 per cent is also considered to be full employment, now there is no job in these settlements. And it has already been said today in the debate, the Secretary of State said that the government is calculating a surplus of 60 billion dollars in business tax revenue. In particular, there is no business tax revenue in these municipalities. There are no businesses. If there are, they only produce a minimum of a few hundred or even a million forints of business tax revenue. Well, they can't be improved. You can't build sidewalks and roads out of these. That is why I have also tabled legislative proposals for settlements that have been honoured by asking me to submit them, and I trust that the pro-government representatives will also support these proposals. Because when we talk about how little money people make in these small settlements, this is today's Hungarian reality. When the aunt complains that the store is closed here, there are no opportunities here, and I hear the mobile shopkeeper ringing, where in one case 20-30 or even 50 percent more of the basic food cost is the same as what is available in the city, so how can we ensure that Hungarian people live equally here? Everyone has the right to do so, I think. When we talk about small settlements, it is important to mention that, in view of the small settlements and sack settlements of Lake Balaton, the possibility of close proximity to Lake Balaton does not always come back to the storehouses near Lake Balaton. Obviously, when applications can be submitted to the Ministry of Interior by small settlements, they also examine the tax capacity, and if there is a settlement in the given district with a higher tax power, it does not start with the same conditions in these tenders. And speaking of Balaton: I was very happy to read in the 2019 budget that this year HUF 220 billion is dedicated to supporting the development of Balaton, which is also included in the 2018 budget, including HUF 170 million, which is for accumulation purposes. I respectfully ask that there should be spectacular elements. There is a need for attractions on the shore of Lake Balaton, and I share opinions when they say that the attraction of the northern coast is the southern coast, and the attraction of the southern coast is the northern coast. We have to think of the tourist destination in Balaton together, but improvements are needed, and this will be covered not only in . 18, but fortunately also in 2019. I trust that these improvements can be realised, and this will bring about very important improvements for both the settlements, the residents and the visitors to our country. Next, I would like to draw attention to one more thing about local governments: do not leave them alone. During the three-day debate, it was said several times that the municipalities would receive those funds, be able to apply for them and make further improvements. But do not let them go, give them additional resources so that the Hungarian people and the Hungarian population can feel better in Hungary and do not want to leave, do not want to move abroad with their family, but live and thrive here, in our country! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Szabó, will now speak. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Members of Representations. As we have been getting used to in recent years, this year the government presented the draft budget for the next year to us during the spring session and provided it to us on the subject of discussion. Since 2013, we have been talking about an improved and stable economic budget, and we can now say that we are not discussing what kind of tax should be increased, whether the budget should be stable or whether the revenue is being met or not, but which element should be raised on the expenditure side and where more money is needed. I believe that we are talking unfairly little about what this stable budget is due to, and I would like to say a few things about it. This question has two legs. One is that, as a result of the stabilisation of the economy, the performance of the performance force is increasing, therefore the revenue side of the budget is constantly increasing. However, in order to realise these revenues, the government has taken a lot of steps, and I would perhaps like to highlight these factors in this respect, which means the realization of tax revenues and the achievement of tax revenues. This is good for the central budget, good for the country, good for the government and good for the taxpayers, because decent taxpayers do not have to pay these revenues or these money instead of non-taxers. With some specific examples, if I may, let me live and mention them again. From 1 July 2018, a new online billing system will be introduced to keep track of black billing and VAT abuse. We will see more than one hundred thousand forints of invoices, constantly moving, so that everyone can comply with the tax liability behind the real economic movements. Another topic, which was earlier, is the possibility of online tax authority control of the issue of receipts by cash registers as of 1 September 2014. [[10.30]] As a result of this, the stability of trade has not been proven any better, on the one hand, the tax revenues have increased in terms of VAT, but it is perhaps even more important that the retail businesses that have carried out their activities showing false stocks as a result of non-refunding expenditure have ceased to exist. A competitive, economically functioning trading system could be established. Let us not forget the electronic road traffic control system. We all remember the transactions where goods entered from outside the European Union were shipped to a port in the European Union and entered free flowed within Europe, and suddenly there were packages of products and goods that were placed on the market at an incredibly cheap price, even reduced by general sales tax and customs, thereby hindering Hungarian trade in Hungary, creating an inappropriate competitive situation. As a result of this information, the NAV now sees these movements clearly. It is very important to introduce a monthly VAT declaration obligation for 2015 in order to detect fictitious company formations. As a result, new companies must make VAT returns not once a year or even quarterly, but more frequently. Companies that have been created for the purpose of VAT abuse can first be excluded. Let us not forget that, as a result of the integration of the tax and customs authorities, a single information system has been established, where customer identification is much easier, much more transparent and manageable. If I may, I would like to include the introduction of reverse VAT in the cereals sector, as from 1 July 2012 for consignments of cereals floated on the Danube, in order to reduce VAT fraud, but from 1 January 2015 the same treatment of services that can be considered as temporary agency services can be included. We all remember the transaction in Szombathely that we were able to shed light on with the help of this system. And tax reduction issues, because there are and have been tax reduction factors not only in terms of contributions and income taxes, but also in terms of sales tax: as of 1 January 2014, live and half-carcases, in 2015 large animals, cattle, sheep, goats and their processed products, as of 1 January 2016, pig meat, eggs, poultry, fish in 2018, and do not forget to extend the VAT reduction from 27 to 5 percent from next year. How clean the systems are: the proportion of imported products that were often placed on the shelves free of VAT has suddenly decreased, and in competition they were definitely winners of Hungarian products. I think that all of these government measures have contributed to making the system of tax collection much more effective, and this has led to more resources for development, for local governments, for education and for health. These numbers all speak for themselves and are visible. Let me just say one song in closing. About 10 years ago, in 2006-2007, the most careful estimates said that the loss of tax revenue, which comes from the grey and black economy, amounts to 7 percent of Hungarian GDP. Today, economic operators also acknowledge that it is much better to think and work in a transparent way with clean farming, a clean economy. I believe, fellow Members, that in the last 8 years this direction, which has developed in the Hungarian budget, is the basis for the Hungarian budget to be acceptable, eligible and can be further strengthened in the future. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal both in the detailed debate and in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-32	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In relation to the planning numbers of the budget proposal, there have been conflicting professional opinions due to its inherent risk, which is why its merits are highly questionable. While the Ministry of Finance plans with 2.7 percent inflation, the Hungarian National Bank would require a 3.1 percent adjustment of 100 billion in itself from the government. On the other hand, economic growth is expected to be much lower by the central bank, which assumes a further loss due to the loss of tax revenues. It is striking that the Fiscal Council has also raised concerns about growth forecasts. It is important to note that the budget is estimated at 311 HUF, whereas the euro exchange rate is currently around 328 HUF. The Ministry of Finance will not meet 1.5 percent of the structural deficit next year, which means that the public financial regulation that has been ignored for years will be again damaged at a time when, according to the government, we are facing another crisis. It can also be seen that the current budget for 2018 approved a debt-to-GDP ratio of 69,5 per cent, while the 2019 proposal concludes that, despite the 0.8 percentage point increase, the government debt is falling, and therefore does not comply with the legal requirements. In summary, without knowing the numbers of the closing accounts, the figures of the budget proposal are unfounded, even according to the Hungarian National Bank. But not only in terms of planning, but also in terms of content, this proposal is not acceptable. In this way, the 2019 budget is anti-future, since the future education budget contains not even an increase in inflation, it cannot solve the systemic health problems, and the proportion of welfare expenditure is far below the level before 2010. As an individual elected representative in Budapest, it is particularly important to me what opportunities the budget provides for the capital. It is important to point out that in the area of development in the capital, the budget contains only stadium developments, so public transport in Budapest and agglomeration will remain underfunded, with the low level of criticism of the HÉV lines at the limit of their functionality, the metropolitan railway stations and railway stations. It can also be seen that the housing crisis has been exacerbated by the Ministry of Finance by simply levitating the retention of the reduced VAT rate, and by the government still not launching a rental-building programme at the running-off rental prices. For this reason, our faction has presented an amending package for the budget, including for Budapest, in which we propose solutions to the most pressing problems. Let's see what the most important tasks are. The Chain Bridge, a symbol of Budapest, and the associated tunnel, are in critical condition, but the Municipality of Budapest has no money for the simultaneous renovation of both. Without government involvement, the capital can only make the two investments one by one, which means that the transport of the Chain Bridge and its surroundings, i.e. the transport of the innermost part of Buda, is impossible for at least 4 years. However, the simultaneous renovation of the bridge and tunnel would significantly shorten the closure times. After all, everyone knows that the bridge and the tunnel must be renovated at the same time, because this entails as little difficulty as possible, closure, restrictions on traffic in the area. The additional HUF 5 billion needed to carry out the two investments at the same time is only 2 percent of the amount needed to move to the Prime Minister's Office Castle. Not to mention that since 2010 he has been on the Fidesz government, no bridges have been renovated in Budapest. In the period since 2010, summer has almost not passed without closing certain sections of the main road tram line. Instead of real and complete renovation, firefighting takes place year after year, so that BKV can ensure traffic on one of Europe's and the world's largest traffic lines, but transport can still only be ensured with continuous restrictions, increasing driving time. The partial renovation year-on-year is not enough, it is unworthy of Budapest and it is also wasteful in the longer term. [[10.40]] The complete, detailed renovation of the line requires approximately HUF 20 billion, which is the one-day tax payment of Budapesters. Full renovations are also cheaper in the medium and long term than every two years hacking the tracks that were recently laid. There can be no question that Budapesters have the right to receive their only daily tax payment once every ten years, so that they can normally travel safely on large road trams. There is a housing crisis in Hungary, which is particularly serious for Budapest. In the capital, not only homelessness, but also runaway housing and rent prices are an unmanageable problem. Today, an ordinary family cannot afford to rent an apartment or room for their college child. The housing crisis in Budapest can only be dealt with by building municipal apartments, renovating existing apartments owned by the municipalities, and establishing a uniform and transparent system of rent support. To launch this process, we need HUF 30 billion in 2019, without which the government can really ban homelessness, but not eliminate it. Everyone has the right to an orderly public area, but everyone should also have the right to have a roof over his head. Nowadays, losing one's home has almost no chance of recreating the conditions for his housing. The housing crisis is also a crisis of the quality of housing in the capital. Even though the panel program helped hundreds of thousands of families before 2010, Fidesz stopped it. The panel programme needs to be re-launched, as still many people live in panels houses whose quality is deteriorating year after year. But it's also true of traditional downtown rentals. Among these, there are many whose facade is still depraved by World War II shots, but also one that has not been touched in practically a hundred years. This is unsustainable, so applications must be launched for people living in both traditional housing houses and panels so that they can renovate their often particularly unhealthy homes. It is very important to emphasise that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure the right to housing. When the Fundamental Law was amended, this should also have been taken into account. The task is for the state, but knowledge is for the municipalities, because local problems are seen locally, they know best. That is why the state must leave more resources in place so that the municipalities can deal with this long-lost crisis. There is no other option: it is urgent to start building apartments and renovating apartments and properties owned by municipalities, but currently in uninhabitable condition. This is the task of the municipalities, but without government and state involvement, local communities have no chance of doing so. If the government does not want the housing crisis to deepen further, it will help those municipalities, either the capital or the district, who can and want to do something about the unblessed conditions. If, on the other hand, the government does not help local governments, then it can only ban homelessness, certainly not eliminate it. Budgetary amendments were submitted because of Budapest's vulnerability. Even though Budapesters pay HUF 20 billion to the state register every day, despite the production of 40 percent of Hungarian GDP by the capital, the government can see that the capital can't move without the government's charity. However, Budapesters do not need charity donations, but they need a worthy, predictable future and development. Our amendment proposal against the government's anti-Budapest anti-refund policy ensures that the necessary improvements are covered, and the renovations that the metropolitan people have been expecting for years in vain. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-29-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gábor Sombor, Fidesz representative. Here.
u2018-06-29-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the debate, the funding of municipalities, the relationship between rich municipalities and poorer municipalities was quite central, and allow me to say a few words as mayor of a small settlement that belongs to the first category. After all, we have clearly accepted the fact in Kecskemét that public services must be created and maintained in small settlements, the financing of them must be ensured, and even if this is done from business tax, this must be done. However, it would not be good for this debate or thinking to go in a direction where we pour out the child along with the bath water. After all, settlements with a high economic potential must be added that they have much more specific and much more costly costs, since both in terms of public transport, education and special vocational training, there are much greater challenges in terms of infrastructure investments, so that they can meet the conditions that involve, say, the relocation and operation of a large factory, or the plant serving it. That is why I think it is important that, yes, this system of solidarity must be maintained, but solutions must be found to help settlements that can continue to manage GDP-enhancing investments. And here I am linked to the budget, because we see that the government and the municipalities, the municipalities of the county-righted cities, have found a way of meeting both principles, because within the framework of the programme, if we talk only about our own settlement, we have received 100 billion forints of funds, and because the budget continues with the programme "Modern cities" - which contains goals and ways to implement them in detail with the government. So here, Congressman Barcza said that the municipalities were looking for all kinds of things they shouldn't have. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] What? I'm talking now. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention:]] We're talking about the budget.
u2018-06-29-36	Go on, Congressman, take your time.
u2018-06-29-37	Thank you very much. Therefore, the programme "Modern Cities" provides us with resources that can form a basis for developing local businesses to finance further development. And with regard to infrastructure, we have been encouraged and promised similar opportunities, and we see that in the budget this will be achieved. So I only highlighted the importance of this because such a difficult tension can be lifted by the development of different types of settlements in an agreed and reasonable manner. And with the launch of a program of modern villages, with high hopes for even the settlements nearby, it can mean that a lasting solution can be found for these types of challenges. After the local government, let me say a few words about health, because, in addition to the budget for security and growth, there is a clear intention that the trend towards increasing the amount of money that could be spent in health will continue to increase by over 100 billion. I trust him, and I am sure that the wage correction, wage-raising trends that have started in recent years, the modernisations will be covered by both Budapest and the new technologies, so that real improvements can be seen in this area. So I propose that everyone support this budget, and we ask the government to consider, in the long term, what opportunities can be found to maintain future development in such a targeted way, like the "Modern Cities" programme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.50]]
u2018-06-29-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. A representative of the LMP, Congressman Csárdi, may speak. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are almost over the general debate on next year's budget, and in the last three days, we have all been able to say what we think about the directions and plans outlined by the government. Every year, the budget sets out the directions, the priorities along which a government imagines the country's development path. Ideally, it plans not only for the next year, but also for the longer term, and even in luckier cases it seeks to have a national consensus in the most important directions. Unfortunately, Fidesz hasn't submitted such a budget in years, and the proposal we are now proposing is not like this. The biggest mistake and sin of this budget proposal is that it does not reduce social differences, nor does it create the opportunity to reduce these social differences, does not prepare Hungary for the challenges of the future, and unfortunately it is not sustainable to a minimal extent from what I think is rightfully expected by XXI. Citizen of the century. However, there is greater uncertainty compared to previous years, since after relatively calm years, the world economy is once again under threat of crisis. In about two weeks since the submission of the budget, the forint has weakened significantly, it has sunk to a historic low point against the euro, even on the day of its submission it was highly questionable why the budget is counting on such a strong euro/forint exchange rate. The budget ahead may have to be rewritten very significantly, changed, because if the crisis comes, Hungary will not be in good shape. For this reason, it would be very important if next year's budget were to prepare for the crisis not only by raising the reserve with a signal, but also by strengthening the most vulnerable social groups without delay and launching a correction for economic aid. First of all, I think that one of the biggest mistakes on this issue is the housing situation. During the crisis ten years ago, hundreds of thousands of families were trapped in debt traps, tens of thousands lost their homes, and even though the Fidesz government has promised on numerous occasions since 2010, many still do not have their housing loans settled. For countless Hungarian families, this euro/forint exchange rate over 320 is a terrible memory, and I think that the government is still rolling this debt ahead of you, and it would be very timely for you to keep your own promise. The best recipe against debt in foreign currency loans is a well-functioning public home creation program. The CSOK as an initiative can therefore be called a good one, but the implementation has been quite eroded, because not only families with three children and rich families want their own home. In their own home, families who are not wealthy and have fewer than three children have to have access to this. And let's be honest: family formation, demographic governance starts with access to the first apartment. For this reason, the State should finance a CSOK that is accessible to all and in which families in need benefit. Another important instrument of the housing crisis would be the housing programme. There is no mention of this in this budget, even though I remember as a municipal representative that we decided ten years ago on social housing requirements in 2014, and since then the situation has deteriorated a lot. Apart from housing, it is the question of VAT that we cannot go without saying, because I think that there is a great deal that the government, Parliament, can do here to ensure that those in need who cannot afford basic food today can either obtain it or get it cheaper. Today, the value of wages is extremely weak. A recent OECD report shows that despite the government's ad hoc wage increase, compared to purchasing power parities, Hungarian average wages are at the end of the line in a European comparison. The wage crisis must be eliminated without delay and must be accompanied by a reduction in the VAT on basic foods. I think that no government can afford it, and no government that calls itself a national cannot afford to let citizens of poorer fate go, not support them, not help them. And this budget doesn't help them. This budget is a continuation of what the Fidesz has been doing for many years, to support the upper middle class and the richer, and to leave the poorer and the poor to their fate. I think that every citizen in Hungary today rightly expects that he should not have any problems with fresh vegetables, fresh fruit, access to bakery goods, nor should it be a financial question whether someone can put healthy food on his family's table. I think that if you think a little bit about it and take me away from the fact that I am an LMP politician and you are fidesz politicians, I don't think there should be a debate between us on this issue. The third issue that should be discussed in this budget is that economic policy priorities should be shifted towards sustainability. Car manufacturers and assembly plants are the most vulnerable sector in Hungary today, and when the crisis comes, we know precisely that the economic performance of automotive related industries will first decrease. I do not have a problem with these industries, but I say very strongly that we cannot allow the Hungarian economy to stand on such a level playing field. We need high added value jobs, we need to support their arrival, and I think that this could be a solution to the standard of living of thousands and tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands. The LMP itself has submitted more than 200 amendments to the budget, and we are still in a position to decide on their fate, so that we can move Hungary in a more sustainable direction. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-29-40	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett Vesz, an independent representative.
u2018-06-29-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate on the budget, there is a strong emphasis on the allocations for education. I myself have tabled a budget amendment in order to ensure that the education system operates in accordance with the minimum education signed by all parties to the Democratic opposition. This requires, but is not sufficient, that the annual envelope for the education system reaches 6 per cent of GDP. A well-functioning education system is decentralised. In order for schools to fall into the hands of local communities, i.e. the school will be returned to those to whom it belongs, the administrative law will also have to be amended. In the idea of liberals, the obligation to finance would remain with the State, while the maintenance and operators of schools would be the municipalities. Local governments of smaller municipalities could exercise their institutional maintenance rights through the creation of voluntary partnerships, taking into account district boundaries. We imagine normative support in the funding of schools, which could be used up to a factor of up to one and a half in the case of municipalities underfunded without their own fault. [[11.00]] Giving poorer settlements greater support would provide a basis for equal opportunities. This regulation would break down the anomalies of the centralised system by eliminating errors that occurred before 2010. Although there has been no progress in the violently centralised system for years, this legislative amendment proposal of the Liberals failed in the previous term in committee work, it was not included in the series of subjects, it could not be discussed by the Parliament. However, with the Hungarian Liberal Party, we will not give up, we will re-submit this legislative amendment proposal, which aims to decentralize the education system, because we believe that local communities can find the best answers to local challenges. It is the same for investment in urban development as for investments aimed at our future, i.e. the present schoolchildren and present schools. Thank you so much for listening. [[Antal Csárdi and Sándor Szabó applaud.]]
u2018-06-29-42	Two-minute speeches, Your Honour. First, Tamás Bellozó, MSZP.
u2018-06-29-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very sorry that the Secretary of State for Home Affairs is not here; I saw that he was here, but he is not in the room now, and I would like to ask very specific questions. It can be said with great certainty that the Ministry of Interior is indeed one of the biggest winners of the budgetary changes in recent years, so if we are fair, we do not accuse them of that, but I would definitely like to ask them three specific questions. One is the issue of overtime, over-service, which has reached amazing proportions last year. In six months, the government has paid HUF 11.1 billion in overservices, while next year's budget is set to HUF 2.7 billion in total. Anyone who has read Hst., the law on the service relationship, knows that by the end of the year, the over-service will be carried out. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that about 10 million hours of overtime have been created in a year last year, and next year there will be no such institution. I would be very curious to hear from the Ministry of the Interior about what they can do with this and what the stock knows about it, and how they will solve this problem. At the hearing of your new chief of police before your appointment, you literally said, I quote, that four times as many police officers should not have overtime in Hungary, which will cease to exist on 31 December, and there is no funding in the budget for this. My second question is that the 25 billion forints of anti-terrorist measures serve the purpose of using the information collected as efficiently as possible, among other things, whether we would know how the information collected for HUF 25 000 million will be used more efficiently, by purchasing secret service, listening devices, by IT development, and possibly by human development. If we could hear anything about that, that would be great. The third, most important question will be asked in the next two-minute round, in case the Secretary of State comes along. Thank you for listening.
u2018-06-29-44	Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2018-06-29-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been mentioned several times in the budgetary debate, but I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a problem in the constituency of Sopron, which most people think is a highly developed region of the country, so the situation on the roads should not be a problem. Well, I respectfully report that when I was talking to one of your mayors in this constituency, and I asked him when he was fully renovated on the road to the settlement, and he asked me what my guess was, I said, 1975. By the time he looked at me, he said that Mr. Brenner, Jesus Mary, how do you know this happened in 1973. I know that there is constant renovation of roads in this region, especially with EU funds. I would just like to pay tribute to my fellow Members to the fact that the road to smaller settlements is simply ridiculous. I would also like to recommend your study of the Hungarian Road to your attention. This is where I personally tabled amendments. The second point, which I would like to mention briefly, is a budget transfer of 70 billion to the new Ministry of Innovation concerning the situation of scientific research. As I have already explained here on several occasions, Jobbik is extremely concerned about this and has made use of amendments accordingly. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that it is not only 28 billion forints of academic research institutions, but also 29 billion forints for university research and development are transferred to the Ministry, and we do not know anything about the 13 billion forints for basic research. This is of great concern to the development of Hungarian scientific research, which should otherwise be in universities, but this is a specific problem of the education and higher education budgets. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-29-46	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2018-06-29-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Here the debate over the last few days is slowly coming to an end. During this period, we have established, at least on the opposition side, that it is rather a budget of unpredictableness, uncertainty, which you have brought here, and have argued accordingly. But today is a strange thing, because my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, has drawn attention from your benches to the fact that, indeed, there are certain uncertainties here that cannot be ignored. This includes that inflation, yes, may be higher than what you have anticipated. That is why, while Mr Secretary of State, on a professional basis and I really appreciate the efforts to protect everything that has been put forward, but in itself, it is indefensible, because the rules that you have made towards your allies, towards the European Union, are not being complied with, nor were you going to comply in 2017, this year will not be complied with, and next year will not be planned that way. Compared to this, it is important to point out that they do not comply with their own rules, because if inflation here, on the basis of the figures quoted from my fellow Member, can exceed 3 per cent, then you must draw it up and redesign it under the Stability Act. Meanwhile, hundreds of Members of Members are submitting a number of amendments, and otherwise this is actually pointless. This shows how pointless their spring budget adoption rush is, and it is no coincidence that all the experts are saying that this is not good. I continue to say to withdraw and present a new budget in the fall. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2018-06-29-48	Thank you very much. Congressman György Czerván, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2018-06-29-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We don't plan to withdraw the budget, the government doesn't plan it, because it's a secure budget. Allow me to respond here to the opposition's opposition to the general turnover tax on basic foodstuffs. I would like to inform you that the focus of the government's tax philosophy is to reduce the burden of living work, because, among other things, we can achieve full employment in the budget through this, and this tax philosophy is why the unemployment rate of up to 12 per cent in 2010 is now below 4 per cent. Of course, the budget also needs revenue. We want to provide revenue from the tax side, consumption and traffic types taxes. In this sense, VAT on basic foods is an exception. But I would like to inform you that, step by step, as the budgetary margin allows, and thank God, it still allows, and the government's work, we are going on this path, which we started in 2014, when we reduced the overall sales tax of live and half pigs to 5%, and then reduced sales taxes of live and slaughtered cattle, sheep and goats. These were intermediate products and did not reach the final consumer. In this sense, a breakthrough occurred in 2016, when the price of the final product was already reached by reducing the sales tax on pig meat. This was continued in 17 by reducing the VAT on poultry, eggs and fresh milk, and this year by reducing the VAT on fish and pig offal. In the budget before us, we will reduce the overall turnover tax on preserved milk, and we will continue on this path, as the country's economic situation, the budget space will allow. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-29-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Group of Dialogue will resign in the debate for the benefit of the MSZP Group for a further 17 minutes. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. [[11.10]] We will now continue with and continue with the speakers announced in advance. I ask for the understanding of Congressman Hoppál, because Secretary of State Károly Kontra has asked for the floor on behalf of the Government, and in this case he has priority in accordance with the house rules. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-51	Thank you for the patience of the Member and the House. Very briefly, I would like to respond to Mr Bellozó's comment. I would like to point out, first of all, that, as I said earlier today, this budget is a budget for security, for the security of Hungarian people, its main objective is to ensure the security of Hungary and the security of Hungarian people, and the necessary resources are available in this budget. As regards the issue of overwork, the aim of the government, the Ministry of Interior and the police is to reduce the overwork in 2019 to the minimum by bringing 3000 border fighters into service. We will ensure the conditions of this in the budget, because earlier it was necessary to impose this overwork to ensure the protection of Hungary, the protection of the southern border, and the protection of the Schengen border. On the other hand, as regards the issue of HUF 25.1 billion planned for the expenditure related to the implementation of anti-terrorist measures, I do not want to give you any information in public. The point is that this is necessary so that the Counter-Terrorism Centre can carry out the tasks necessary for counter-terrorism tasks, prevention and other tasks, so it will provide adequate resources for this. I would not like to say any details here at the public meeting about this. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-29-52	Thank you very much. Here's the speech by Congressman Peter Hoppál, Fidesz.
u2018-06-29-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond briefly to certain statements in the last round of speakers before I speak in advance. Perhaps first of all, the situation of the little comic that the Dialogue faction has just given the rest of its time to the MSZP fraction. This is the Dialogue faction, so record in the minutes where the folk tales were, where there were no groups belonging to the category. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: And the KDNP? Like KDNP!]] Sometimes there is, sometimes there isn't, and now I see that they don't really care about the budget debate, because in the last three days, we haven't seen the presence of the Dialogue faction. This is particularly unpleasant, too, because the Member elected from the two constituencies in Pécs is an economist professor, Tamás Mellár, who seems not to be interested in the debate on the budget and does not participate in this work. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention.]] It hurts to miss and avoid work in his case, but the Pécs will take care of it. One more important question, Mr Csaba Tóth, who is not here now, but in the previous round he raised a ball that we should not hit. He believed that the government was anti-Budapest. On behalf of the Government of Hungary and the Fidesz-KDNP community of the majority governor [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention.]] refuse to make that statement, Congressman. I think that the anti-Budapest situation concerns the period of left-wing governance before 2010, so if you were sweeping around your own house, you would find problems in this regard. And here we are in the era of the upward development of Budapest and Hungarian self-governments. [[Uproar and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Those who have cataracts on their eyes or consciously misinterpret what is happening are those who have destroyed the local governments and destroyed the country. This is a period of left-wing governance when you were in power before 2010. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Did you just talk about Pécs?]] With regard to the current budget, the constant manifestations of State Secretary Péter Banai Benő confirm that the current budget is exactly in the same direction as the post-2010 budgets. So we're moving on to another step of a converging work. I would like to remind my fellow Members of the opposition, who are now making noise, that in their period the Holy Grail was austerity, they have always gone back to austerity, and they have completely destroyed the Hungarian budget, they have put Hungarian households, Hungarian people, local governments and public finances on the brink of bankruptcy by 2010. On the other hand, the current budget will fit into the policy of the last eight years if stability and tax reduction are reflected in the background of growth. This can be read from the 2019 budget. This is called a Hungarian model in countries outside of us, honourable Members. [[Uproar, clarity, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Pécsi model!]] what civil governance after 2010 has achieved. This is the Hungarian model, which works and is effective, as opposed to your period of governance. Growth was set at 4.1 percent by the government. We can see that this is well-founded, because already the first quarter data showed a 4-percent increase, so it is safe to have its foundation and careful planning. I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the lack of public finances. The 1.8 percent deficit target gains its meaning on an ever - decreasing track. In pre-2010 governance, when my now loud fellow Members were ruling, they could never meet an interesting 3-percent public deficit according to the criteria of the European Union and Maastricht criteria. That's all you know. In the certificate, one, insufficient, that's what you've been issued. As loud as they are, the last time they got a big one in their index on April 8th, they don't accept that. [[Dr. László Varga's constant interventions.]] You are communicating, talking about such a high horse here in Parliament, as if you had shown an era when Hungary or the Hungarian economy prospered. You've ruined everything you can do. What was not cemented, was pawned, and the Hungarian future was almost, almost bankrupt. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. László Varga: Shame on you!]] So you should be the most modest person here, not the loud one, because it doesn't justify any of your work in recent years. In addition to the deficit target, I would like to highlight the continuing decline in government debt, which has shown over 80% in your era, and now it has fallen to 70 percent in 2017, and by the end of the cycle, Fidesz governments will again see a miracle to ensure that there is a government deficit and a government debt ratio below 60 percent in Hungary. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It's a good thing you're laughing, Congressman Bellozó, because if you look at the history of the last few cycles while you've been ruling, the lack of public finances and the level of public debt have skyrocketed. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention.]] As long as the Fidesz steers, he always cleans up after you, that's what's gonna happen. I am particularly pleased that in the line of municipalities, indeed, if you have already mentioned the city of Pécs, then with the help of the state and the government, Pécs has all the inheritance that you have left there, showing a picture of a functioning city and moving out of the bankruptcies in which you left the city of Pécs. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention. Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And Pécs and Komló prosper, come and see and weep for your negative performance. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in the debate will renounce its further 30-minute timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. [[Defiance and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. We now have the floor from Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Much has been said here in the three-day debate about the budget. I would like to cut the general introduction short and talk about my constituency and one or two policy issues. What I cannot help is that I do not bring it up, though it has been said many times, when our fellow Members have spoken about the slapping of the budget and how beautifully it is written, why it is not possible to write in it the basic principle of, say, how much the expenditure was in a row last year or how much it will be this year, or at least how much it is planned if we do not see the facts. It's an international standard, and that's how your budgets were made, by the way. In fact, there are two budgets to be looked at continuously; Mr Secretary of State may also reply as to why it was not written in, as it used to be, and also after 2010, how much of the previous years have been spent. I understand that this makes it harder to compare and easier to hide certain numbers, or to make an overview difficult for the opposition or even for citizens, but it is not elegant or professional. Orbán said in his speech that it is not possible to say that the growth and prosperity of the Hungarian economy depends on EU funds, since Hungary has a GDP of 114 billion in euro, and the EUR 4 billion that comes into Hungary is a negligible amount. Perhaps I quote the Prime Minister precisely, that's what he was talking about. [[11.20]] If the calculation is done by intersecting a calculator, the amount that comes into Hungary is a 3.5 percent increase. So if that didn't work out, then the Hungarian economy would stagnate, and the economists would say so - that when 1 percent of GDP, 2 percent, 3 percent, it doesn't matter, but a certain amount of support works, it has a multiplier effect. If it were spent in the right place, GDP would not only have to be increased by the nominal amount of GDP, but by much more. It also shows that, with the efficiency of spending EU money, the government remains seriously indebted and does not appear as a real economic stimulus, just to bring out the situation of the economy in a positive way. Not to mention our deposits are significant. So here, you're gonna have to pull the real scale. Then I would like to turn to the policy issues that we are constantly presenting every year. For example, we would like to make sure that a compensation fund is set up in the budget to compensate victims of crime. We would imagine this in such a way that, in cases where compensation is awarded to the victim or his surviving family and there is no recoverable property for the perpetrator, it is possible to apply for this fund as a quasi-subsidised basis and to provide at least one top-closed basis for the possibility of satisfying these needs. This would be set at HUF 1 billion. It could be used more, but it would also help victims of crime. Then it would be necessary, and I also suggested, by HUF 60 million, to support a legal assistance service in the Carpathian Basin, which would indeed effectively deal with the grievances of Hungarians across the border. But it is not the first time that we are proposing to raise the judicial salary, which we would raise from 453,000 to 561,000 forints. This could be more, especially if it is not a large sum overall, because the number of judges is not as high as, let us say, the number of people working in the public sector. Another area that the government is stepping up in the current budget: we propose a 30 percent increase in the personal benefits of those in prison. Unfortunately, I've seen less this year than last year on their personal benefits, or they've hidden it somewhere very well in the budget. I'm sure Secretary Kontra can answer that better. But as far as the main line is concerned, there is a reduction, while a very heavy work in the prison system is very stressful, both physically and mentally, for those working there. Unfortunately, a lot of people are even happier at taking on the position of a multi-company cashier because of less stress and more salary. I think it would be very important to support the purchase of equipment for voluntary fire brigades to a greater extent. There are currently ridiculously few HUF 225 million earmarked for this purpose. This should be at least doubled, but even a larger lot could be cultivated and supported here. I would also like to briefly describe my proposals for South Buda, which may go beyond the region. At least at planning cost, I would like metros 2 and 4 to be extended and exported to Richricht. It would be enough to spend 2 billion forints on the design, and then we could see exactly how much it costs. Otherwise, it would cost less than a lot of people would think. And so it would be possible to plan the cortexing of the railway line between the South Railway Station and Kelenföld Railway Station, and to plan the cost of this, and if it really were to lead under a cortex, it would have much more advantages than it would have been. The same is true in NewBuda for the planned Galvani bridge, where it can be said professionally that the construction of a tunnel should also be taken into account. It is no exaggeration to separate 1 billion forints and see how much more competitive a tunnel is than a bridge. Otherwise, it would be cheaper to build it and its maintenance costs would be a fraction. Then the XXII. We would also like to make some budget changes in the district, and I have submitted them, so let's talk about South Buda or the southernmost part of Budapest. The rehabilitation of Budafok-Belváros has begun, but there are still many shortcomings. For example, on site the renovation of the lionyard, which is already owned by the local government, or the construction of pedestrian streets, the transformation of Kossuth Lajos Street into a pedestrian street. But the plan to avoid the center of Budafok has also been in place for a long time, but there seems to be no money. I believe that these investments could be made from HUF 1.5 billion, and that the entire district's infrastructure and the downtown area could also be returned to their old patina. In the same way, from a few ten million forints, the bike roads, and not only to Diósd, but to XI. and XXII Circuit or non-district bike road development should also be carried out. I'm thinking about the fact that there's a bicycle road on the Danube bank that connects the XI. and XXII Circuit, this is practically impossible to do on the Lányka street overpass, or only in one direction. Unfortunately, this means that against traffic or on the sidewalk, cyclists are forced to move in completely irregular ways. It's a matter of fact. I do not think that the solution is to put a police officer there, who punishes everyone for 30-50 thousand forints, but should be solved. In addition, there would be no significant expense that could be solved. I think it would also improve the transport of South Buda. In the end, another problem that affects not only the perimeter: the interior of the closed gardens. In this way, a developing part could be formed mainly in the region of Nagytétény-Ohegy. There are many people already living in this area, but not only do they not have the opportunity to walk on a scalloped road, but they do not have the ability to build their property properly, or to participate in any kind of regulation. There's always a neighbor who's not interested, so it can't be left to the people's agreement. I would add that it is not only a need for money here, although I also envisage this in the budget, but also a legislative solution that develops the legal environment in such a way that the rules of expropriation can be applied in such a way that, in the event that the property is worth significantly more expropriation, it is not necessary to wait until the state, the municipality, can spend money on it, but when it can be proven that it is worth more than one, it can be done in such a way that the one or two people who would not contribute to it, even under state pressure, can be persuaded to develop the region. It's the best thing anyone would do. I trust that at least one or two of my amendments will find understanding ears. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-56	Thank you very much. State Secretary Károly Kontrat is coming on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to what Mr Staudt Gábor said, some of which concern the Ministry of the Interior chapter. First of all, I would like to point out that your opinion is wrong, as if it were the case that the professional staff of the prison execution would not benefit from an increase in the remaining 5 percent of the career programme in 2019. That's what they get. The Ministry of Finance has this amount in its provision, its source. It is not, therefore, that prison execution can be managed from less resources and that professional staff should not benefit from this salary development. I'd like to tell you that what we promise, we keep. In 2015 we said that there would be an average increase of 50 per cent between 2015 and 2019 in terms of law enforcement professional staff. Right now, we're at 45 percent. Resources for 2019 are also available. Once again, the resources in the Treasury chapter reserve guarantee this. I ask you, honourable Member, to keep an eye on him, and if that is not the case, feel free to say so. But once again, I would like to reassure both the professional staff and you that this source is available and that this will be implemented from 1 January 2019. [[11.30]] At the end of January 2019, at the beginning of February, when they receive the increased salary, the members of the professional staff can monitor this, and we will monitor it and guarantee that this will happen. As regards the support and task of voluntary fire brigades, what we would like to say in general is that all legal activities aimed at improving and strengthening order, public security, the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people are supported in this budget, not only in respect of professional staff, not only of police and law enforcement agencies, but also, for example, in respect of the vigilantes, as it includes 1 billion 50 million resources in 2019 to support the vigilantes and the vigilantes. We also consider it very important to support voluntary fire brigades, and we also strive to support them through technical means, such as handing over syringes and refurbished syringes; I myself have been involved in this event several times this year. We appreciate it and thank the voluntary fire brigades for the service they have done, for the work they have done. I would like to say that we appreciate them, and appreciate the activities of all organisations that serve to strengthen Hungary's order, public order, public security and security at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-58	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László György, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, please.
u2018-06-29-59	Thank you very much. I would like to comment on two points, and I would like to give Mr Staudt a hint. Economic textbooks and courses explain in a very complicated way the otherwise simple relationship that if we make some technological investment, such as infiltrating 100 units of money into technological investment, and this is very import-intensive, because we need to import technology, where appropriate 80 units leave the country, this economic development resource will increase our economic performance by 20 percent of the input in that year, and the spill-over effect will be felt later when the technological investment is put into operation. This is a very important question. So, for many years, such an investment in economic development is extended. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] In general, this question is also true, and we also know that the Poles have examined the fact that, unfortunately, 67 cents from the Visegrád Four flow back, leaving the country. The starting point for this should be the economic restructuring of the 1990s. The other question I would like to answer is what Mr Brenner has raised in relation to the allocation of resources for science, research and innovation. When we combine the management of research resources and innovation resources and manage funding together, we follow international trends. What we need to see is that we are a small and open country, we need to focus our resources, we need to look at what research is important to us, what we are good at, and what global trends we need to focus on, what we need to understand, what we need to apply, what we are good at, and what we need to innovate in. Unfortunately, we see that some research institutes operate as ivory towers, which is what the statistics show. If we look at the innovation potential and activities of businesses, it shows that the knowledge of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences does not come out. Under the Fundamental Law, we do not want to interfere, the state is not entitled to decide on questions of scientific truth, scientific research is only entitled to evaluate, we do not want to interfere, but scientific independence does not mean free spending. I would say to Congressman Brenner as a university professor that if he had stayed here, that we didn't want to interfere with science, that we would want the representatives of science to sit down with each other and agree on important issues, what we should search for, that we will form envelopes for them, and that we will implement targeted funding in the field of research and development and innovation. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-60	Thank you very much. We will now return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman László Varga, MSZP, please.
u2018-06-29-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We see year after year that there are very serious differences in opinions in opposition and pro-government benches about the presentation of the current budget, in which, obviously, our political position and our perspective are different, but I think the numbers are talkative, and when you talk about a kind of economic miracle since 2010, it is worth looking at, for example, the figures relating to GDP growth or comparing them with, say, other states in the region. You say that the government has created a kind of economic miracle here in our small country, and that is actually the result of this outlier growth. The figures show that there has been a kind of economic activity in the region, in the states of the region, in recent years, this also affects Hungary, but, for example, if we look at the 2016 figures and look at the GDP growth that the states of the region have made in terms of the percentage indicator, then the situation in Hungary is not so rosy. It can be said that in 2016, every country in the Central and Eastern European region produced more serious economic growth than Hungary, so this is also true of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Slovakia. By the way, in 2017, we produced worse data than most of the Member States in the region, and here I would particularly like to draw attention to a state, a neighbouring country, Romania, which is significantly significant! shows better figures: in 2015 it produced 1 percent more growth, and in 2016-2017 its economy grew by nearly 3 percent better than Hungary. It is absolutely legitimate what opposition representatives have said before me: in fact, neither would this increase be, but there would be virtually stagnation in the Hungarian economy without EU funds. In terms of public debt, they talk a lot about their success, but I have to say that the Hungarian government debt has already increased from HUF 20 000 billion in 2010 to HUF 30 000 billion in 2019. [[A statement from Fidesz: And in proportion to GDP?]] And I have to mention again here that HUF 3000 billion of private pension fund assets have disappeared, which should either be deducted from the beginning, from the 2010 data, or should actually be touched by 2019, so significantly! The nominal value of the Hungarian government debt has increased. I must say that your policy is also clearly responsible for the weakened forint, it is clear, because the government and György Matolcsy have talked about it several times, they have repeatedly pointed out that this is actually the result of a conscious policy. The fact is that compared to the level shown on 30 April 2010, the forint weakened by around 24 percent compared to the euro. This is particularly a very delicate issue in these days, and we do not know where this situation ends. I'd quote from a report, I'd say, more specifically, the text of the report, and then I'd give you a very specific quote, and then I'd end up telling you who said it, and when. That's what the report says. The weakening of the forint means that money is actually stolen from people's pockets, as people who live on wages, salaries and other contributions can buy less goods in shops, and pensioners' benefits are less. According to the party leader, the government's references and attempts to weaken the forint can be compared to the medieval king's method, when the rulers tried to minimize the precious metal content of the money, cheating it from its value. And here's a verbatim quote, "The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint means a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. This last quote was made by Viktor Orbán, and the previous report is also about what he said in 2004. [[11.40]] I'm just telling you, summing up what we've just said, that we can have different perspectives, that's natural. We judge tax laws or budgets based on other values, which is also natural. But I think that we must be consistent with what we have said for 10 to 12 years, and I see that you and your party leader do not insist on what you have said. In addition, it is very clear that Hungary is not in the position that you are painting this picture, considering the other states in the region. In addition, Hungarians feel that their own state is practically one of the most corrupt in the region, and every measurement shows this. In five years, it has been achieved that the people of Romania already feel significantly better about the situation of their country from this point of view. And here I would like to draw attention to the GDP growth figures that Romania has produced in recent years. I would like to point out that there may be some connection in the fight against corruption that we can see in Romanian public life. And here and there, the news is all about the incredibly harsh, faceless, outspoken corruption situation, the fact that the oligarchs associated with you are stealing money from the pockets of the Hungarian people. This is unsustainable, and this is the main cause of the problems of Hungary's economy. This is therefore more than a difference in value choice. This is a fundamental problem and there is a fundamental need for change in these eyes. In line with tradition, our performance has submitted budget modifications. We have no illusions, but these amendments reflect our political intentions. These proposals are, in our view, a solution to Hungary's problems in individual areas. A large group is the group of our amendments to education, which we are taking together with several fellow Members. This package has been trying to replace the resources that have been missing for years. We also have a package for health care. Here, obviously, we are proposing a substantive wage arrangement for healthcare workers, and, of course, we have made proposals for renovations, asset purchases, in general, in order to create decent conditions for healing. Of course, we also have proposals to amend the social security system. Let me mention a few other proposals that I have tabled on my own. I would like to propose further support for the rural development programme, and it would be necessary to raise this line by some 30 billion. By the way, I think that this is extremely important for the people in the countryside and for agriculture. There is also a source of this proposal: the public media system, I think, receives serious criticism. Spending this support is more your propaganda, not a real public service, so here's an opportunity. I have tabled three more amendments for Miskolc, briefly, because I have told you, for the sake of my hometown, I will always work a lot and make sure that the problems that are waiting for a solution are on the table. First of all, I submitted an amendment to renovate buildings built with industrialized technology, and here I would like to separate 2 billion forints. Until 2010, the reconstruction of the city's panel buildings took place in one third, so very, very many apartments were renewed. There has been a halt in this programme since 2010. They look forward to the Miskolcs to continue and renew more apartments. I'm initiating a separation. I would like to allocate 1 billion in the budget for road surface reconstruction. Since 2010, there has been a great halt here, and the roads in Miskolc are in amazing condition. Finally, I would like to briefly mention a proposal for an amendment involving a source of 600 million, which would significantly improve the city's air pollution situation and reduce it. You may recall that for a long year, about a year and a half ago, there was also a 700 percent increase in certain parameters of the health limit in Miskolc. Miskolc and the region, the air of the valley of Sajó, are unfortunately one of the most unhealthy in the country, and can no longer wait to solve this issue. Our political opinion is therefore, in general, completely different in terms of the budget, but the figures show this. And our amendments, which I presented in the second part of my speech, I think that I would clearly help the Hungarian people, and it is very important that I ask you for their support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-29-62	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, on behalf of the government.
u2018-06-29-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would certainly like to reflect on what the Member has said, as he talks here as if he would give more and more to everyone on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, while when the Hungarian Socialist Party was in majority in this Parliament, he took and took me away from everyone. [[Dr. László Varga: There is no time for this!]] Before 2010 and beyond 2010, in the six to seven years preceding and six to seven years thereafter, the OECD examined where governments and countries spend more and less on health care. Before 2010, Hungary was the only OECD Member State, the then MSZP-SZDSZ government, which was the only government to reduce health costs. They often say that there is a crisis, that it needs to be reduced, and the rest, they know these texts. All other countries had the same international conditions, but only in Hungary, only MSZP-SZDSZ reduced the expenditure on health related to GDP. While after 2010, according to the same OECD statement, the seventh largest increase in expenditure on health in Hungary has been made. According to the same methodology, when you governed, who now submitted these attractive amendments, there were only one of the most advanced countries that reduced the sources of health care. I said, since then, we have been trying to make up for these mistakes, and we are trying to make improvements, and therefore the seventh fastest increase in healthcare expenditure is among the most advanced countries. Let us not forget that you were the only ones who reduced the wages of health care workers, but that was not enough for you, since 6,000 medical workers were also dismissed. Now they talk about how little there is; they say it's because the wages are low. You've reduced your wages and dismissed the workers. We have increased the wages and are trying to recruit the workers; not to mention, you have built 16,000 active beds and closed four hospitals. To do this, measure the credibility of what is said to be a health benefit. In the field of education, we can still remember similar things. The dismissal of 15,000 teachers, the reduction of teachers' wages by taking a month's wages from all teachers and cutting education in more than 300 places so that children could not attend school in small settlements. Socially, you may say nice words now, but when you were on the government, you said that you would reduce the norm of social institutions because your secretary said that the neighbors and relatives would take care of the sick, elderly, needy people. This was then the amendment of the Socialist Party's proposal that what the state had done before should be done by the neighbours, they tend to the elderly. Obviously, one of the main foundations of this is your bad economic policy, because it has also led to fewer of these welfare areas, because you have reduced Hungary's performance and total national product; there has been a huge lack of Hungary and its sovereign debt. Fortunately, Hungary has a more stable, safer budget in these welfare areas, which is also the basis for growth. We hope that the time will not come when you will write the health, social and educational budgets, because Hungary has already had very bad experiences and has not asked for them in the last three elections, clearly not once. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-29-64	It's a two-minute lap. First, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2018-06-29-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I love it so much when economists talk about this sovereign debt, GDP ratio, and stuff like that, because they have one thing in common: whatever is true, they can explain all of them. So one minute he explains this, the next minute he explains the opposite, and we always have to believe everything because we stupid lawyers aren't economists, but we can appreciate the numbers. I would just like to say to both the pro-government representatives and the state leaders present: we would be the happiest if we could achieve a 4% increase. We would be the happiest if the debt-to-GDP ratio was reduced by 60%. [[11.50]] We would be the happiest if Hungary were to have the vision that you have outlined here, but the problem is this. You say that the government debt will be HUF 31 430 billion on December 31, 19th. Compared to the 20 000 billion in 2010, this is a 57 percent increase, and I am talking about 2010-18. But GDP per capita was EUR 9900 in 2010, and if our development becomes the most optimal, then by the end of 19, GDP per capita will be 12 800 euros, and please, this is only a 29 percent increase. So the per capita GDP increase is half the nominal increase in government debt, and in life there will be no 4 percent increase next year, which is surely said by everyone who is moderate. The problem is, therefore, that you will never be able to implement this budget and protect it. We'd be the happiest thing to do when we're going to close off with the 19 and we're going to have to tell you what we've managed to do with this budget. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: So far, so interesting!]] then you'll be able to say after 19 that, well, well, we've done it. But I'm afraid you won't be able to say that. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: I've been successful for eight years! The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And we will remind you of this great confidence [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: I've been successful for eight years! Happy István: Always succeeded. Dr. Peter Hoppál: The grapes are sour!]] What I just had. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-66	Congressman László Varju, DK, in two minutes.
u2018-06-29-67	Well, sometimes you have to face what they're really doing and what conditions they've created. It is clear that yesterday the situation has come to this point that they were expecting the IMF's praise, and you have also boasted very much that this has happened. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He couldn't deny our success, even he couldn't! Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] There you go, huh? How loud the congressmen are! But we're happy if you bring some color into this story, because sometimes you can talk about serious things. This includes the scope of economic policy. So far, I have sought to look at what this budget looks like in concrete terms, but let us take a look at the fact that the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz-KDNP, which has been governing for 8 years, has created circumstances for the implementation of such a budget. This is very simple, one-handed, and, in fact, in the domestic economy, there has been a circumstance in which you do not give an opportunity to debate. They decided what they wanted to do, no matter how credible those numbers are or not, they are moving forward, because otherwise the political decision was made. They do not like to deal with reasons, their highly centralised, tangled, loyalty and otherwise control-centric system has not changed. Recently, they refer to such an old-fashioned Christian democracy, which was taken over by the CSU, but it was actually a display not here, but abroad rather, but not worth much. In fact, I have to say that they are working for a very narrow domestic elite. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and their opposition to the European Union supports this. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-29-68	Thank you. Congressman Chenger-Zalan, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2018-06-29-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I pressed a button because Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, our colleague, spoke a little about Budakeszi as a resident of Budakes during the morning as his constituency. That would not be a problem at all, and even a good thing, the problem is that you have no idea what's going on in the constituency. He said things here that have been partly solved, for example, the bike route; Budakeszin, Biatorbágy, Budaörsön are in the process. He was talking about the swimming pool, about the swimming pool that's in the budget of 19 of Budakeszin, but I just took these as an example. It is good to have someone, even if they are not elected representatives in a constituency, speak out for the things of the community here in this House. It's just that these are serious things, and I don't know anything about serious things, and I don't know if he lives there, but no one's ever seen him at a community event, not only in Budakeszin, but also in the constituency, I think his time would be really convenient for him to come to at least one town event at a time. But if you don't have the opportunity, I'll offer it to him for my part, as I do to every citizen in the constituency: my office is open, my phone number is known, ask for information, I'd be very happy to help him, join forces, and work together for the sake of the constituency, but the only way to do this is to be sensible and serious. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-70	Thank you very much. We will now return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, is the first among these. Here you go.
u2018-06-29-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to continue with the condition of questions concerning the Ministry of Interior. First of all, in response to the words of the Secretary of State, let me say again that I think his response in this regard was not satisfactory at all. Maybe he didn't understand what I was asking. So, the fact is that, based on the current figures, with the new police force already recruited, it's actually good to discuss the budget from last year, that we don't see a closure, this blind leads a blind man, because last year's actual numbers are not something that you or we can say today, while we are discussing next year's budget, we know that in the last six months, 8.4 million over-services have been created in the police and law enforcement area. This kicked to 11.1 billion forints in six months. The total budget for next year is HUF 2.7 billion. I understand that Mr Secretary of State claims that this problem will hopefully be eliminated with the inclusion of the new stock, but this stock was available last year, but it is likely that the biggest over-service payment and otherwise serving has occurred in the history of the Hungarian police. My other very important and very specific question. By 31 December 2018, the already adopted HSzt. According to him, you're leading the cash redemption of the excess service. I also don't understand why there is any over-service money in next year's budget if this institution, as it is, ceases. And if it goes away, tell me how you will arrange millions of overtime hours from year to year to year for your staff, because either you can pay it with money or you have to give it to the service officers, the bvs, on double leave. I'll say it again before your appointment, your commissioner said that there should be four times as many police officers to avoid overtime, and from January 1st, they won't pay overtime. I would very much like BM to give a meaningful answer to the fact that if you do not pay overtime next year and you will be able to redeem your colleagues on holiday, then how will this not cause very serious malfunctions in the Ministry of Interior. There is a proposal for an amendment that I have already mentioned and submitted in the course of the budgetary debate, and I am so nervous that, perhaps, Mr Secretary of State will come in, because I would like to ask for your support and assistance in substance - I am sorry, not at the budgetary debate, but at the Law on Freedom of Information, that there has been a law on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies since 2013, the implementation of which has now been being pushed for the sixth year. The last time we see him, he's going to be pushed away by another year in the Finance Act or the Founding Law. This is the law which states that databases in the possession of the State, whether it be the personal data of citizens, be it state-secret, must be kept with adequate physical and IT security. This law is not being implemented by you for the fifth year, which means that for the fifth year, information, data, or state secrets have been kept in public bodies without complying with the most basic security conditions. We would put in the budget of the Ministry of Interior a line that would provide 2 billion HUF extra money from the reserve for the implementation of this law. [[12.00]] We would like to ask you not to set the deadline for another year, because if Hungary's safety is really the most important thing for you, and this budget is for the safety of the Hungarian people, then we ask that you consider and support the proposal that the Ministry of Interior now receive HUF 2 billion, and in the next year carry out the task that you have already set out in law 5 years ago. Finally, I would like to refer a less positive subject to the attention of the Secretary of State. In addition to saying that BM's budget has indeed increased in many areas in recent years, there is an area, Mr Secretary of State, where the situation is dramatic, and I cannot decide whether this information will not reach you, or whether you are so concerned about what is going on in the field of prison. There are, in particular, malfunctions in the field of punishment, and I think there is a risk of collapse. There is a shortage of numbers, however they are cosmeticizing the numbers within the system, which is unbearable and endangering the performance of the basic tasks. If my colleagues who do not work in the area put in the news search, say, the latest news from the bv, then they now see that there is a news weekly about a prison break, there is at least one news every week about an extraordinary event. If you don't do something about Bv's headcount, financial situation and, let me add, the management crisis of my subjective judgment, then these news will happen on a daily basis. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Everyone who has dealt with this area knows that the biggest problem of bv is, of course, that a closed institutional system, the news doesn't go in or out like, say, the police or any other law enforcement agency. It's their curse, too. It's their curse, because they don't know maybe even the politicians, and it seems to me the Ministry itself doesn't know how much trouble there are with the prison staff. And you promised to build 12 new institutions years ago, which didn't come true, and there was no groundbreaking. No investment has been launched, while the number of recruits you have recruited has been trained, and according to our information, and the vast majority of them have already been discharged from the ministerial response. So we've paid a million-dollar amount of training money each for thousands of new recruits who have otherwise left the force, and the shortage of numbers remains incredibly distressing. Believe me, there will be daily problems in prison, and not weekly, but daily, there will be news of extraordinary events, jailbreaks, or anything else if this issue is not dealt with much more specifically than today. Take a look at the fact that your management system with this institute's new management staff is in order or not, but most of all, please give them more money and help them to settle the numbers. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-29-72	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra immediately.
u2018-06-29-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I'd like to reject your sentence, your statement that prison execution is threatening to collapse. That's not true. There is a contradiction between the statement you have made that a significant proportion of the recruited personnel have already been discharged or there is a shortage of staff in the prison and the Ministry of Interior does not know what the situation is. He also said that there was a management crisis, that there were jailbreaks, and that there was a crash. That's what he said. I would like to say and reassure you that the 2019 budget provides the resources that will provide effective service to prison execution, both in terms of operation and in terms of development. With regard to the construction of new prisons, new prisons, I would like to say that there has been multiple procurement procedures, which have been unsuccessful, but we are working on implementing the programme that we have announced and which means the expansion of prison facilities. There is a significant difference, by the way, between your position and our position as regards the execution of the sentence and those who are punishing them in prison. In reply to Mr Staudt Gábor's question earlier, I said that the resources for the development of professional staff, the average of 5% additional 5% salary development in 2019, are available, and these resources are available in the Ministry of Finance's provision. I think that these facts are undisputed. I suggest to the honourable Member that you, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, have a way of checking the government at the committee meeting, to raise these questions if you think these are relevant. What I can tell you is that to the best of our knowledge, we will give you the best answers to the questions you ask. But I would also like to say once again that the execution of the sentence is fulfilling its task. Of course, the goal is to have as few jailbreaks as possible, or no jailbreaks at all, and if there is an escape, the escaped prisoners will be captured, just as they did last time. Obviously, studies will be conducted to avoid these happening again. As regards the overwork, Mr President, in the first part of his statement, I also replied earlier that our aim was to improve the number of people, to minimise the excess work. It will also be possible to verify the fulfilment of this, Mr Congressman. I think the facts will prove that our position is correct. The aim is that the increased number of staff can carry out their task: Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, the protection of the Hungarian borders, the protection of the Schengen external borders. Personal conditions are provided, the source page is also provided in the budget. We have repeatedly said that I do not want to repeat it now - how much more law enforcement goes into the 2019 budget, you have acknowledged that the Ministry of Interior is a chapter and that law enforcement is the winner of the 2019 budget. But I think that I would say that the winners will be Hungarian people, not law enforcement, not the Ministry of the Interior, and we hope that security will continue to grow in Hungary, and we can all defend the borders, and we will achieve further good results with regard to Homeland Security. I would also like to thank the police, the law enforcement professional staff, for the service they have already done and will continue to do for the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-06-29-75	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that the government has reached the security of the Hungarian people for many times and to highlight this aspect. At the same time, I would like to warn you that in order to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, the budget can be planned, you should be able to answer the questions that have now been in the air for two days that affect all our Hungarian countrymen. For example, does the reduction of 27 percent VAT have its intention in the government? Do you at least accept a better proposal to reduce the VAT content of child-rearing articles to 5 per cent of the world record from 27 per cent? It would also deserve an answer, as this budget submission was planned around EUR 320, at the moment we were well over 337. So we're interested to know how many budget lines, how many degrees and how many billions are affected. And I would like to make one personal comment. In all my speeches, I have tried to make professional recommendations, specific questions. But I see that during the previous budgetary debate, the number of amendments to the opposition, Mr State Secretary, was 1148. Of the 1148, zero was supported by the steering wheel. I see that there is confidence in Happy Pista, but you will also answer my fellow Member, please: who do you say you are to say that 1148, so all the opposition representatives' proposals would have been net crap, or would have been net insanity? Don't wave your head. Give a clear answer: who do you dare to say that all the proposals made by these Members have been thrown away from Hungarian reality and have not even been worth a debate? Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.10]]
u2018-06-29-76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2018-06-29-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Here, in the last minutes of this debate, it is worth returning to a few things and reminding ourselves of the circumstances under which the budget itself is planned, and on the other hand whether there are solutions that the government should take into account, even if it is not in the mood to do so. I would therefore like to quote from the circumstances the comments made by the State Audit Office on the budget and its opinion on this, stating that the planned structural deficit of 1.7 per cent does not correspond to the medium-term deficit target. This sentence, which is for you, sends you a message that the planning itself, which has been carried out in the past, has not been in line with what you have already accepted: you have undertaken not only to spend a given year, but not only that you have no 3 percent or more credit in a given year, but instead you do not adhere to a medium-term vision, and in this way you are causing damage to the whole country. I would add that the Committee on Budgets itself will also do so, much more carefully, but the relevant rule reminds me of what you must observe. Under these circumstances, the signal of the Hungarian National Bank comes, which I mentioned earlier, that inflation will not remain below 3 percent, as you have planned, but will instead be more than that. It follows that not only do they not comply with their agreements with the European Union, but they do not comply with their own rules, their own law, because how could we view the opinion and communication of the Hungarian National Bank differently than that of the Hungarian National Bank, when the Minister of Finance and the President of the Hungarian National Bank sit down and discuss this matter in the Fiscal Council, they will represent it there, just as it was said here in the debate that this inflation will not remain below 3 percent; how will they decide in the coming days? Will you veto this budget, or will you let the government go after you, by the way, with a 2.7 percent deficit, with 2.7 percent inflation planned? You are counting on it, and I hope a lot of people expect that the forint exchange rate that is currently in place, which they are trading today, is a temporary condition. But to return to 311 forints, according to your calculations, I think you think it's impossible. This alone draws attention to the fact that, yes, those who speak of the higher value of inflation are right, so this budget must be redesigned, there is no other option. There are solutions, and I can't just say, for the most part, that you don't want to get involved with this, because there's no doubt that that political decision has been made, at least that can be perceived by your attitude, but you're going forward, even if there's a wall at the end of the road, you're going forward, and you're saying according to the political decision that there's not going to be more than 2.7 percent. If it does have to be redesigned, and you hope that the rights taken from Parliament, i.e. the government's own powers, can be adjusted, the austerity which you will otherwise have to do, will be carried out in your own power. However, in itself, I must say that this would not be necessary, because, if I mention only one thing, the Hungarian National Bank, whose task is to manage the foreign reserves of the country, and this reserve management is at the average exchange rate on the balance sheet, and when it converts this currency volume, there was a surplus of HUF 1000 billion between 2013 and 2017. What the Magyar Nemzeti Bank used and why you created such a situation that instead of paying to the state budget, you would be allowed and approved for all uses, from carpet purchase through real estate buildings and until the launch of the unique University of Matolcsy in Kecskemét, this is all in addition to the foundation, rather than being used for the Hungarian people, and this payment would be used in this way, and this option could be used in this way. This year's account of the Hungarian National Bank also includes the surplus that was created. If you'd like to hear another suggestion about what they could use, it's the elimination of Paks II. There is no need for hundreds of billions to be spent on this regularly, so they can stop doing that, and they can save a lot of money next year, and they can pull it out of this circle. What conclusions can be drawn from this? Because it seems that they do not want to take these recommendations into account, and my fellow Member has just drawn attention to the fate of the hundreds of amendments over the last year. I do not know what these amendments can expect this year, but let us assume that there will be some results, despite the fact that I and the Democratic Coalition have decided that your attitude so far does not allow you to count the amendments intelligently and that you would take it into account. That is why I would like to point out that we have not tabled any amendments. I trust that, along with this, you will hear something that the Members here have said in connection with the Finance Act. Allow me, however, to draw attention to one thing. Since the circumstances have evolved as they have been, and I will continue to say that this spring budgeting does not make much sense, I would say that it does not make any sense, there is an expert consensus in this, just because you are rewriting the budget under the law, and you are excluding Parliament from this, and you are not going to bring back a budget amendment here, although this would have been justified after 2017 and 2018, which is why you are going to miss, so you are going to do this, and I am going to continue to say that for the reasons mentioned above, it is worth withdrawing this budget law, redesigning it to the inflation rate of more than 3 per cent, and recalculating this budget accordingly. There is a need to review inflation-related expenditure, including pensions, which you will need to take very good care of. Finally, let me just say one thing, because here there is a small debate on the figures, what you have to do and what you should be paying attention to, in part, in relation to debt in the fiscal law. [[12.20]] According to the proposal, the debt will be HUF 28 483 billion by the end of 2018, and the total debt of municipalities and non-profit organisations in the government sector will be less than HUF 1450 billion. According to the Finance Act, the gross debt of the central subsystem will rise to HUF 29 896 billion at the end of 2019, which alone means an increase of HUF 1414 billion. So the municipalities and I refer to what my colleague Sándor Szabó said here and other organisations should reduce their own debts by HUF 1100 billion compared to the rules of the Stability Act. You can reduce it by 78 percent, that's in the impossible category. On this basis, because of the unrespectability of the Stability Act you have adopted, this budget must be withdrawn and it is not worth counting on. Moreover, the convergence programme itself expects that the government sector's debt will rise to HUF 30 569 billion by the end of 2019, thus exceeding the equivalent of HUF 322 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, This fiscal law cannot be the basis for the predictability, stability and security you have talked about many times, so instead you have to say that it is unpredictable, uncertainty, you have to start again, and accordingly this law cannot be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-29-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Hoppál.
u2018-06-29-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate on the draft law on Hungary's budget for 2019, a number of speakers recorded the prognosis of Minister Mihály Varga, who presented the Budget Act, according to which the main objectives are to maintain and further strengthen Hungary's security. It is important for all of us that Hungary is a safe country, and for everyone, I believe that the trends that the positions of the Hungarian budget have achieved in recent years during the period of civil governance, the second and the third Orbán governments are valuable to the Member of Parliament on either side of the horseshoe. I would like to point out that, as a county with a more difficult fate and a worse historical history, the parliamentary representative of Baranya County is that the results achieved in terms of job creation, our joint achievements are moderate and the data we have been given in Europe. We can see that the unemployment figures of 25-27 percent in 2010 have fallen below 8 percentage points in the last seven years with regard to the city of Komló, a town with a population of 25 000. I think it's safe to call it a success story with a cautionary adjective. It is also a very important figure, which underpins the effectiveness and foundation of the current fiscal law, in addition to the overall employment approach, the reduction of public debt, the next steps of this, as we can also see in the 2010 figures that the civilian government inherited a record government debt in the history of Hungarian public finances, a debt of over 80 per cent compared to GDP. This has shown a steady decline in GDP over the past period, and since the general government deficit is also lower every year and is now below 2 per cent, with a deficit target of 1.8 per cent in this draft, this shows that the lower the year-end deficit, the lower the increase in public debt. GDP growth and government growth of 4.1 percent are much higher than the planned deficit target. Thus, the balance between the small deficit and the higher growth above the EU average is clearly positive. In the last eight years, it is welcome for all of us that Hungary has recovered from the former economic bankruptcy, and this is also apparent from the 2019 Finance Act that we will continue to pursue this path. What still shows tangible progress in the draft budget law is the cultural area. Allow me to address, for a few words, the most important positive trend in the cultural sector. Only in the four years left behind, the cultural budget doubled and even increased by two and a half times between 2010 and 2017 the amount of public funding for culture. Not only do we say and not only do Hungarian information providers highlight the positive numbers of this cultural business, but according to the data published by the European Statistical Office last summer, let us hold on to the last year of 2016 under examination by Eurostat, my fellow Members. of the 28 EU Member States, Hungary spends the most on cultural expenditure. Hungary spends most on culture in proportion to GDP. We came first in terms of cultural state spending. This is a welcome trend because the tools of culture can be the most spectacular way to improve society. There's a reason the government announced the basic cultural care program four years ago. In the framework of this, we have tried to provide a valuable culture to all Hungarian citizens through every institutional system, the system of library institutions, the system of public education, institutions operating in different artistic fields, and the world of museums and archives; in the way of accessing culture, we have gone through the accessibility program over the past four years. The effectiveness of this can also be measured by the fact that the amount of cultural support of nearly HUF 40 billion, which is included in the chapter lines of the Ministry of Human Resources, is complemented by the resources of the Ministry of Interior for culture, which, through normative funding, increases and increases the chances and opportunities of access to culture for all citizens through local authorities. I stress, therefore, that cultural life is flourishing outside the capital, and even at the level of settlements below 5,000 people, we have been able to reach in recent years that, for example, we have been able to extend the library service to all settlements. In fact, last year's amendment to the cultural law saw the government's intention to regulate the new law for all types of institutions to participate in the basic cultural provision. Dear Parliament, I think that it is even clearer, through some basic data, that we are living in Hungary today in a period of cultural economic activity. It is enough to remind you that the visiting data of Hungarian theatres show the purchase of tickets of 7.1 million people in the last year. This represents a 56 percent increase compared to eight years earlier. This means that if a hundred people went shopping for theatre tickets in 2009 and 2010, more than 150 people now buy theatre tickets in Hungary. This is the extent to which theater reception has increased in Hungary. Here, too, I would like to highlight an important question: the National Theatre Meeting in Pécs is already on its way to the festival as soon as the meeting starts, it is already full-house performances, and there are no tickets available. To this extent, the wide audience is not only interested in the events of the year in stone theatre. [[12.30]] But I can also make another parallel: for the third time, in Komló, the Hungarian-language amateur actress in the Carpathian Basin, the KASZT, the Amateur Theatre Meeting in Komló, which sets out ratings records, and related to which professional organizations have now found new ways to meet the audience. So the theater and even I would like to put here the classical music concert visit shows a very growing trend. Obviously, without the underlying amount of State aid, there would be no additional supply on the market for either theatres or concerts. The number of concert ticket buyers has doubled in Hungary during the last eight-year period of the civil government, and the proportion of classical music concerts shows a 30% increase. I think it's also very important, emphatic data. If there is one more important question: rural cultural festivals can contribute to the strengthening of the local economy by tourism, as the use of services in the cultural festivals has shown a drastic increase in the years behind us. This means that the new source that Péter Benő Banai, as a result of previous negotiations, launched as a new chapter line in support of rural cultural festivals last year is 500 million HUF, with an aid intensity already of 750 million HUF this year, that this amount may increase even further in the coming year - this will certainly lead to an increase in rural cultural opportunities, which will strengthen people in the countryside. I would also like to highlight such programs in my constituency, as besides the mentioned National Theatre Meeting in Pécs, the Zsolnay Light Festival, which is now taking place today, will also result in a huge public attraction in the city of Pécs, presenting a special, new medial artistic branch and presenting it to the audience. But I can also mention the Seven Hills International Film Festival, which will be held in Komló. Moreover, these festivals have mostly won the title of the European Festival Federation, and the government provides state support for the organisation of these rural festivals. I think this is a very good and positive trend. In addition to the high culture on symbolic issues, it appears that the growing support for amateur culture and cultural activities in the field of public culture is also an opportunity not only to have a narrow layer of contact with culture, but also everyday. I refer to the statement made by Tamás Freund, Vice-President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, professor of neurobiology brain research, that otherwise, in the most susceptible age of childhood, the brain has a very special stimulating effect if the child encounters arts as often as possible in a week. That is why we consider it important to involve young people in the creation of everyday culture, in the creation of an active culture, in addition to the possibility of school contact with arts. In this respect, too, we can say that the cultural sector has constantly expanded data. I would therefore like to thank the experts for their cooperation in the new budget, next year's budget, with regard to the data presented to the government, which has set a new stage in the cultural economy and the continuation of the basic cultural supply programme, which will strengthen society as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-29-80	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2018-06-29-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's Déjà vum, but I'll tell you anyway, because I've always seen someone report to the Secretary of State what I'm asking. I would like to start over one last time on these three issues, and perhaps we will continue the debate in the form of an immediate question or in the form of another plenary session if we fail to get on the green side. So when I was talking about the crisis in the management of bv, I was just talking about what I'm talking about here, Mr. Secretary of State. If they don't realize and don't realize that there are basic operational and funding problems with that organization, it'll be what we've seen in the last two years since a police chief was appointed to command Bv. Any number of institutions had trouble, and if not elsewhere, they can find it back in the Blikk - then they have replaced the entire command staff in that institute, and the problem is solved by the Hungarian government and the National Command for Correctional. But the problem is not that the leaders are bad, but that they simply can't give up the service time of the staff today, that they can't assign them, and that they probably can't match the letter of the law in many cases. Now, not to mention, this is a longer problem - that very often civilian, let's say IT colleagues are assigned to prison escorts, because there is simply no staff in the institutions, which will obviously result sooner or later in this organization being turned upside down. In the case of over-service, I think it would be fair for BM to tell the few tens of thousands of people who will be affected by this change by December 31, that this year's over-service money worth HUF 20 billion, which they received in cash, will certainly not be received next year. This will result in a reduction of hundreds of thousands of HUF per person per year. I think it's worth it if they know. Finally, I would like to ask Mr.Banai Péter Benő, Secretary of State, whether what I have tabled for the amendment can be supported by the government, so that the implementation of the information security law is finally not pushed, but that the lousy one, one and a half or two billion forints are already given to BM, or who must, and ensure that the IT data in the possession of the Hungarian State is physically and ITally safe. Secretary of State, these are data in law enforcement bodies, which may be data in national security bodies, which, by the way, pose a security risk to this day in a way that affects the population register and electoral data. I ask you to resolve this matter and support my proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-29-82	Thank you. Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Congressman János Volner.
u2018-06-29-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State of Banai, The question of public transport and the financing of municipalities has been raised here. I would like to link the two together, and with respect, I would like to be interested in the reason why we see a hole in the financing of quasi-tax organisations. I am thinking, in particular, that every year István Tarlós fights his battle with the government to receive new and new support for the BKV, because the BKV is inoperative without individual support each year and would practically fail. But I am asking why, in the last eight years, your government has failed to create a programme that would at least have replaced depreciation in this sector, because it is not to a small extent due to the fact that a large part of quasi-tax entities have an obsolete asset park. The BKV itself is also struggling with an internal debt of HUF 800 billion, according to the Board's report. Thanks to this, the fleet has grown old, the devices are ageless, their security of supply is low. I ask you that this is the policy of the short leash that Viktor Orbán has been pursuing, that István Tarlós must be kept on a short leash, that István Tarlós punches every year for the state support, or that there is a lack of forward-looking budget planning, that they have not found a satisfactory solution. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-06-29-84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2018-06-29-85	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We are approaching the end of the three-day debate. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpat, was so interested in my opinion that he left the room immediately after he said his own saying. I do not see that you are so interested in what will happen to the more than a thousand amendments, even though I would have liked to have shared my thoughts with him. Béla Turi-Kovács made it clear that sustainable development is projected by this budget, and if the opposition had more than a thousand amendments in which they were sympathetic, of course, we would all be integrated, especially towards the population, then this budget would not be a sustainable development budget, because it would collapse. The fact is that the government will obviously incorporate those amendments and will support the group that will ensure that the budget is stable and that we can achieve all the goals that we have set. [[12.40]] It also turned out in the three-day debate that every party in the opposition would like to introduce multi-key personal income tax. They even explained in the election campaign that they disagree with the single-key personal income tax. Then it was revealed in the three days, as one of our fellow Members told us how they imagined it. The idea is that 24 per cent of the average income is taxed upwards. This would mean that teachers, doctors, civil servants and other workers whose wages have been increased in recent years would virtually lose some of their salary increase. I am very sorry that our fellow Member of the LMP has accidentally spoken, and I am pleased to hear it, but he may be sorry, but in any case I have noted this speech, and I will also interpret it to teachers and doctors that there is a party here, even all the other opposition parties, I think he agrees - which would have reduced the wage increase they have received so far with its first measure if it had been on the government. Luckily, they didn't come to government, and I'm confident that it will be for many years. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-29-86	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] There are no candidates, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, to respond to what has been said.
u2018-06-29-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the fourth time, the Parliament can decide on the budget for the following year and, in parallel, on the tax laws related to the budget and on the bill establishing the budget. Several of the past few days have voiced the criticism that it is unnecessary to draw up a budget in the spring, since the closing accounts of the previous year are not yet known, there is a lot of uncertainty, and that is why the next year's budget cannot stand on its feet. I think that, if we look at the experience of the last few years, we can say that all the billing proposals submitted by the government to the Parliament in the spring, which the Parliament voted on at the end of the spring session, have so far stood on their own feet. If an amendment was made, it was only because during the year the economic processes developed even better than we had planned in advance, and with additional expenditure covered by the additional revenue, it was possible to leave the general government deficit target unchanged. I therefore think that Parliament can vote with good hope on the draft budget law for next year at the end of the spring session. This draft budget law was delivered before its submission by the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council. An organisation independent of both governments concluded that the draft budget law is well founded both in terms of revenue and expenditure, and that the debt reduction objective laid down in the Fundamental Law is realistic. I think this confirms once again that predictability can also characterize 2019 if the budget and tax rules are adopted in spring. As far as the accounts are concerned, the bill on the implementation of the 2017 budget will be submitted by the Government to Parliament within the deadline. The fact that Parliament has not yet voted on this does not mean that we do not know the 2017 figures. We are aware of the fact base of 2017, we know the processes of 18, on the basis of which the proposed budget law for 2019 was drawn up. The figures for 2017 and the figures for the implementation of the central budget for 2018 are public, and can be found on the website of the Hungarian Treasury and the Ministry of Finance, as is the case with Eurostat's validated figures for 2017 on Eurostat's website. On this basis, we can say that the 2017 budget adopted in spring ended by 2 percent instead of a deficit of 2.4 per cent of GDP, with a better deficit compared to the forecast. I therefore think that one of the main questions we have been able to answer is whether it is appropriate to adopt a budget at the end of the spring session. I think so, because it strengthens predictability, and based on the experience so far, these adopted budgets have once again stood on their feet. I would like to turn to the topic that has also been a key issue in the last two and a half days. In particular: will the 2019 budget be able to stand on its feet, what are the macroeconomic conditions with which we calculated, is the growth that we calculated is realistic, what happens if the HUF/euro exchange rate changes, what happens if inflation changes differently? In this regard, if I may, I would first reflect on the economic policy that has characterised the Hungarian government and the parliamentary pro-government fractions, what situation we are in when we are talking about a few waves of crisis, whether I am thinking about real economic matters here, such as the possibility of a trade war between the United States and other global players, or whether I am thinking of money market waves, see sovereign financing, exchange rate changes. I have to argue strongly with the findings about the fact that a crisis would find the Hungarian economy in a bad situation. Several opposition speakers spoke about this. I think that the crisis ten years ago is a good opportunity to compare the situation of the Hungarian economy in 2008 and 2018. In 2008, the country was characterised by a twin deficit, both a high deficit in public finances and a current account deficit. We know that our public debt increased year by year before 2010, we know that the unemployment rate was 12 percent, we know that the activity rate in the European Union was extremely low due to the high number of inactive people, we know that GDP reached levels that did not represent any real convergence, and we know that because of this vulnerability, the economic crisis affected Hungary in a very negative way. In 2009, the economy fell by nearly 7 percent. Ten years later, we are talking about a 4% increase in next year's draft budget law. So I think that the two situations are uncomparable. It's no coincidence that while we were in overdeficit procedure ten years ago, we could put this behind us a long time ago. It is no coincidence that we had a bad rating with credit rating agencies, and now we are in the category recommended for investment in all three major international credit ratings. Why? Not only because we can now see a decrease year after year since 2011 compared to the previous increase in debt, and this is also expected in next year's draft law, but also because the structure of the debt has changed significantly. If we look at the situation in this way, we are now much less exposed to HUF/euro exchange rate movements, for example, because the share of government debt in foreign currency has fallen substantially below 25 per cent compared to above 50 per cent. With regard to the change in the exchange rate of the forint, I see no reason for what Mr László Varju has repeatedly said on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, namely to withdraw the budget. We saw a budget before 2010 that the government had withdrawn, but it didn't stand on its feet. I think that it is precisely to prevent possible waves from international space, for example, to prevent the impact of a different forint/euro exchange rate than the draft, or to prevent any other value of inflation, that the budget is expected to increase substantially. If I am talking about the macroeconomic picture, then I can also say that next year's budget is called the budget for safe growth because, on the one hand, it calculates a 4.1 percent increase and, on the other hand, takes into account the fact that, of course, international processes may have a significant impact on Hungarian figures and, therefore, reserves have been increased. I consider it particularly useful to discuss the last two and a half days in this regard, because I think it has confirmed that the government has acted correctly by increasing by 50 percent in the budget for next year's budget the amount of extraordinary government measures, and by 50 percent it has increased the security reserve that can only be used to meet the deficit target. [[12.50]] It also increases security by calculating a 1.8 percent deficit. In the last two and a half days, it has been said several times that the government does not comply with an EU rule and even violates its own legislation by not calculating the so-called structural balance by 1.5 percent by 2019. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that as many economists, there are so many ways of calculating the level of the structural balance. It's an extremely complicated category. I would not bore the Honourable Parliament for long, considering the cyclical position of GDP and so-called one-off items, the structural balance can be determined. In our view, the budgetary policy so far has clearly served economic growth and, at the same time, to catch up on wages, and our understanding is that the medium-term figures for the structural balance have been compiled in a way that is consistent with Hungary's medium-term structural balance target, and that this 1.5 percent structural balance will therefore be achieved by the Hungarian budgetary position in 2020. What matters is that the lack of a budget ensures a reduction in public debt. This is how next year's draft budget law was drawn up, and in this spirit we are preparing the following draft budget law from the confidence of voters. By 2020, we calculate that our deficit could be below 1 percent, and in line with this, public debt could also fall to around 60 percent of GDP. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] Let me also talk about how the economic growth that we have achieved in recent years can be assessed internationally. Left-wing speakers have repeatedly talked about the fact that international growth is not high. The 2016 figures were highlighted by MEP László Varga. Allow me to draw attention to Eurostat data, which are public data. This means that in the four years following the turn of growth in 2013, the Hungarian economy grew by 3.6 percent on average. This is higher than most countries in the region. Moreover, I repeat, this growth has been achieved in addition to the stability of public finances and the current account surplus, i.e. the equilibrium indicators have also developed well. I do not think that Romania should be mentioned as an example in this regard. Yes, in Romania there was more growth in 2016 and 2017 than in Hungary. But at what cost? He's developed a twin deficit. I would warn everyone not to take this course. We Hungarians know exactly what it means to develop twin deficit and what negative consequences it can have. And if I have mentioned growth and paralleled the situation ten years ago on the basis of recent days, then allow me to quote, yes, the IMF with which our economic policy views differed in many respects. The IMF has recently visited Hungary and has conducted consultations with key economic policy actors, and on this basis the IMF considers that this year, following these positive developments last year, there is a realistic economic growth of around 4 per cent. If I look at international organisations, I can't even say they're optimistic, because for example, the OECD calculates an increase of 4.4 percent. And if you look at the fact number of the first quarter, the increase was 4.4 percent, and the so-called calendar figure shows 4.7 percent economic expansion. I therefore think that the funds for which we have prepared the draft budget law for next year are relatively favourable. And if I have already mentioned Romania, and in the last two-and-a-half days I have mentioned the issue of demographic sustainability and emigration in the context of next year's draft budget law, let me repeat that, on the basis of international public statistics, the proportion of residents who have left Hungary for work is much lower, I can say, a fraction of the Romanian value, for example, but much less than the values seen in most neighbouring countries. It is a fact that, after joining the European Union, a significant proportion of workers have exercised the right to choose a free country, to choose a job, but we are working on it, and next year's draft budget law was made in the spirit of making it as worthwhile as possible to live and work in Hungary. In this respect, I cannot agree with the opinions on the budget for unsustainableness next year. If I may, I would then like to open another line of thought on the extent to which, in addition to these macroeconomic figures, there is an increase of over 4 per cent, with a deficit of 1.8 per cent and with increased reserves, there is scope for tax reductions in each area. As a result of this increase of more than 4 percent, additional resources will be available for family support, wage increases, both at the discretion of the competition sphere and in the public sector, according to the decision of the State. If I said emigration figures before the macroeconomic data in Romania, I have to say that the real convergence that goes hand in hand with wage catch-up in 2019 will continue in 2019, and which means that we hope that more and more people will think that their livelihoods are guaranteed in Hungary, that it will be worth working in Hungary, and that the trend that we saw in relation to immigration and immigration will continue, according to which more people returned to Hungary last year on the basis of the data of the KSH than the number of people left. So in next year's draft budget law, I think that wage increases and, for example, the increase in family support are also serving this purpose. But to be specific, we calculate an average wage increase of about 9 per cent throughout the economy. This could be about 6 percentage points higher than the EU average. In the competitive sector, wage increases are, in our view, supported by the change in the tax system that can take place. In particular, under the six-year wage agreement of 2016, the government undertook to gradually reduce the rate of social contribution tax. We calculate that this will be achieved in 2019, so the rate of social contribution tax can be reduced from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent. This leaves significant additional resources for businesses, which could use this free-flowing resource to raise wages or invest. Of course, the exact time of this tax reduction depends on the real wage increase contained in the agreement. What I can tell you is that the government's commitment to what they signed earlier will continue to reduce the rate of social contribution tax. But I also think that in the competitive sector, wage increases are supported by positive changes in small businesses. The limits and limits of the electorate increase substantially, and one of the most popular and most popular tax types, the so-called kata, remains. If I have said wage increases in the competition sector and I have mentioned them in the public sector, we can also expect progress in this respect for those working in the public sector. The government has previously undertaken to make wage increases in the public sector in line with economic growth. More than 550 thousand people in the 700 thousand main budgetary bodies have already received wage increases, and these have been substantial wage increases, such as the 50 per cent wage increase for law enforcement or defence agencies, the last part of which will be included in next year's draft budget law. But in addition to the wage increases that have already been launched and are under way, next year's bill states that in the case of government officials and civil servants in the municipalities, a substantial increase in wages can also be achieved. This is covered by the draft budget law for next year on the reserve estimates, and the specific rate depends on the government's decision at a later date. As regards large spending areas, it has been said in recent days that the state spends little on education, health or social security and welfare purposes. If we look at the data factually, what I can tell you is that in these areas we can calculate surplus amounts. [[13.00]] It's 15 billion forints in education. Many people have said that this is of little value, but please note that many European Union projects are running out, as a result of which EU funds for education can be reduced from 2018 to 2019, but this is not only offset by the purely domestic surpluses available in the education system, which amount to around HUF 98 billion. Thus, as the two sources of funding, education spending could increase by HUF 15 billion in 2019. Health. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, pointed out that while health expenditure per capita decreased before 2010, the trend turned around after 2010 and health expenditure per capita increased. These increases not only resulted in nominal increases in health expenditure, but also show real value growth by inflation between 2010 and 2018, but I can say that by 2019, because the bill, which is before the Honourable Parliament and on which the debate took place, contains a surplus of HUF 101 billion for health purposes. If I was talking about the budget for safe growth and first about the macroeconomic aspect of security, then, of course, the word "security" can be interpreted in the strict, direct sense of the word. I think it is no longer a question, and we can see that in most countries in Europe there is a change of direction on how to look at the migration process that has been strengthened after 2015 and which has indeed resulted in a deterioration of the public security felt by the people and families in many Western European countries. From this point of view, it should also be appreciated that Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world and, of course, our aim is to preserve this security, so the draft budget law for public security and defence of next year contains HUF 156 billion more expenditure than this year's. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] The Hungarian State will spend more than 163 billion forints on social security and welfare purposes and most of its retirement if the Honourable Parliament adopts the bill than in 2018. A significant part or a determining part of this expenditure is the amount of pensions. I must stress that, in the context of pensions, in addition to preserving their real value after 2010, they may have experienced real growth, as the real value of pensions has increased by about 10 percent due to low inflation, and this increase does not include the payment of the pension premium or the Elisabeth vouchers. The draft budget law for next year therefore calculates overall that pensioners throughout the year will not only be able to retain the real value of their pension in 2018, but also, thanks to the pension premium, if the increase is to exceed 3.5 per cent, they will be entitled to additional benefits. And, as a matter of fact, if inflation deviates from the government calculated at 2.7 per cent, then the government undertakes to provide the pension supplement at the end of the year, at the statutory deadline. There are therefore more for education, health, public safety, social goals and family support. If we talked about what it takes to make it worth living in Hungary and look at the growth and real wage differences between the undoubtedly existing Hungarian and Western European core countries, what are the steps that make more and more people think that it is worth living and working in Hungary? If we are looking for answers to these questions, in addition to the already mentioned wage increases and wage convergence, in addition to the already mentioned safe existence, I also need to highlight the support of family formation, and I have to say that next year's budget bill will spend some HUF 90-100 billion more on supporting families than in 2018. The exact amount is, of course, not yet available, because, thanks to the system of tax incentives introduced by the civil government, more than HUF 360 billion can remain as a family discount for families, this family discount will be extended, and the more people work, the more they earn, the greater the amount of the family discount. Together with these family tax incentives or the increasing amount of housing subsidies also introduced by the civil government, all family support can be around HUF 2003 billion in 2019. This represents a HUF 90-100 billion higher than in 2018. There was much talk in the debate about how much the state spends on itself. I think that the debate was useful in this regard, because I trust that we have been able to clarify that the state itself, the so-called general community services, would spend only HUF 15 billion more in 2019 than in 18 if the Parliament accepted the Government's proposal, so that, thanks to the one-off items already mentioned, this surplus of EUR 15 billion includes, for example, an increase in our contribution to the European Union budget of HUF 40 billion, because if the economy grows, Hungarian GDP will increase more than the EU average, then our payment will increase in proportion to our economic development. So, if 15 billion is the total increase in operations and, by the way, 40 billion is the surplus of our EU contribution, then I think we can see that the state continues to manage its own operations disciplined, along with the fact that, as already mentioned, we are calculating wage increases for government officials. As regards the role of the State as a developer, I think that the views that the State should not play an active role in investment are perhaps outdated today. In the next year's budget, we will call the budget for safe growth for a budget of HUF 4000 billion in order to promote growth. About half of these expenditure is only related to EU-funded programmes, the other half is purely domestic-funded, and if you look at the fact that there is always a mandatory share of EU-funded programmes, then on the basis of next year's draft budget law, it is safe to say that the amount of purely domestic-funded public investment expenditure is significantly higher than the item financed by the European Union. I think that perhaps we have also been able to clarify the question whether the country's growth is due only to EU funds or not. If it were solely due to the fact that countries whose net beneficiaries are the EU budget for more than three decades should see very significant economic growth. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I believe that this example also shows that, in the longer term, it is not the quantity of EU funds, but the quality of economic policy that determines whether there is an economic catch-up or not, while, of course, EU funds, which account for several per cent of GDP, if used well, contribute substantially to the expansion of the economy. The municipal system was also mentioned. I would like to confirm that, according to our calculations, the stability of local authorities will be maintained in 2019, the additional resources needed for the operation of local authorities will be provided by the draft central budget law, and I would like to point out that, thanks to the growth of the economy, we calculate that the industrial tax revenue of local authorities will be around HUF 58 billion more, while the contribution of solidarity will only amount to HUF 11 billion for deposit plus the best-favoured municipalities. This proposal for a budget law for next year expects further reductions to be made in addition to the tax reductions already mentioned, thus the benefit of families with two children will be increased, with the last rate doubling the benefit of families with two children from 2019, reaching HUF 40,000 per month. I mentioned that the reduction of the social contribution tax rate will help businesses operate by hundreds of billions of HUF. And from now on, it is important to highlight, as Mr Czerván mentioned, that, in addition to fresh milk, the VAT rate for so-called UHT and ESL milk is also decreasing, and with this reduction, we believe that the 1.8 percent deficit target for next year can be maintained. Regarding next year's budget, we have often said that, in addition to the budget for safe growth and family support, it will continue to increase the number of jobs, so I must point out that we believe that employment will be strengthened by the measure that has been included in the budget and taken into account that pensioners, if they want to work, if they want to return to the labour market, will only be subject to a tax, personal income tax, and will no longer have to pay additional items. [[13.10]] Dear House, I therefore think that next year's budget bill will calculate a substantial economic growth, while maintaining security, so that it will serve the further strengthening of Hungarian families in 2019 in addition to a sustainable macroeconomic path. This could continue the economic policy that I think Hungarian families are clearly the winners of, and which is now recognised by international organisations. As I mentioned, the bill was well founded by the Budget Council and the SAO. In view of this, I thank the Members of Parliament with all due respect for their contributions and work, and I warmly recommend the bill to be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Committees will discuss the amendments tabled next week. The general debate on the draft law on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2019 is now taking place until closure. Government referral T/629. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Szabó to explain the time frame.
u2018-06-29-89	Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has 103 minutes, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 44 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 25 minutes for the DK Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 4 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. The speech of the representative, advocate or representative of nationality or representative of the nationalities committee of Hungary will take place in a total of 20 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2018-06-29-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-06-29-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The aim of the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2019 is to establish the legislative and regulatory frameworks that are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the Finance Act. The individual amendments are in line with the government's budgetary and economic policy objectives: strong and sustainable economic growth, support for families, achieving full employment, reducing public debt, reducing public burdens and increasing wages, and safeguarding the country's security. The bill proposes to amend 42 laws in order to achieve these objectives. Please allow me to highlight some of the proposals for amendments. The bill concerns several aspects of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Part of the provisions aim to ensure that resources of a central fiscal development nature are available at the Hungarian Treasury until they are used. These proposals increase the internal resources of the single treasury account compared to the current rules, which will allow for more effective government debt management. The government will be able to require the local government, local self-government, association and the majority-owned company of the State not only from EU funds, but also from other domestic sources for development budget support, to be managed in a treasury account instead of commercial banking. In order to facilitate the efficiency of public spending, we are also proposing that municipalities and other entities classified in the government sector should transfer and manage their EU aid advances managed on commercial bank accounts of beneficiaries to accounts opened at Treasury. It is important that the contractual rights and obligations of the beneficiaries are not substantially affected by the change, since the account holder of the Treasury Account remains the beneficiary of the given municipality or other organisation, and the Treasury continues to make payments on it under its provisions. The aim is to standardise the order of keeping accounts with the Treasury and to clarify the range of account holders outside the Treasury, which is the National Infrastructure Development Ltd., which is significantly linked to the budget. also requires the required management of the treasury accounts. In this context, we are also proposing that, in order to ensure uniform central liquidity management, account holders outside the treasury should no longer have a securities account or purchase securities, i.e. their development resources from the State should be held at the Hungarian Treasury. The proposal provides for the transfer of tasks carried out by municipal companies to a local government budgetary body, similar to the receipt by the central budgetary body of State-owned companies. Here, the government proposed an amendment proposed by the municipalities. In the light of judicial practice and enforcement experience, the proposal also clarifies the range of persons obliged to provide treasury information and to pay the corresponding fine. As part of the law governing public finances, it is also necessary to mention the amendment of the Act on Hungary's economic stability, which extends the role of the Fiscal Council in accordance with EU legislation, so that in future the organisation will examine the level of the budgetary balance separately. As a result of the statistical accounts of the Union, the financial liabilities of Eximbank should be considered as part of the public debt, which made it necessary to supplement the procedural rules for compliance with the debt requirement, so the amendment also proposes this. It is therefore a matter of having a long discussion, of whether Eximem, Eximbank, should be regarded as part of the state or not, the Hungarian statistical authorities continued with Eurostat. We believe that Eurostat has not conducted a transparent procedure in this regard, nor has it disclosed the basis for deciding in each Member State whether my exi is part of the State or not. We need to know that in most countries in Europe there is an organisation such as the Hungarian Eximbank. However, Eurostat has made its decision, which is why the proposal is designed to allow Eximbank to generate debt and to borrow and issue bonds without prior government authorisation, since Exim's debt is also part of the public debt in the broad sense. Dear House, Let me also say a few words about further important legislative amendments, in addition to the law governing public finances. The amendment to the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is justified by the fact that budget subsidies to finance the performance of Hungarian research, development and innovation tasks should appear in one place, in the section of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Increasing productivity and efficiency are key issues for the sustainable growth of the Hungarian economy. This can only be achieved by increasing added value and increasing the use of improvements and innovations. This is why the Ministry of Innovation and Technology was established in the new governance structure, and that is why next year's budget bill aims at a stronger coordination of public R &amp; D expenditure. According to the Social Insurance Pension Act and the related sectoral legislation, the application for an old-age pension and pre-age benefit is no longer conditional on the person concerned not being insured on the starting date of the application, thereby reducing the administrative burden on the claimants. For example, pensioners can apply for a pension even if they want to continue working. So when we talk about giving pensioners every opportunity to return to the labour market as easily as possible if they want to, I think that this regulation is also a step in this direction, because it does not take one or two days to leave their jobs and then return to work, but this administrative simplification makes it easier for them to work continuously even after they reach the retirement age. [[13.20]] In line with the government's measures to strengthen families, we propose to amend the law on the protection of children and child care management, which provides in particular for the integration of the institution of the school into the domestic child protection system, which aims primarily at providing basic child welfare services for disadvantaged children. The Law on the formation and protection of the built environment and the Law on the Protection of the City Picture in the future would require an official permit to build a building with a gross surface area of 400 square metres or more, failing which, the construction authority may prohibit and impose a fine on its intended use. The amendment to the Act on the entry and residence of third-country nationals would lead the legal institution of national residence permits out of the legal system after the sale of settlement bonds has ceased. The amendment of the Act on central government bodies and the status of members of the Government and of the State Secretarys would clarify the rules for documenting government meetings and would provide ministers with the possibility of setting a personal salary in the light of the statutory limits on the remuneration of the head of a budgetary body or company under the authority of the Minister. The amendment of the Law on the status of the Attorney General and other public prosecutors' servants and on the career of prosecutors proposes to increase the amount of allowances due to prosecutors. The amendment of the Public Service Officers Act proposes to clarify issues related to the termination and termination of the relationship between public service officials and public officials on the basis of feedback from law enforcement practices. The amendment to the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land is justified by the increase in the number of property estimates found to be unrealistically fraudulent in the case of land enforcement procedures. The fulfilment of payment obligations now hinders the performance of the basic tasks of the National Ground Fund Management Organisation and constitutes an unjustified budgetary burden for the State. In addition to what has been said, the proposal clarifies the interpretation of more laws and introduces changes to the changes in the mandate and powers of ministers. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill before the National Assembly are consistent with the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2019. The individual amendments and regulatory clarifications are intended to support the responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget. That is why I ask you to discuss the bill and accept it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-29-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó first.
u2018-06-29-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State presented us with the bill before us very comprehensively. I'd like to add a few thoughts to this circle. On the one hand, as in previous years, the government's central budget proposal for 2019 was presented in the spring 2018 session. A very important and essential part of this is the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2019. The main aim of the motion is to include legislative amendments, both in the area of harmonisation of laws and the harmonisation of budgets and tax laws, and in the area of smoothing out implementation. Allow me to draw attention to a number of priority areas without the need for completeness. With regard to the amendment of the Act on Hungary's economic stability, as Mr Secretary of State has said, it is perhaps most important to transpose the situation of Eximbank, its location, and the Council Directive 2011/85/EU on the requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States in relation to the tasks of the Fiscal Council. Here, perhaps the most important thing is that if the Fiscal Council does not agree with the Government's proposal in accordance with the legal provisions relating to State debt, central budget debt, then the Government will present an amendment proposal and, accordingly, correct the previous proposals by numerical deduction. The amendment contains a fundamental provision, and it is absolutely important that we talk about it separately. It must be clearly stated that in the case of a municipal guarantee and guarantee, there is no need for the government's prior consent in the event of transactions that may be concluded without authorisation by other municipalities and the extension of liquid loans from municipal companies. The amendment of the law creates the possibility for the government to authorise the replacement of existing debt transactions of municipal companies in connection with contractual modification or debt renewal if they comply with the requirements of the new transaction and new requirements and can in any case create a more favourable economic condition. The Public Finance Act would be amended on a number of points as proposed. Partly for the association of the local government, local minority self-government and the majority-owned companies of the State, the obligation to keep a treasury account not only from EU funds but also from other development sources. This provision, like other regulations, will certainly allow the so-called CES stock to be expanded to reduce the level of public debt. In accordance with the accounting rules, the submission clarifies the rules governing the treasury accounts in such a way as to determine, for example, NIF, the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. to determine your bank accounts during the management of the Treasury and to keep an account only there. The possibility of buying securities for account holders who are obliged to hold a treasury account is universally prohibited, and in Hungarian, the peddling of the money held in the treasury account is not possible by buying securities. Thus, the amounts kept in the account as a result of financial regulation are more secure and continuously manageable and transparent. It clarifies the rules on the recovery of claims arising from State counter-guarantee enforcement, as well as the rules on notification and declaration in the context of the registration of herd-books. It also eliminates the duality of the budgetary supervisor and superintendent who do not differ in his function and powers, and therefore only the supervisory institution will exist in the future. The proposed amendment repeals the rules on the Chapter Stability Reserve, in line with the Government's 50 percent increase in the general reserve, the so-called extraordinary government reserve, and all of them, to increase budget security due to international financial and economic turbulence. It amends the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and the Act on Parliament for technical reasons, the exact content of which will be brought before this House together with a proposal to amend it. In any case, the proposal will also be a major amendment to the provision. [[13.30]] The proposal amends the time limit provided for in the Act on the Restoration of the Protection of Protected Natural Areas for the acquisition of land in private ownership, thus extending to 2022. It also amends the Act on waste and the qualification of waste management public service activities by establishing the conditions under which the Government decree on the tasks and powers of the members of the government will be transferred to the Minister responsible for innovation and technology for public management of waste management. It amends the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, the Law on the Electronic Information Security of State and Local Government Bodies, by extending the deadline for the establishment of physical and electronic security conditions for the protection of national classified information and the conditions for electronic information security of public and municipal bodies by one year. The World Heritage Act, which sets out the rules of procedure in which the holder of ownership rights can take the necessary measures to enforce the priority cultural heritage protection and conservation aspects, including through the restructuring and dismantling of state-owned property, is amended. The law on national assets is being amended. In line with the amendment of the World Heritage Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister's Office, in order to preserve cultural and natural values for future generations, the law will be amended so that the state will manage its property, regardless of the change in value or the reduction of its value, in such a way as to ensure the survival of those values. This amendment proposal also contains a fundamental provision. And the law on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning of civil society organisations is amended. Accordingly, it amends, with regard to the possible control of the National Cooperation Fund, the condition that the management of the Fund can only be a central budgetary body under the control of the Minister above the Fund and, in terms of organ character, dissolves the limitation to the central fiscal organ type. The other amendments contained in the draft legislation have already been indicated by the Secretary of State. For my part, on the basis of the listed proposed amendments, as a package of measures, I consider the regularity, legality and future enforceability of the 2019 budget to be stable and safe. I call on this House to support the bill during the discussion, negotiation, debate and later in the course of its adoption. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-94	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's the better one's turn. Here they indicated that two Members were going to give the keynote speaker's speech. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2018-06-29-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we are looking at a salad law, which is repeated every year. It comes from the nature of it, by the way. I'd like to talk primarily about what I think is missing out on, and I think it's necessary. I would like to present my own party's professional position. I have already formulated the need for countercyclical economic policy in the keynote speech of the budgetary debate. I would also like to do so here, and I would ask Mr Secretary of State to convey our observations to Minister, either on the basis of what has been said in the budget debate or on the basis of what has just been said. We are genuinely and seriously concerned that Hungary is not pursuing countercyclical economic policy. Now we have economic activity, we are doing well throughout Europe, the economy is also on Hungary's target markets. Hungary, however, does not reserve, and it is rapidly spending European Union money. Of course, in the short term, this produces more impressive economic growth data than usual, and the government is heating the economy. At the same time, the central bank is also pursuing a rather loose monetary policy. We are concerned that the economic crisis may occur, and I am afraid that there will be little to do with the loss of helicopter money, as reported by the European Union and the Fed's stimulus packages. I also think it is important that it is a good and eligible objective that the government is essentially trying to reduce taxes on labour and that it is doing so at the expense of taxes on consumption. We agree on this, of course, but it is important to see that tax incentives have been granted over the past period, which I believe was unnecessary. This was what reached the major companies specifically, the level of corporate tax was reduced by the government to a single digit. This was a step that I believe was unnecessary, meaning unnecessary budget relaxation. This money could have been much more useful elsewhere, especially for small businesses. But we also need to explain how the taxation of banks has been changed by your government. The bank tax of 0,5 per cent of the balance sheet total was reduced by the government to 0.21%. This has been a significant burden relief for the banks, and I believe it is unnecessary. After all, the financial institutions made a record profit of HUF 694 billion last year, this year's first quarter's profits of HUF 160 billion, which are, of course, post-tax results. Here, too, it is important to see that there is no need for the government to release the tax press in these areas. Not for Hungarian people, not for Hungarian small businesses, which are otherwise very difficult and lack of capital, but for banks and the largest companies. At the same time, I consider it very important that a differentiated tax policy is finally established in Hungary. The tax creates a source of Community expenditure, but it also has a number of other roles. Jobbik has repeatedly urged that the function of supporting production should also appear in the Hungarian tax system. Therefore, there should be beneficiaries, for example, of companies working in industry, agriculture or research and development within the tax system. These are strongly supported by the government, either in a sectorial way or on the basis of the size of the plant, making sure that these tax incentives serve to strengthen and keep Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises on their feet as far as possible. In the same way, we would have thought it very important and expected, of course, both in the Finance Act and in the Salad Law before us, the emergence that the country's dependent economic situation would finally be eliminated by the government, or at least to make preparations for it. What am I thinking? The fact that, in Hungary, we only realise labour income thanks to the significant overweight of foreign businesses established here, capital income is hardly generated in Hungary. However, international long-term experience shows that countries that are truly successful and prosperous can be those where substantial capital income is generated in addition to labour income. However, what I see is that the government has not changed in recent years, the only success is that Lőrinc Mészáros has created the largest hotel empire in Eastern Central Europe. However, we know that this is not a purely market-based performance, but rather thanks to a close, friendly relationship with the Prime Minister. I am therefore concerned that Hungary has not been able to stand on its own feet in the past period, and that the policy measures that channel Hungarian companies into international value chains with the highest possible added value have not been taken. Unfortunately, these steps have been kept to themselves in the last few years, and have been largely absent. There are, of course, positive elements of the bill. Jobbik expressed its support for this fundamental law amendment in the context of an attempt to amend the basic laws of Parliament, which Jobbik has so often criticized and held in connection with the settlement quota, namely the compulsory resettlement quota. [[13.40]] We have now achieved this important goal. We consider this to be our own result, of course. It is important to point out why we considered this a harmful construction for Hungary. First of all, as a national party, we cannot agree that Hungary will betray the possibility of settling here for money to be happy, unhappy, virtually anyone who has enough money to add it for a temporary period of time, and then bring his family here and settle here. We did not agree with this, as it is a serious breach of the security of Hungarian people. We believe that this is not economically beneficial to Hungary, because, as several studies have already shown, returns on settlement bonds were higher than that which would otherwise have been reported by a market-based public debt financing to Hungary. We also considered it important for the settlement bonds to cease, because we saw that the government also created an institution seriously offensive to Hungary's national security when Antal Rogán once appeared under the arm with a Paksameta at the meeting of the Economic Committee and had Parliament accept the possibility of selling settlement bonds. It was important to point out that this is also a measure that violates our security, because for example, one of the last residence bonds was a notary in the territory of the state of Iraq. In the territory of a state in which the Islamic State, with advanced military technology, owned significant territories, had war against others, and practically the Hungarian government, we all know that there is no possibility, just as the Hungarian secret services and law enforcement agencies have no real opportunity to scan and monitor people from there. A significant part of this could also result in criminals entering Hungary and, where appropriate, having a good relationship with either the head of government or other members of the government. So I would like to ask the government not only to be led out now, but to ensure once and for all that this settlement policy is not only for your government or anyone else to have the opportunity to return it. I would like to add this to my time frame for one last thought about the institution of cafeteria, which is not affected by this bill, but I would have considered it very important if the government had not removed the cafeteria but provided for its expansion. In Hungary, when we are constantly talking about continuing challenges both in terms of the skills and mobility of the labour force, there are ongoing problems, I would have considered it important to have the possibility of broadening the scope of benefits outside the wage area, providing significant tax incentives, as I believe that it could and should have been greatly improved in this area. I am saddened to see that the government is using measures of a more restrictive nature in these areas, and this is in fact an obstacle to Hungarian economic growth and hinders Hungary's rise. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-96	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-06-29-97	Mr President, Dear House, In addition to budgetary debates, the salad law on the basis of which the budget is founded usually hides in the shadows, but is more important. In this case, we really have to acknowledge that this management of countless non-linked areas is absolutely justified, and it is very difficult for the opposition lead speaker who is trying to touch everything. I am not trying to do this, but I would like to achieve meaningful government responses on a few issues where I believe that discourse makes sense at all, and that there are common professional foundations that can achieve meaningful answers. However, we cannot avoid the basic questions that are still to be answered in connection with the establishment bond scheme, as this is the case in this proposal; I would add that with a huge delay, i.e. a very big delay compared to the justified one. There have already been problems with the justification for the introduction of the bond scheme itself. After all, according to government statements at the time, there was an emergency situation with regard to the country's financial situation which justified additional funds. After looking at the bond structure and its data, however, we find that just a few months after the launch of the issue, we have reached a situation where simply market-based financing has become cheaper than what Hungary has achieved through the so-called bond facility. As we look at the whole structure, we see that the Hungarian budget has suffered a loss of some 17.5 billion by the fact that this construction even existed in this form. Intermediaries, supposedly government-friendly brokerage companies, have obtained more than HUF 150 billion brokerage fees, and they have pocketed this. I think that with Mr Secretary of State, who has given correct answers to the questions during the budgetary debate, we can both agree that, in the case of a scheme where a company with a background in the Cayman Islands conveys a significant part of the customers, at least there are signs of questioning, at least questions to be answered, and without any bad intentions, the question arises whether this loss of 17 billion is worth to Hungary from a purely economic approach, the loss of the 150 billion-billion brokerage commission in fact, because its budgetary impact has not been positive. We also see that while there was no unconditional and elementary need for the bonding, of the 20,000 customers, family members are not included, so for the sake of fairness, I am not talking about rejected family members, but a system where 20 out of 20 thousand claimants, customers, are on the brink of thinking. After all, running on international wanted lists alone does not, in my view, amount to national security screening. On the other hand, the right of establishment would require further changes in this respect, since in Hungary it has become practically a hallway for citizenship, so there are very few cases where, after a five-year term, there would be serious difficulties for those who wish to obtain citizenship, while this does not necessarily have to be the case. It's not like that all over the world. So we do not necessarily have to move towards a Panamanian model, where they actually expect people to become citizens even if they have nothing to do with the host country. Hungary has no such intention, nor can it have any obligation to introduce it, nor must its intention to accept it be without conditions. At least I refuse any such endeavor. I must also say that in terms of cafeteria, I think and I am pleased that there is a prepared secretary of state in this room, because I am counting on his answers - that one of the financial tricks of the decade has been formulated by the government in terms of leading out and narrowing the cafeteria methods, as what economic processes are in the background? The government very much wants and likes to show that wages are increasing in Hungary, typically referring to real wages, and, as a result of its own government performance, it tends to claim that this increase in wages, which I have otherwise supported, has actually appeared in certain sectors in the last year, for example. At the same time, I believe that this increase is not the result of the government's smart and thought-out economic policy at all, but in sectors affected by labour shortages, it was simply a necessity that, if companies wanted to continue their activities and to employ anyone at all, the price must have been paid. However, if labour market reproduction is not given, therefore, there are continuous shortages, either a significant part of these companies can move their activities to another country or reorganise their activities to other market sectors, and in the worst case they can suspend this activity, so that, in the long term, no predictable conditions for employment are expected to exist or that the change or increase in wages is maintained. [[13.50]] If we look strictly at the sectors that are affected by government activity, we can conclude that, as far as the public sector is concerned, freezing constituents are more likely to be found, so it becomes clear that where, say, ten years ago there has not been a substantial shift within the public sector, we can issue a negative certificate of government performance. I also have to say, indeed, when, in terms of cafeteria, the government says that it narrows down this system of possibilities, it suggests that the employer will sit down with the employee to conclude a new agreement that this amount will be included in the basic wage for the release of the cafeteria system. This is what the Government of Hungary expects. What can be communicated next? In fact, the government did not have to spend a HUF to increase the wages of these workers, but the integration of the derived cafeteria elements into the basic wage makes it clear that they will increase their basic wages statistically. At the same time, there are no positive and constructive market processes, but there is a lead-off. If, as an employee concerned, we count on an average of 88,000 a year, and this, let's say, will be incorporated into the basic wage as a derived cafeteria element, the Government of Hungary can say with the greatest breast width that the basic wages have indeed increased at a serious level in Hungary, and it will not have to or will not explain that productive market processes are not behind this. There is much more to talk about in connection with this salad law, such as the fact that there is no typical multiplier effect behind government interventions, forms of investment that are constantly being forced to do so, and the wide range of opportunities, such as, for example, the multiplicator effect system of a public housing program, how the invested budget forints could return within a few years, not only financially, but also in the image of young people remaining in Hungary, in the image of children born in Hungary, who might not be born in the London residences of emigrated families, would not be socialised there, parents would not be in a position to attempt to pass on the basically foreign context of Hungarian social patterns to the child from whom it is questionable to become a self-conscious Hungarian citizen in that alien environment. It would be a very big mistake to blame all these processes on the families concerned, because there are coercion conditions here. Many people are forced to leave Hungary, especially because the remnant of the social safety net seems to be fading, and therefore Jobbik's amendments and proposals always aim at the restoration of the social protection network by a national party in the modern sense. In this we not only ask, but we expect the government's partnership, first by answering the questions raised. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-29-98	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2018-06-29-99	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State said in his introduction that we are talking or discussing here today a salad law that is directly linked to the budget, or at least indirectly. Of course, it depends on how we look at it, because everything is linked to the budget, because everything requires money. But just for the sake of color, there are no recordings at government meetings, and I can't suddenly link this to the budget, either indirectly or directly. One thing is certain that it will be much harder to look back at what happened at a government meeting as a historian, but it may be precisely the aim of the government, so that it is less possible to recapture what decision was made and in what form. Since this is a salad law and concerns a wide variety of issues, Mr Secretary of State also said, if I remember correctly, that it contains 42 amendments, so not linked, but let me also highlight a few issues. The first is what Mr Secretary of State said in his contribution, this is actually the reorganization of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in the context, as you have said from the perspective of the new Ministry. I fully agree that productivity needs to be increased in Hungary, efficiency needs to be increased, and this would also greatly increase our competitiveness. We have talked about this several times in committee. It is also a perfectly correct objective that Hungarian added value should be increased, as we have said it several times, and I myself have said in various debates that Hungary cannot be a assembly plant. There is a need for industries with high knowledge intensity. These are the industries that can lead the Hungarian economy in the long term and can indeed provide a sustainable development path. Moreover, these are sectors where wage competition is, of course, not the first, and this is not a last question for the Hungarian people in the long term. I do not understand exactly, however, and it would not be a problem if Mr Secretary of State would discuss this in his answers at the end, why these objectives can only be achieved if they are done with such a very strong centralisation. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences has so far allocated resources, to say that its work has not been questioned by anyone, I have not read any articles about it, I have not read any studies or impact studies, I have not seen any criticisms from government agencies, even verbally, of this work. So what founded it? Why do we need this strong centralization? Why don't we trust an independent institution? Is there any impact assessment that you say that strong centralisation will certainly help you achieve the goals you have mentioned in a more effective, faster, better quality? I think that, in many cases, government operations, if I only think about European Union funds, when OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office examines 29 projects and programmes, and if I remember it well at 20, then it does not seem to me that the centralised tendering system that you operate is effective. Moreover, even institutions or projects that should carry out the audit have been canceled or criticized. Therefore, for my part, I have greater confidence in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and those working there than with any newly established ministry. In English, what was this statement based on? Not to mention, this has also caused a serious international reaction, and the government has received a lot of criticism about it. As I saw it, a number of similar foreign institutions stood up for this type of activity and integrity of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. So even for foreign policy or political reasons, I do not believe that this was the right decision. For our part, we cannot in any way support this type of government intention, especially if there are bad news and rumors about how the Hungarian Academy of Sciences actually receives this measure as a kind of punishment, because they did not stand up well for the various hate campaigns of the government. The other issue, which I would like to raise, has been partly discussed by my better fellow Member, the government, had an organised resettlement programme for economic migrants. This cost Hungarian taxpayers relatively much money. We're talking about 20,000 people here. It is perhaps important to state thus after the campaign and before the campaign, i.e. before the elections to the European Parliament - that only one party installed migrants in Hungary, this was Fidesz. There were refugees among them, about 2,000 people, and there were economic migrants to use your words. They were installed here with the residency bond program. The numbers have already been mentioned. Perhaps even it is possible that my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, underestimated the loss suffered by the Hungarian budget, as the loss of interest is close to 20 billion, and at that time we have not yet talked about the cost of administration and much more paperwork and control of Hungarian government administrations. But it is true that, if I remember correctly, the first five-year term expires at the end of this year, which, if all goes well, means a repayment obligation of HUF 30-33 billion to the Hungarian government. So I couldn't interpret it as a success in any way other than the fact that there were companies that actually made a lot of money on this. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, because this has also been the subject of various news whether you are planning to re-introduce this bond programme in any other form. Because I understand that you're pulling it out now, that's very right, that should have been done a long time ago, but is the government planning to launch any new program that restarts this bond program with similar parameters on similar terms, either by investing or by changing any other criteria? So is a similar program coming back to Parliament again? [[14.00]] Another interesting question, which appears in this salad law, was also discussed in more articles, which is the personal salary of various ministers. Here is an interesting wording about the fact that the Minister's salary can reach the annual income of the managers of the background institutions or companies he supervises. This will make it pretty clear that you will not be subject to or will not apply to ministers in any way to anyone more than the previous HUF 2 million announced by the Prime Minister, because they are already brazen sums of money that I have quoted your use of the word. Now it seems that these amounts are no longer brazen, and indeed a minister's salary can reach up to HUF 5 million on the basis of the Prime Minister's decision. In fact, to add a little more absurdity, if I understood it correctly, but then I may not have interpreted the text of the law precisely in this regard, depending on who determines the salary of the heads of the background institutions, in fact, the limit for the payment of ministers may be the starry sky, because if the minister establishes a higher salary for the head of one of his background institutions or the head of an economic company, then his salary can reach it from there. So, in this sense, he can directly influence his own salary, even if he is sure that the Prime Minister has the common sense of how much money he gives or how much he pays his ministers. So, in Hungarian, I also don't feel that this is such a strong, grounding provision that we couldn't have survived tomorrow without, or that the Hungarian budget couldn't have existed in its involvement in the next period of the year. Then there is one more thing, which is also interesting in the sense that it draws attention to an anomaly, and I would like to say a few more words about it. This is the distinction between the court and the prosecutor's office and the distinction within the prosecutor's office, because if I read the proposal correctly, the prosecution will be able to raise a 7-15 percent wage increase. What I don't understand is why the county prosecutors get hurt again. I understand that you're sure there's a greater burden on the prosecutors at the Metropolitan Attorney General's Office, so if I understand correctly, they get the higher pay supplement, the 15 percent. But if someone works in the same district as a prosecutor and the good Lord beat him by being born in the country and not working at the Metropolitan Attorney General's Office, then why is he worth less as a prosecutor than he is working in the capital? You always say that you work for the Hungarian countryside. It would also be worth not making such a difference in terms of salaries, so double the difference, but perhaps rural prosecutors should receive more money once and not those working in the capital. That's a question within the DA's office. The other is what the courts have failed to do, so why the courts are constantly missing out on this type of increase. Of course, there is an explanation in the mind of an opposition Member, but I am sure that you will resolve this, Mr Secretary, because the courts have not yet been brought under the control of the government, so they must be punished somehow to understand the lesson, and therefore they are constantly left out of all types of wage development. This could also be a sort of regulation of this sector, which is in no way acceptable, since the courts are normally independent institutions. Moreover, there are very long studies of their load, European Union, OECD comparison, or even Hungarian impact studies clearly show that the Hungarian courts are under enormous strain, in many cases they have difficulty keeping deadlines. So it would be very timely for this type of wage arrangement to take place there too. There is still a lot to talk about, but I think my colleagues will also say these things, because from the social field through labour law, there are many issues in this salad law, but I must also indicate, because of the problems I have mentioned, that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not normally support this law, and will not accept it in any form. Thank you very much for your attention. [[László Varju and Antal Csárdi applaud.]]
u2018-06-29-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2018-06-29-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Well, I'm not gonna reduce your pain. What you have done here in these days is a law describing the exact opposite of your personal creed, so it is found here in this salad, so life is not simple. In addition, we have to say this several times here, that, indeed, rules have been introduced in this, that are being made with proposals that cannot be supported, and if there is one among them, then I will give you an example, even if it were only one, it would not be possible to support all of this. I think it is quite obvious that the Democratic Coalition thinks in its budget, in its value world, in its value choice quite differently than you did in this budget. This was also evident in the previous debate, what we had carried on in the budget. There are a lot of things that need to be done differently from this point of view, I think. I'll give you an example. If I just look at what's going on in the settlement policy, then I could say it in a simple way: good-bye to the guns. Fidesz is saying good-bye to a very important tool that gives it a very serious opportunity or opportunity, and it is very difficult to part with it. But let's be honest, the retreat will also be very sad, because what can come next is the uncertainty and risk that this is, by the way, and not only the damage that my fellow Members have already referred to here, but what is next, can be added to this, and it is not easy to defend. I am also saying this because the increasing risks we have put forward here at the budget make it very clear that from 2020 and then we have moved a little further from the current period to the foundations of the budget of the country moving towards the peripheral of the European Union in this proposal, where competitiveness does not otherwise improve and the image of the Hungarian economy that is lagging behind from the region is shown instead of what you are stressing here. Several examples of this can be found here from this law, which has been presented in this form. Which is very exciting, and it's been known that the visitors' centers of the former Folk Stadium and the new stadium have been handed over recently, and the country is burning in stadium fever. There is a huge difference in the fact that every citizen's stadium construction program, which is already over 400 billion forints, 33 stadiums have been built, almost half of which will cost us to watch and admire here. I don't doubt it's going to be a nice construction, but I'm 100 percent sure it should have been spent on someone else. And to ensure that there is no doubt, I am sure that health and education are the future, in the everyday life of our health, and should have been spent in this area. That's what I referred to when I was talking about the difference in value. The rejection of the bill, if there were only one element of what they were doing to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in this form, where one of the commentaries here is that I learned in the elevator what was happening, not just the method, but the way and what they are doing to eliminate scientific freedom in this way, is unacceptable. It would be enough for this one reason that we reject this law one at a time. We will do so in the end, in this law, and in the end we will reject it. What is certainly worth mentioning, and I may even leave a positive example at the end, so that I may not just mention something that is expressly condemnable and condemnable, but I still think that I can refer to the value choice here again, to the possibility of increasing the salary of ministers. This is for you, you thought this was the way to do it. [[14.10]] I find it unacceptable that you, as political leaders dealing with public money and public affairs, exclude the possibility that the background of your decisions may later be examined from a historical point of view. The removal of this document is, in my opinion, unacceptable. Thus, there is no way to know what is happening, which in this way proves that there is really only one important thing for the government, that it remains somewhat documented, that the results of the government's decisions on power are recorded, that it is considered to be indifferent to the whole point of view. I could also say that democracy was not circumscribed here, but that democracy was tripped here by you when you made this presentation, and you came here to the Parliament with such a proposal. However, as far as the characteristics of the salad law are concerned, at least one thing that I consider to be usable and eligible is the positive element that can be supported in relation to social security pensions, which is to terminate the insurance relationship for the purpose of establishing a pension, there is the one-day problem. This has caused a lot of trouble for everyone. There would be one more thing to consider here, and that is that, until entitlement to care is established, what happens, because in many cases, when the date is over, you lose all the opportunities or you do not get the opportunity that you would otherwise need. To sum up, there is much more wrong with this bill than there is any way to make it, and we cannot accept it. If you could do something good for him, and otherwise for those affected by home care, if you wanted to help in this circle, I would recommend it with respect, because you might find a solution to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-06-29-102	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2018-06-29-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, As usual, the laws on the foundation of the budget were presented to the Parliament in a so-called salad law. They should normally be such technical, tax-technical amendments, and then I'm going to add what I'm missing from them in an extraordinary way. But in recent years, we have become accustomed to dealing with these salad laws with extreme caution when you submit them, because in these very elegant ways, they bring in the very important proposals that determine the future of our country, but in general they do not necessarily want to boast about it. We are now seeing such a salad law, and in this salad law they are specifically attacking the freedom of education and, of course, of course, the freedom of scientific life, because with this rule, they would take away the independence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, with this rule they would introduce so that politics would govern autonomous scientific life. I think I shouldn't even add a lot to this because it is so outrageous and so unacceptable that there are no good words to express it. The government is under systematic attack on the education system. He did so, on the one hand, by submitting a budget to this House, which clearly showed that he did not even bother to keep the cost of education at least in real terms. It's amazing to see and experience this. And now there's this other half of this story, that basically they're einstantizing scientific life. We can now see that Fidesz does not understand 21st century. This is the main litmus paper of the century, the kind of stepdaughter he considers education to be. The national cooperation system, by the way, knows a lot of such stepdads, but I think that our education should definitely not be here. The government would now modify the funding system of the MTA on the pretext that it has managed to come up with some good words, which turned out during the budget debate that they are not good with these terms, but sound good: innovation, high added value jobs. But we see in the proposals and we see between the lines, in the budget proposal, that they continue to support the way and the type of vocational training that subordinates education and scientific results to the cheap labour force. Yet, the best way to build a just society is to support education and science. Higher education means not only higher income, fellow Members, but also more open heads of people, and a better willingness to cooperate for everyone who participates in such an education system. And they will be able to apply it later in the labour market, both in civilian life. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, Both of you who have honored the debate, which I thank you for. [[Happy István's fingers show three.]] Three, I'm sorry. My fellow Member points out that the three of you have honoured the debate. I apologize for the mistake. [[Happy István: You're alone too! Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] But here we stand, by nationalising the research support of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Orbán government intends to take another step towards full state control. With this withdrawal, science punishes independent scientists who have shown in black and white in recent years that Hungary is going in the wrong direction, its economy is unsustainable, and if your society continues, your politics will be torn apart. The LMP is convinced that Hungary's success leads through excellent education and high value-added jobs. You don't have to withdraw the money, you have to put as much in it as possible. And I think that this is true of the entire education system, the entire budget, and this is specifically true of the funding of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Because the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is not the enemy, but the most important partner in this task. If the government and the governing parties not only use innovation and the creation of high added value jobs as slogans, they will vote in favour of the LMP amendment proposal and restore the funding autonomy of the MTA. Dear House, The bill establishing the budget also includes amendments to the Act on Hungary's economic stability. Technically, following the key speeches already made by my fellow Members, it would be enough to just say that Eximbank, because due to the debt rating of Eximbank, amends this part to allow the government to change the value of the previous year without compromising the sovereign debt ratio at the initiative of the Minister for Public Finance. The government does not want to accept that this would increase the level of government debt by 2 percent by assigning Eximbank to public finances. The LMP takes the view that Eximbank is a captive financial institution that does not function for purpose and therefore cannot be supported to communicate and mislead the government's statistical data in its own interests. Following the adoption of the 2013 amendment, the lending by Eximbank increased greatly and, well, what an interesting, dear fellow Members, these lending arrangements developed as follows: all of them were almost Fidesz-near entrepreneurs. [[14.20]] It is a well-known fact that several companies that do not even export-import have received loans from the bank, so they have received a loan of HUF 16.5 billion from István Garancsi to build the quarter they dreamed of in the Kopaszi dam. Or this is where Andrew Vajna received a loan of HUF 6.7 billion to buy TV2. And if someone is watching a newscast today on TV2, then you can see why the state indirectly financed this purchase. Let us not talk about the fact that the former CEO of Eximbank, formerly Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, is a suspect in criminal proceedings for the rental contracts of the financial institution. The Eximbank is all a wasteful money grabber, and the interest compensation is essentially used to finance the projects of the Fidesz Moonyard, and this is outrageous. And speaking of corruption, my dear fellow Member, you are outraged; believe me, so am I - if it is corruption and if it is money-sucking, the government has submitted a proposal for the release of settlement bonds. We know exactly what this is about. It has also been said in today's debate, and I promise you that it will be said many more times that you have brought foreign citizens here for good money, without any national security control, without any substantive protection, risking the safety of the people here. [[Happy to István:]] Press the button, I'll listen to it, I promise. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He is not brave enough. Defiance on the opposition side.]] If my fellow Members have finished, I would like to continue. There is a result of months of pressure. In the case of settlement bonds, our politicians, opposition politicians, let us say, have criticised this type of activity. The thorough work of the shadow committee we initiated, the investigative journalists, put pressure on the government that made it unsuitable for them to maintain the construction. Therefore, the government wanted to eliminate the outsourcing of the sale of the bonds in complete secrecy. Let's conclude: the government lost HUF 18 billion to Hungarian taxpayers. Twice as much as the support of home care workers could be raised to the minimum wage level. Twice as much, fellow Members. I think that says everything about the Fidesz-KDNP government. The entire residency bond business poses a serious security risk, and therefore it is necessary to prevent the program's documents from being removed and to account for Rogán offshore companies that made HUF 150 billion on the business. 150 billion forints! We're discussing the budget today, and we're going to discuss it yesterday and tomorrow, but we know exactly how much money this is. 150 billion forints! There is no guarantee that offshore companies will not disappear along with the sums to be recovered by the State from taxpayers' money. Which could be at the rate of 100 million this year. If this happens, and the bond buyers would not sue the Hungarian state for God's compensation, then this construction is a threefold threat to Hungarian taxpayers. The settlement bond business is similar to the oil-blowning scandals of the 1990s, because it implements money laundering through public participation. So we will initiate the immediate withdrawal of all the permits issued, because Hungary's security is the first Commissioner who remembers this sentence, and this is a very important sentence - so we will initiate the immediate withdrawal of all the permits issued, and we will stop them from removing the documents of the bond program after six years, and Rogán's offshore companies will have to be accounted for. Dear House, It's a matter of raising money in this salad law. Nothing can prove this better than the government's ability to bring ministers' salaries to an unspeakable level. A new rule can be used to establish the salaries of government members, so the Minister can earn as much as the head of the state company under his ministry. Several state CEOs' salaries were put on the ceiling at the height of HUF 5 million. All of this, with the basic salary for practically ten years unchanged, HUF 38 650. Once again, the salary is HUF 38 650. But in this salad law, you would make it possible for ministers close to their hearts to earn up to HUF 5 million. This is social justice, please respectfully. Mysterious things also appear in this proposal, which are good direction indicators, I add, in terms of the unfriendly relationship between government and transparency. It is proposed that government meetings cannot be recorded, and I think that this tells me everything that needs to be said about government policy. In secret, under the cover of night, without discussion, you have to push through ideas with strength. That's what Fidesz-KDNP's policy is all about. Dear House, I also said in the general debate on the budget, but I also have to stress in the amendment of the laws on which the budget is based that this budget does not put the Hungarian economy on its feet, and because of the upcoming crisis recognised by the government, this would be more necessary than ever before. This package of laws on which the budget is based should be about how they stop unnecessary investments without delay, how they switch to investments where the percentage of Hungarian suppliers is 100 percent, and where 100 percent, my dear fellow Member, does not necessarily mean Lőrinc Mészáros. We still do not see how the problem of the labour shortage that strangles all sectors will be solved, because the current unsustainable and unfair tax system remains. We need higher wages, a fairer social system, and I would add that in this package of laws we should find the concept of a housing programme that could provide a real and meaningful response to housing and which is now practically urged by all opposition parties outside the Fidesz-KDNP. This budget will continue to lead Hungary on the unsustainable path on which it started with the administration of Fidesz, and it is precisely a dead end, since it will only increase the social divide in the long term. The salad law before us will only confirm this process, so it is outrageous, but this bill cannot be supported. You can only be outraged, not supported. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-06-29-104	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2018-06-29-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание. Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow the T/629, which established the central budget for 2019. I would like to express our views on nationalities in Hungary. The foundational bill names the nationalities, namely the national governments, in four stages, concerning 67, 69, 72 and 74, as follows. 67. § The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 51 The following paragraph 4 of Section 4 is added: The Government may, in a regulation, consider that, in the case of a beneficiary of a company which is not an account holder outside the treasury and which is owned directly or indirectly by a majority of the State, budgetary aid granted from EU funds and non-EU funds for development purposes as defined in the Government's Regulation may be paid only to a payment account held by the Treasury. The beneficiary may only carry out expenditure for the purpose of the budget support from a payment account held at the Treasury, which may not be used temporarily for other purposes, in particular securities purchase, interest income realisation. (a) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Paragraph 4 of CXCV 2011 on public finances. Law 79. § 4c is replaced by the following: if the local government, local self-government, association 84. According to paragraph 1 of Article 84 of the Treasury, your payment account is not managed by the Treasury. Paragraph 1 of Article 51 shall apply to a payment account under paragraph 1 of this Article. The Treasury may hold a payment account for the receipt of budgetary aid pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4. [[14.30]] Seventy-two. § 2 says:. If the reporting agent (a) provides information which is not relevant to the subject matter of the reporting, or misrepresents or (b) does not fulfil its obligation to report it or late, the Treasury shall impose a fine as specified in the decree of the Government. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And then I would like to say a few words about the fine, which is included in the amendment: (a) if the reporting agent is a local government or a budgetary body under the authority of the local government, which provides for the performance of its planning, management, control, financing, reporting and reporting tasks, a joint municipal office vis-à-vis the local government of the seat of the common municipal office, (b) if the reporting agent is a local government not subject to point (a) or a budgetary body under the control of the local government, (c) if the reporting agent is an association, a local government, and a budgetary body managed by them, the managing body of the budgetary body providing the planning, management, control, financing, reporting and reporting tasks, (d) otherwise the reporting agent is to be imposed against the reporting agent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Point 74 is replaced by the following: § 2 says:.3 The direct or indirect majority-owned company of the State, which is not a local government, local government, association or account holder outside the treasury, if the amount of the support granted to it from European sources exceeds HUF 50 million, transfers the unused amount of the budget subsidies from European Union sources to the payment account held outside the Treasury until 30 September 2018. Thereafter, the beneficiary may carry out expenditure for the purpose of the budget support only from the payment account held at the Treasury. The sponsor shall verify the fulfilment of the obligation to transfer, and shall apply the consequences of the aid unduly used in the event of non-compliance with the request. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The sections listed show that the offices of national authorities are subject to increased responsibilities and reporting obligations. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. In addition to the current amendment to the Act, the concept of budget support would require reflection and clarification, because national and local national authorities and national minority organisations have been struggling for years with the increase of bureaucratic burdens linked to subsidies classified as budget support. In parallel with the decrease in the number of local government apparatuss, it is increasingly difficult to comply with the provisions of the national minority law that the provision of tasks related to the budget of the local government falls within the responsibility of the apparatus of the local government. In view of the fact that the majority of the national minority grants in the draft budget for 2019 are set out in Annex XI to Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. It was included in the heading Prime Minister's Office, as were the other sources managed in this chapter, such as the titles of ecclesiastical and cross-border support, and therefore the national minority grants, the operational and task-based support of local minority self-governments and their institutions, as well as the operational support of the national minority press. 1. Paragraph 1 (14), newly installed point (n), the exception shall be determined in a circle as follows: 1. § for the purposes of the law, point 14: Budget support, except for the financial funds of social security, is provided in cash from the central sub-scheme of public finances without consideration, not including (n) nationality grants, operational and task-based support for local minority self-governments, national nationality authorities and their institutions and the national minority press. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 368/2011 on the implementation of the Public Finance Act Government Decree No 93. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 requires national national minority authorities to prepare a report on budgetary use and submit an invoice summary. This regulation increases red tape for national minority authorities, as accounting documents are already recorded in the commitment register and in the accounts. Annex 5 on reporting and reporting on the implementation of the Public Finance Act provides for Article 169. § 3 and Article 170 Pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 5 of Section 2 and 5 of the Hungarian Treasury, the addition by electronic means of the complete ledger's statement produced in the data editing added by the Treasury from the accounting system supporting the data. In this case, a double administration will take place if hundreds of millions of appropriations are broken down into almost a few forints. This dual administration increases the time spent on the task of the national authorities and reduces the effectiveness of the meaningful task. According to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the solution to the above-mentioned problem would be to extend the rules on local authorities to national minority self-governments. This regulation would ensure consistency between the conditions for granting support to national minority governments and local authorities, as set out in the Annex to the Central Budget Act. The increase in institutional tasks requires an increase in the number of staff and additional source insurance. National national and local authorities maintain institutions, such institutions providing information on economic, labour, accounting and other administrative and economic tasks in respect of the institutions by the authorities run by the national government. In recent years, compliance with legal requirements has changed, i.e. maintaining legal operation has made and justified an increase in the number of employees, which also requires an increase in resources. Some national authorities act as trustees for specific properties. The municipalities have to pay a trust fee to MNV Zrt. for the use of those buildings, which puts a very heavy burden on the budget of the national municipalities. For the year 2018, it would be possible for the State to provide or provide the resources for the trust fee in the form of individual aid. The aim would be to incorporate the amount of the trust fee into the national authorities' budgets. This is why we consider it essential to increase the budgetary support of national minority self-governments by at least 20%, as my German-speaking colleague, nationality representative, mentioned in his speech on the budget. CXCIX 2011 on public finances. Law 1 lists local authorities and national self-governments in a general government subsystem, so regardless of whether they are local or local national authorities, they are considered to have the same status. However, national minority self-governments are entitled to free use by kogens legislation at most, while local self-governments, like the State, are granted ownership and trust rights. Following the same logic, it would also be important for national authorities to be able to take ownership of at least strategically important properties where they perform public tasks, such as kindergarten, school education and education, so that, in respect of property refurbished by funds provided to national minorities, the undesirable but still possible situation of termination of the trust contract with a notice period of 30 days would not arise. [[14.40]] There are cases where new trust contracts have not been signed to date, because the legal risk of a 30-day notice period cannot be assumed responsibly by any institution management. In doing so, however, former contracts which are legally outdated and inadequate to ensure compliance with the present legislative environment remain in force. It should be stressed that in these institutions education and training is carried out in a nationality language which, when the institution, the maintainer, is under an obligation to continue its activities in the long term, upon the start of a public service mission. However, this cannot be imagined without a building. To overcome this uncertain legal situation, the most appropriate solution would be to dispose of the property, not in property management, which the national authorities would also experience as a positive confirmation that a great deal of work and money invested in property refurbished by the use of national resources and the care of a good host would be guaranteed to serve the long-term interests of nationalities. In addition, through the transfer of ownership, national authorities would in practice operate as organisations with the same status as local authorities, as the Public Finance Act assumes. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In summary: T/629 establishing the central budget for 2019 We agree with the amendments to the Hungarian nationalities mentioned in the sections of the legislative proposal No. We would also respectfully ask the rapporteur to consider, consider and take into account the substance of our observations mentioned above. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-29-106	Thank you very much. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2018-06-29-107	Mr President, Dear House, When I pressed the button, I decided to react briefly and modestly to the government's claim regarding the tax system. However, as far as the bank tax is concerned, it is quite simply inexplicable that the previous 0.5 percent rate has fallen to 0.21 percent, while in recent years only 694 billion in record profits have been recorded by the sector which, unfortunately, was neither wanted nor able to involve the government in public burdens. It can be seen that it has apparently burdened this sector with various types of taxes or levies which have been passed on in whole or in part. At the same time, I would be very interested in a government statement of how much of this burden has been paid by Hungarian taxpayers and how much the banking system itself has taken on. Indeed, it can be taken seriously that the intention of the legislator is to pay this burden from among you who are to be burdened by the legislator, but it has been proven, as a whole, that this has not happened and that it is the subject of discussions with regard to the banking sector special tax. At the same time, we see that the justification for reducing the key is at least incomplete or shaky. Therefore, Jobbik's clear proposal is to raise the key of the bank tax back to the previous level, and to check whether the burden is unduly passed on to Hungarian consumers, the Hungarian population or not. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-29-108	Thank you, Congressman. We now have further speeches from our representatives. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is also on the line here for the time being. [[Defiance.]] Then I'll give you the floor again.
u2018-06-29-109	Mr President, Dear House, This is how a single Member expects an answer, reaction, debate, which is a genre in every parliament, by the way. But the thing is, this debate is canceled. Obviously, it can also be seen as a sign of my weakness that I cannot provoke certain kinds of answers, even from competent government secretary of state. I very much hope that we can expect meaningful answers at least in the closing of which the government already knows that I will not have the opportunity to react. It's not a very chivalrous genre for you, but it's really about getting answers, and then both sides can do something about their own weapons systems or their own weapons. I have to say that a short chat with regard to public debt has already taken place, and it is clear that the situation and classification of Eximbank between us have been the subject of debates for years. And since Eximbank's classification has a significant impact on the Hungarian sovereign debt indicators, it may also lead to a 2 percent difference between the value expressed by the government and the fair value, so for my part, I understand the government's intention to delay and delay this confrontation, even for years, as a rhinestones, to provide this situation. But the thing is, we remember in 2010, when the first public debt disputes were triggered by Fidesz and Jobbik's faction. They weren't that sharp, they were more of a professional debate. I have to say that a promise has already been made in the Széll Kálmán plan, which did not speak of an 80% rate, but of a 65-70 percent rate. Even 60 percent promises have been made. And now we find that every year of the Orbán government has seen a huge increase in public debt by a thousand billion in recent years. This is what the Secretary of State is used to respond to with the GDP ratio, which is precisely what the classification of Eximbank, mentioned in the package before us, affects substantially the ratio of GDP to GDP. So what we have to say is that, unfortunately, this government seems to be losing it. Of course, it can show so many results that the foreign exchange debt ratio has decreased not only slightly but in a measurable way, and this is, by the way, a process supported by me. If only such a successful settlement had been for the population, the settlement of foreign exchange credit victims, which was completely ruined by the government, and in a self-destructive way, with the EBRD and the Banking Alliance, left on the side of the road the people who had not left on the side of the road would not have received the alarms about their eviction. The fact is that opposition parties, the various Members, regardless of colour, do not refer to evictions, social disaster, because they would have talked together, or some kind of rainbow coalition would have happened, but because the same types of problems are coming into all of us' reception hours. Probably for the Fidesz congressmen's reception hours, too. For me, this has been confirmed by several people in the parliamentary corridor. I'm not going to name them here because I'm a gentleman, but a number of well-known Fidesz MEPs have confirmed that the credit-damaged, evicted people who expect help are regularly coming to your reception hours, and the Fidesz Members of Parliament are going to spread their arms. Their bosses don't do anything about this problem at government level. I also have to say that the bank tax, the settlement of the transaction fee, so the fact that it is the one on whom the legislator wanted to impose this burden, would not clearly mean the settlement of the Calvary of the creditors. But it is now possible, in the course of the budgetary debate or the underlying debates, to establish a framework under which any surplus at the MNB, such as a German sample, would be combined with a mandatory payment to the budget. So not only in respect of 50 billion dividends, as it has been seen in recent years, that the MNB has paid some of its subpoenas as dividends, otherwise on an optional basis, but also on a compulsory basis, if there is a surplus, it must be paid into the Hungarian budget. In this case, if this had happened, the surplus of hundreds of billions on the foreign exchange credit conversion would be among the lines. A compensation fund could and should be set up, which would, by the way, be or could be used to sort out the housing that has already been in trouble, and this government would still not have been able to return the broken families, the family members who have fled to suicide. So you can't imagine restoring the original condition here. But the pursuit of it, I think, would be expected by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-29-110	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] As no one is applying, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-29-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said several times, the bill establishing the budget sets out 42 legislative amendments. I hear agreement with the majority of the proposals made that the criticisms have been formulated only in respect of a few laws, and that there have also been comments and proposals which are not part of the bill on which the budget is based. [[14.50]] Therefore, I should like to start by saying that, in my view, it is a joyful thing that the overwhelming majority of the motions are not only pro-government but also the opposition groups. On which questions and debates were raised, they deal with issues in the first area which are not part of the bill on which the budget is based. Mr. János Volner said that this budget and the underlying bill do not serve countercyclical economic policy. With this statement, I have to argue strongly, and I think that I am not only arguing with him, but also with the analytical organisations, the international official institutions, because if we look at the draft budget law next year, we see that, thanks to economic growth, the State intends to use additional revenue, if you will, to maintain, to a low deficit, if you will, to reduce public debt more quickly. This anti-cyclical economic policy, and I will go on, was not only formulated by the government in 2019 but, in the so-called outlook on the draft budget law, it intends to continue this disciplined counter-cyclical economic policy until 2022 in order to reduce this sovereign debt. Another point which did not directly affect the bill before you was that the tax system should be subject to changes that would help build up capital incomes. And it was also said that Jobbik criticizes the nine percent of corporate income tax. I think that there is a contradiction between these two statements. After all, corporate income tax is an investment, capital tax. In addition to the fact that the 9 percent rate encourages investment, it also says that if someone invests and returns, and the prospects of the Hungarian economy are good not according to the government, but according to international organisations, so if they achieve a return, they can also realise a profit. I would add that as regards Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, the accumulation of capital is facilitated by the fact that new taxes have emerged, see, kata, kiva, and this accumulation is supported by the fact that the electoral limit of the kiva, i.e. the tax on small enterprises, the special tax threshold of a special tax is substantially increasing in 2019 on the basis of the government's proposal. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát was about the bank tax and then the burden on the banks and the forinting. Indeed, the profitability of the banks has changed significantly, and indeed in 2017 they achieved a very serious profit of around HUF 700 billion. Let us look back on previous years, and see that the consolidation of public finances that has been achieved has been achieved at European level by far with the introduction of the highest bank tax, and the bank tax is still part of the system of public burden-sharing. If we were to ask the banks, they would obviously not share the opinion of the Member, but what I think is important beyond bank tax, and in recent days it has gained a specific topicality, is the forinting of foreign currency loans. And I'm going to mention it after the banks because I'm asking you to take a look at the bank association's profitability data, ask them how much money the owners put in the banks. In addition to the bank's losses, the so-called indirect loss, the amount to be written down from capital, was much higher. I do not feel sorry for the banking sector, but I can only make it factually clear that as a result of the forinting, the owners and the foreign owners of the Hungarian banking system have made billions of euros in capital increases. Please, the owners of the Hungarian banking system were obviously able to make a profit before 2010 and then put very serious money into the banks in the following years. So we have to look at this picture together when we look at the burden on banks, and next year's draft budget law expects that the bank tax will remain and, of course, we hope that the growing economic performances will also be profitable thanks to the expansion of lending, since it is in our long-term interest that a healthy banking sector works. And I'll just add in parentheses that there was a change in the ownership structure. Today, the share of the Hungarian-owned banking sector and banking participation is higher than it was a few years ago. Then, if I may, I would like to talk about another item which is not directly linked to the motion on the basis of the 2019 budget law before you, but which was expressed in Parliament's debate. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said it again here, and I will try to quote it precisely, even if not literally, that the increase in wages is not due to the government's action. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Not entirely.]] If, now, Mr President, you say that you are not in full agreement with this statement, of course, because in a market economy, employers decide on the exact scale of wage increases. Except, as appropriate, the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage, where, if there is no agreement, legislation determines the extent of the increase. But with what was said in the debate on next year's draft budget law, I can no longer agree that the emigration of the labour force in Hungary is the sole cause of the rise in wages that, for example, shows a rise in real wages of more than 10 per cent in one year, in 2017, and then I will not talk about previous years. I say this because businesses, operators, can only raise wages to the extent that it is possible to maintain their profitability while maintaining their survival. And I also claim that, for example, the trialogue wage agreement in 2016 created an opportunity to raise wages that provided cover for these wage increases through the reduction of taxes. So, indeed, government action and parliamentary decisions have a significant role to play in the fact that Hungary has experienced a very significant increase in real wages of around 40 percent over several years in recent years. I would like to turn to one point which, in particular, concerns the bill before this House, namely the payment of ministers. The situation quoted about a hitchhiker was in 2010. Let's face it, though, it's a little different now. Thank God! In the debate on next year's draft budget law, we can talk about the fact that we do not have to deal with a debt crisis immediately with measures; it is not the case that we have to cut a deficit of much more than three per cent; it is not the case that, like many countries in Europe, Hungary has to face recommendations to reduce the number or wages of the public sector. Once again, I note in parentheses: 16 or 17 EU countries reduced public sector numbers and/or wages after 2010. That's not the case. The fact is that, as I said, there has been a substantial increase in wages and the salaries of ministers have been stable for ten years. I think it is unworthy that higher salaries may be made at levels below ministers. And we talked about, in the debate on next year's draft budget law, that there was also a wage increase for government officials. We discussed in which areas of the public sector the wage increases were made. Well, next year's draft budget law also suggested that, for example, law enforcement or defence workers would receive a 50% wage increase. I believe that if we are talking about responsible ministers, from whom the Honourable Parliament, the Party of the Government and the opposition groups expect responsible work, then it is also appropriate to correct the benefits for this responsibility after ten years. And there is an absolute limit on the salary of the leaders of the organisations under the control of ministers, and Prime Minister can decide on the extent to which he determines the salary. [[15.00]] I stress that this is about the adoption of the law or the adoption of the amendment of an option, not automatic increases in salaries. As far as the settlement policy is concerned, once again, we must see that, in addition to God and God, the work of the Parliament, the work of the country as a whole - the situation today is different than it was 7-8 years ago. We can remember, because there was a lot of talk about the crisis here, and ten years ago Hungary collapsed in financial terms on the first wave of economic crisis. We had to go to the IMF, didn't we? In the market sense, no one financed Hungary with traditional instruments. In such a situation, new channels of state funding had to be sought. One of the most important steps at that time was the introduction of retail financing. We can remember where he was, a few percent of the direct public financing within the public debt. Today it's much bigger. Public debt financing has multiplied. This was a very successful measure, since on the other hand the financing costs of the public debt appeared as revenue to the Hungarian population. But we can also remember that after 2010, more than half of our public debt was in foreign currency. For this reason, we had to look for new channels in a foreign currency direction. We have looked at international practices, and with the introduction of the settlement policy, the Parliament has decided to use an instrument that is either a tool or a very similar instrument in Austria, the United Kingdom or Portugal. This was an alternative instrument involving €1.8 billion of resources. At the same time, with this device, we must also see that today, thank God, we do not need to live. This instrument shall no longer be used by the State in the case of tenders after 31 March 2017. On this issue, too, before the Honourable Parliament, it was mentioned several times that I repeat, after 31 March 2017, requests were not accepted by the State. And now we're at another stage when we can decide on the final exit. After all, the state's funding costs are much lower than before, we are in the category recommended for investment by large credit rating agencies, and even if we can see in the past, that, as a result of monetary policy changes, the ECB, the Fed's steps, or international money market waves, the financing of Hungarian public debt may change, but today it is much more stable than it was a few years ago. As regards the security aspect of the settlement policy, I am not aware of a case where persons who have undergone a serious, substantial screening test and bought a settlement policy in Hungary have created any security risks. In this respect, however, let us make a distinction between those who have entered the European Union illegally and those who, in connection with which many terrorist acts have been carried out in Europe, and those who, after a substantial security check, have not only been able to obtain temporary residence, establishment, but also money. So I think that the security system, which has always been linked to the establishment bond institution, has passed a good test in recent years. As to what has been said about the Academy of Sciences. The expansion of the Hungarian economy in recent years has been achieved to a significant extent by reducing the number of unemployed and by becoming inactive. We can recall that the unemployment rate from around 12 percent, which was at the time of the change of government, dropped to below 4 percent. The fact is now that many companies claim that the availability of skilled workers is a barrier to their expansion. There are 80 to 90 thousand vacant posts. If we expect economic expansion and look at where our potential for growth is at international level, then we clearly see productivity and efficiency in an area where we do have opportunities for progress. In the region alone, the Czech economy operates more efficiently and productively. Where there is a problem, it must be recognised and measures taken to resolve it. Productivity and efficiency gains cannot be imagined without a more positive use of the results of R &amp; D and innovation than before. In this respect, I think it is difficult to argue that the government wants to respond to this new situation, the new challenges, by achieving greater coherence and coordination than the R &amp; D and innovation activities carried out by the various organisations. Yes, this concerns the Academy of Sciences, but let's see in next year's draft budget law that not only the Academy of Sciences, but also the university sphere and the Research, Innovation and Development Fund, from which the competition sector receives funds. Resources of a research and development and innovation nature available in the budget have been collected from several places, from three to four places. We are talking about a stronger coordination and harmonisation, which, I think, does not affect the freedom of the Academy of Sciences. Finally, allow me to mention that perhaps subjective thing, and I am very confident that the leadership of the Academy of Sciences will find a common voice with one of the members of the Academy of Sciences, Minister László Palkovics, and also with Professor László. Congressman Antal Csárdi, I must say that he misinterpreted the bill before this House in respect of Eximbank. The bill concerns the fact that Eximbank, like other organisations considered by Eurostat as part of the State, has to ask the government's permission if it intends to carry out a sovereign debt-enhancing transaction. Therefore, if Eximbank plans to deliver a bond issue and raise a bond issue, this withdrawal will increase the debt of the State as determined by Eurostat. In the future, if the motion is accepted by the Honourable Parliament, Eximbank can do so only if it has the government's approval in advance. After all, Eximbank's liabilities and exposures are part of the public debt. There's no tricks involved. Once again, an organization such as Eximbank operates in most countries of the European Union. I still have a deep professional conviction that Eurostat is not acting transparently. We know of EU countries where they have very similar activities and that, no, after bilateral negotiations, Eurostat will leave my local ex-exi out of the state. And when we ask you to tell us why you did this, write down the justification, there's no answer. That's my problem. I must also say that the interpretation that the transactions and market transactions referred to by the Member are subject to public interest payments is incorrect. I stress that the transactions referred to by the Member are not subject to public interest settlement. There's no budget support behind it. Interest compensation under the Eximbank Act, in accordance with EU rules, as in other countries, relates to transactions where there are market failures or where EU rules allow the financing of export activities. Let us look at the other EU countries, where there are such interest payments. Finally, thanking you for your comments, I must say that the government is open to the proposals made by the national minority advocate Mr Varga Simeon in the future, as in the past. Thus, this motion, as well as any other motion received, will be considered in substance, and the Government will establish its position in the future Commission's discussion of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-29-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 2 July 2018. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
