u2018-05-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Representatives of the MSZP, LMP and Dialogue shall not be present in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, The session of the Parliament on 10 May 2018 is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to President János Áder ; Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause) ; Former President Paul Schmitt (Applause) ; Mádl Dalma (Applause.) ; József Antall (Applause.) ; Péter Boross and Péter Medgyessy, former prime ministers; all former and current public officials, leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of Hungarian communities abroad, members of diplomatic bodies, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament and you, honourable Members of Parliament, ethnic advocates, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, On 9 May 2018, Mr Dávid Janiczak, the betterman, informed me that he had resigned his seat. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 198. Dear House, Under the agreement of the factions, speeches before and after the agenda will not take place at our meeting starting today, and there will be no interviews, immediate questions and questions. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits shall be decided on a proposal from the House Committee. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear House, First, we decide on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to act as T/14 on the list of the ministries of Hungary and on the amendment of certain related laws. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. T/14/1 proposed a derogation from the house rules. can also be found on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has unanimously adopted a derogation from the house rules by 152 votes in favour, no abstentions and no opposition. In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be tabled today at 4:34 p.m., the proposal for a consolidated debate, the decision on the summary amendment and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the agenda presented by the House Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, The election of the Prime Minister follows. Under Articles 1 (2) (f) and 16 (3) of the Fundamental Law, President János Áder nominated Prime Minister Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister. The proposal to that effect is S/7. You can learn about it on the IT network. Pursuant to Article 16 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the election of the Prime Minister requires the vote of more than half of the Members of Parliament. The Prime Minister will take office with his election. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House elected Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary by 134 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstention. [[Long-lasting, great applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Orbán thankes you for your applause standing up. The representatives of DK shall leave the meeting room. Interview from Fidesz: It's not over yet!]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the solemn oath. I ask you to listen to the Prime Minister's oath standing up. [[The people present will stand up. The commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit and requests permission from the Speaker to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who grants the authorization. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the wardens march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags.]] I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to come to the center of the room and take the oath of the Prime Minister. [[Viktor Orbán steps into the middle of the room. The decorator holding the national flag shall enter the centre of the hall and the flag shall be tilted during the duration of the oath. The decorative guards on both sides of the pulpit also overthrow the historical flags.]]
u2018-05-10-1	I, Viktor Orbán, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as Prime Minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Long-lasting, great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-10-2	Dear Parliament, Please, let's sing the Anthem. [[The people in this room sing the Anthem together.]] I would like to ask Prime Minister to take his place as Prime Minister and sign the oath papers. [[It's happening. Applause. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán congratulates first Dr. János Áder, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, Péter Harrach, Imre Ritter and Márton Gyöngyösi.]] [[14.40]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Prime Minister of Hungary wholeheartedly, to wish him effective and good work in carrying out his duties and to ask for God's blessing. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2018-05-10-3	Mr President of the Republic. Mr. Speaker, Fellow Members! First of all, thank you. Thank you, everyone, who took part in the parliamentary election, for any candidate you voted for. Thank you especially for the participation of those who have chosen us - civil, national and Christian forces. In addition to thanks, I am grateful to those who personally supported me. I know I have a special responsibility to them. I will fulfill my special duty to them and bring it into line with my other duty to serve the entire country, the whole country, all the citizens of the nation. My government is based on a two-thirds constitutional majority, but it will always serve the three-thirds. Dear House, I accepted the request of the President of the Republic. For the fourth time, I have taken my Prime Minister's oath, my eighth parliamentary term, and I have served my country as a Member of Parliament for 28 years. Please, please, my fellow Members, also consider me the Prime Minister who is one of you. I continue to believe that the country cannot be in opposition, because it is high above the parties, and its service must not depend on us being oppositionists or pro-government. I consider the debate and the fight to be a natural part of politics. Maybe that's okay. If we hit a nail in the wall and there's no resistance, then what can we hang on to that nail? I have learned so much about human nature that I know that even though we desire to win mildly, like the wind, we all want pious, peaceful agreements based on the facts, it is hardly possible for us in the world of politics, or if we do, rarely and at moments of mercy. I promise you that, and I promise you, I will try to make sure that the more we feel in this House that an angel has passed over us. I also promise my opponents that there and when party combat cannot be avoided, I will fight according to the rules of chivalry. And I promise the pro-government representatives that we will not be indebted to anyone in the debates. If they attack us, you can be sure that you will be God's God. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I've quoted before that politics is more dangerous than war, because in war, you only get killed once. That sounds scary, but it's actually a very optimistic idea, because it promises that anyone who deals with politics can rise more often. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I myself have spent 16 years in opposition and 12 years in government. I have learned that victory is never final, and defeat is never fatal, all that matters is whether you are ready to continue the fight. If God allows and lives, we will reach the end of this cycle, reach a balance between government and opposition years, and we will still be tied. (Development in the pro-government benches. ) [[14.50]] Let us make it immediately clear - this is a good place and a good time - we are sportsmen, we do not settle for a draw. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Dear House, I'm looking forward to you now, confident and ready to act. The work done can give us all sufficient confidence. If we look behind us, we can say that we wish Hungary, along with the list of errors, that it has never been worse for eight years. This is what voters may think, too, is behind the prosaic and mathematical fact that more people voted for the Fidesz-KDNP alliance than all the other parties sitting here together. And with that move, my dear friends, let's draw a sharp line. Let us draw the dividing line that Hungarian politics so rarely finds, and because it cannot find it, it falls on one side of the horse, and then on the other side of the horse, from the depressing Hungarian panpessimism to the stupid optimism of the treasury and back. Let us draw a sharp line between self-confidence and self-satisfaction. Let us make it clear that you cannot live from the past, and quote the intelligence of our King Stephen, that nothing will lift you up except humility, nothing will bring you down except pride and hatred. And let's face it, there's always the grace of God behind success. Therefore, it is not a rhetorical turn of events, not only tradition, but our deep conviction that soli Deo Gloria, or God alone, is the glory. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, And if we so prepared ourselves and set our thoughts in a direction, let us safely say that we will do great things for the next four years. We know that the planter can't stay unweeded, he needs to be hogged regularly. Therefore, the day-to-day work will be carried out at your pace and routine. But we're looking for a lot more than that. We want to cut our heads into real trees, even trees. We also know that from a certain point of view, a sparrow can be better than a bustard, but we want to go to real wild animals. Dear House, When I talk about the future of Hungary, I can only say for sure for the next four years, because that is the only time that my mandate extends. But you also know that I never think for four years. The opposition is often critical of this. My pro-government friends have warned me many times, so I should be careful of the big perspectives, because anyone who doesn't look at his feet can easily fall to his nose. Sometimes that's the case, so there's truth to that. Yet I am convinced that we now have the opportunity to do great things. It's been a long time since the stars were as good over our country as they are now. The Hungarian case won today. Everything the great plans require is together: there is experience, and there are comrades tried in serious battles. There is courage, international authority, a country on the rise, serious plans, force and self-confidence. The life force has not simply returned to Hungary and to Hungarian citizens. From Hungarian history, if rarely, but well-known, something is happening to us now: creative forces are emerging. The Hungarians believe not only that if they do their job well, tomorrow will not be worse than today - although in this corner of the world it is not little - but they also believe that tomorrow can be better. In fact, the election results show that they believe that it can not only be better, but also better. They want us to have a government worthy of the potential of the future ahead, that is to say, they expect us to rise to the challenge and to have at least as much optimism, ambition and creative power in the government as in voters. Everywhere we go in the country, we see signs of work, effort, construction: tower cranes, construction workers, cultivated lands. Everyone has a plan: to build, expand, adjust, and make something pretty. I feel that now, when we set great goals, we are on the same string, we are on the same wavelength as humans. This encourages and entitles us to prepare our plans not with four, but ten-year perspectives, but rather with twelve years of time. In addition, good governance will require this, as the next budget of the European Union and its implementation will actually last until 2030. Dear House, Time is the most important thing in politics. To govern a country, it takes skill and confidence. We still need field knowledge, international horizons, perspectives, and if this is still coupled with the courage of the innovator, and if we get the grace of insight, we already have a winning case. To tell you the truth, I've always seen 20 years between 2010 and 2030 as a single age. In my view, democracy, free elections and the possibility of political change management do not conflict with and do not preclude long-term thinking and long-term planning. If so, people living in democracy would give people who do not live in democracy an unimportable competitive advantage. But common sense leads us to do the same. Anyone who's built a house, you know, it's not worth digging up the basics without the blueprints of the finished house in our hands. Dear House, I know that many people will find it unbelievable, but I am able to make Hungary one of the top five countries of the European Union by 2030 where it is best to live, live and work. Similarly, I think it is possible for our country to be among the five best EU countries in the new types of competitiveness rankings, which measure not quantity but quality. It is well-known that there are countries of greater size, population and wealth, but there is hardly any more beautiful, safer, more ancient and protected than our Carpathian Basin and Hungary in it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Anyone who has a good eye for history can see the chance. All I can say to the stalkers is that we have to do the impossible three-thirds behind our backs, because someone else can do the possible. That is why we are undertaking to stop the population decline and even to make Hungary rise again. Speedways will connect Budapest to our county-righted cities, our motorways will run to national borders, and you will be able to reach the highways in 30 minutes from any point in the country. The new solar parks and Paks II. they will bring Hungary to the forefront of clean and sustainable energy production. 80% of world exports are currently made by 600 multinational companies, so we need to bring high value added and higher wages to Hungary, and in this category we want to be among the top ten countries in the world, all by increasing the share of Hungarian-owned companies from Hungarian exports by 50 percent. [[15.00]] People's diseases will be radically reduced, and to this end we will not be deterred from rationalising health and introducing strong incentives. We will finally build the new Hungarian defence. Our neighbours are constantly arming, but in general it is true that a nation that cannot guarantee its own protection is making mistakes in irresponsible and historical perspectives. I am especially counting on our young and talented military officers. Central Europe, which forms a historical destiny community in soul and culture, is also economically built, and our capitals and cities are connected by road, rail and air. We advocate Poland's decisive role and join forces with them to lay the foundations of a large Central European economic area. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear House, Among the great and inspiring goals is Budapest, of which we want to restore its old greatness and light, and which has an important role to play in the unification of the nation. This city is the home of the people of Budapest and the capital of the nation. For Hungarians, Budapest is the eternal city, which belongs to all Hungarians, at any point in the world; the city that awaits it. I believe that Hungary, the Hungarian language and culture, has the power of a huge magnet that attracts the Hungarians who have been swept out of the Carpathian Basin by the wind. Ference Molnár, who lived in New York, came in rich and envious, was once asked why he was so depressed. He said, "All my bad wishes and enemies are there in Budapest." I want my envy there. I don't care about the people here. [[Defiance.]] Dear House, I have never underestimated my opinion that the 2008 Western crisis, which, in addition to Greece, almost buried us, was in fact an age limit. This is when the new world order, which has long been formed in the deep, emerged. It became clear that the world had entered not only a new and unusual era, but also a new era with its own internal logic, its own lines of power. Even before 2010, I considered it my task to draw attention to this and to understand that we have entered a new era, and this requires change from everyone. I considered it my mission to convince the Hungarians that doing the same thing we did yesterday was not enough. We've got new things to do. And that was true of everyone, all of Hungary, including the government, we all had to be renewed. After all, we managed to convince the Hungarians that this is not only inevitable, but we are also able to do so; together and individually. Therefore, the aim of the 2010 crisis management was not to go back to better times before the crisis, but to lay new foundations, introduce new things: a new tax system, a new monetary policy, a new constitution, new codes, new family support, new work ethic. Ladies and gentlemen, If a people, as we have done, take new paths, they cannot save spiritual disputes. The spiritual adherents of the old world order, the financial beneficiaries, as well as the comfortable ones, the sloths, and the recluses will then attack the innovators in a camp. And the more successful we are, the more angry our critics are. These spiritual disputes could not and cannot be avoided in the future. Even if some people prefer to do so, they see it as an obstacle to accepting practical political success. Dear House, you can't secretly renew an entire nation. In my view, it has contributed to the successes so far, that we have openly said that the era of liberal democracy is over. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] He became unfit to defend man's dignity, unfit to grant freedom, no longer guarantee physical security, and no longer maintain Christian culture. There are people in Europe who are still working on it because they think they can fix it. They don't understand that it's not the device that's broken, it's the world that's changed. Our answer, the Hungarians' response to the changed world, is that instead of the liberal democracy on the reef, we built the XXI. 100th century Christian democracy, which guarantees man's dignity, freedom and security, protects equality between man and woman, the traditional family model, restrains anti-Semitism, protects our Christian culture, and gives our nation a chance to survive and thrive. We are Christian Democrats and we want a Christian democracy. Dear House, From the woods to the woods... If you live in a world, you cannot expect to realize that you are living in the time of the birth of a new world order when new values systems, new actors, new collaborations are formed. For this purpose, the countries have kept scribes, including politicians. Thus, it is also the government's duty to draw attention to the emergence of new technologies, new principles for economic organisation, new patterns of consumption, new economic battlefields, new generations and new dynamics. The government's job today is to prepare Hungary and prepare the members of the Hungarian nation for the new technological era. In the new era, everyone has to work, and today we're working 800,000 more than eight years ago. In the new era, high public debt is life-threatening. Our government debt rate is 17 percentage points lower than that of the euro area average, while the wage we worked 12 months for in 2010 is now being taken home in 8 months. In the new era, critical infrastructure serving national businesses on a market basis will be a crucial factor, so the banking system, the energy and media sectors have been taken into domestic hands. In the new era, knowledge will indeed become power, so we have taken the first steps, but only the first steps, to raise young people who live on the back of the ice. As you can see, the preparation has begun, but we still have a long way to go. Mr President, Dear House, It is nice to have innovation, confidence and great plans, but we also need to remember that we are a country of over a thousand years. In the politics of such an ancient country there are eternal things, such as the size, place, and spirit of the nation. It is also appropriate for the Prime Minister, the future members of the government and, in general, the Members of Parliament to know that. If we want to decide what Hungarians want in the world, we need to be aware of our size. Our size has changed steadily over the past 1100 years, but we have never been one of the world's large nations. The situation today is that Hungarians account for 0.2 percent of the world's total population. [[15.10]] It follows from this that the survival and survival of Hungarians is not automatic. A world in which they do not exist, where their kind simply does not exist, is unimaginable to the large and broad-kinship peoples. However, Hungarian politics should be based on the fact that it is possible to disappear, to scatter, to run out and to think about the world without the Hungarian race of Homo sapiens; some people already thought it. We thank God we're here today, not them. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is therefore the task of Hungarian politics to examine from this point of view what is happening to Hungary and around Hungary. Survival is a matter of vitality, so the Hungarian state and the Hungarian government must be stable, strong and able to act. It precedes everything else, overrides everything else. Dear House, We're a unique breed. There is a language that only we speak, there is the world that only we see through Hungarian language and culture, and only we portray it as we do. Without us, human civilization would certainly be poorer with a language, a world interpretation, and a world representation. This fact must give the government of all time a hold. The government should appear and represent Hungary in the outside world, knowing that there is already a great achievement behind us, with which we have contributed to the overall performance of mankind in science, culture, sport and art. We must live with the self-confidence and dignity of a country that knows that Hungarians have given the world more than they have given them. Our performance gives us the right to continue our history. This legal basis, the world contribution of Hungarians, must be constantly increased by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, Several states share the Carpathian Basin area. In addition to this historical fact, the Carpathian Basin is an organic natural, cultural and multilingual unit. I would like to convince our neighbours that together we can build the Carpathian Basin into the safest, fastest developing, unified economic, commercial and transport area in Europe. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In recent years, we have given many proofs that Hungarians are not to be feared, and it is to the benefit of those who cooperate with us. Dear House, The Hungarians, in the way of the human heart, shrink and expand, but they have been living essentially 1100 years where our great state founders have designated their place. Due to the specific location of our accommodation area, Hungary should favour geopolitical approaches, i.e. geographically based, over ideological thinking. Hungary is a member and a committed member of the Western Federal System, but this does not change the geographical definition of Hungarian statehood and Hungarian politics. To the west, there are German iron chancellors' land, to the east, the Slavic army people's world, and down south there are Muslim masses of people. Berlin-Moscow-Stambul: Hungary lives in this space, and we have to count on it in the future, so Hungarian politics cannot sympathize with the theory of democracy exports, it cannot be associated with those who lecture other peoples and who insult the German, Russian, Turkish people and their leaders. This is not only dictated by elementary goodwill, but also by our interests. This is the system of relations that we need to make sense in Hungarian politics. Mr President, Dear House, Literature of the nation's spirit is a library. My government follows the school that says that we Hungarians never wanted to be a slave. Who lived and died freely, / cannot rest in Servantland. / By the god of the Hungarians / We swear, / We swear that we will continue / We will not be prisoners! This oath shall be taken by all Hungarian children. According to my government, it is not enough to keep the three great armies, the German, the Russian and the Turkish outside the Carpathian Basin, but also to establish relations so that we can have freedom within our country, not only jointly but also one at a time, i.e. my government will be the governments of the free Hungarians and the sovereign Hungarian state. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] My commitment to freedom comes not only from the fight against dictatorship and Soviet occupation, but also from economic considerations. I belong to the generation that still remembers that the communist attempt to build a state was condemned to death by ignoring it and even defying one of the fundamental laws of human nature. Communism has forbidden people to improve their situation on their own, by their own initiative, by their own strength, or as individuals. That is why we felt Communism not only repressive but also unnatural. I intend to build our policy on this experience in the future. My goal is to give people the greatest possible freedom so that they can move forward on their own terms. We can't commit to solving anyone's life, but we want and can create conditions to solve it ourselves and to manage it on their own. Dear House, And I must also mention our place in the European Union. We want a strong Europe, peace and mutually beneficial agreements. We need the Union, and the Union needs us, and we are therefore ready to take part in the changes that the Union can make if it wants to. With all our strength, we will represent that the Union must act as an alliance of free nations and give up onion nightmares for the united states of Europe. The European Union must return to reality. As a first step, you should change your thinking about migration, migration and immigration. Today, in Brussels, people think it is unfair not to be born where they want to live. They think it's right for people to have the right to move to where they want to live. In Brussels today, thousands of paid activists, bureaucrats and politicians work to make migration a fundamental human right. That's why they want to take the right away from us so we can decide for ourselves who we take in and who we don't. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that migration will eventually lead to the break-up of nations and states. National languages are weakened, borders are blurred, national cultures are dissolved, and only one open society remains, and ultimately the unification of European societies is progressing so that a single and united European government can be created. This fate awaits those who do not defend themselves against migration. If not tomorrow, but in the foreseeable future, this is the real master plan. I will not sell a bag cat, I will make it clear to you that my government will also be opposed to this plan, to the processes leading here and to the intermediate steps, a determined opponent in the name of Hungarian freedom. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Multiculturalism was the first step, political correctness limiting freedom of speech was the second; Europe stands here today. The third step would be the compulsory introduction quota. In order to ensure that the Europe we love and for which we are ready for serious sacrifices does not step up to the next stage of self-destruction, we must and will stand up to the past of European politics, we will oppose the compulsory quota, we will stand up for Christian culture and we will fight for the protection of borders. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, a few minutes ago, I took my fourth oath as Prime Minister. We have never made clear in this House what this oath would ultimately be, the law does not correct us here, so we must clean up ourselves. The oath is a promise, a vow and a pledge. I believe that the supreme authority will punish us through our conscience if we break our vows. Therefore, now that I have sworn my oath, I hereby confirm to all the members of the nation, all 15 million Hungarians, individually and collectively, that in all my actions I will be guided by the service of our nation and our country, Hungarian people, Hungarian interests and Christian values. So help me God. [[Long-lasting, great applause in the ranks of the governing parties and in the box.]]
u2018-05-10-4	Dear Parliament, I thank the Prime Minister for his words. Now I ask you to stand up and honor the departure of historic flags and national flags. [[The commander of the decorative guard will step forward, and the flags will be used to signal the sound of the fanfares to leave the meeting room. The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I thank you for the attendance of our invited guests. The Parliament will resume its work at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[It's a rare applause.]]
