u2018-11-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be in charge of this meeting. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, In the spirit of the responsibility for Hungarians beyond the border and enshrined in the Fundamental Law, the Parliament declared 15 November 2015, the date of birth of the Transylvanian prince Gábor Bethlen as the day of the Hungarian sporadic. The 49/2015 resolution adopted by the Parliament was linked to the final declaration of the conference of the Hungarian Democratic Association of Romania organised in 2011 on the occasion of the Hungarian Sporadic Day and to the proposal of the Forum of Representatives of the Carpathian Basin on 5 December 2014. We have been celebrating the Hungarian sporadic day since 2013 throughout the Carpathian Basin. Living in a sporadic community that affects about one million Hungarian speakers today means that the use of the mother tongue may encounter external difficulties, that the preservation and transfer of the identity of the national community may require help, as the sporadic people try to preserve their mother tongue in a foreign language environment, and they try to preserve their cultural traditions in a foreign and fragmented geographical environment. The cohesion of our national community is rooted in this common language and cultural traditions, from which it weaves the entire Carpathian Basin. Ladies and gentlemen, Article D of our Fundamental Law states that Hungary is responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside its borders, promotes the survival and development of their communities, supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarians, enforce their individual and community rights, establish their community self-governments, thrive in the homeland, and promote their cooperation with each other and with Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to be able to comply with the principles that we set out and set out in the Fundamental Law, and to meet even more the expectations of our fellow Hungarians living across the border, it is important that Hungarians living in the sporadics feel that they can count on the mother country not only on this day, but at any time. Today let us echo the words of Gábor Bethlen, who wrote of his love for his nation: "What I can serve them in, I work day and night, I do not pity my fatigue, I do not pity my expense, I do not pity my death for them, as a true Hungarian. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the publication of an agreement on the exchange of country-by-country reports until closure. The government referral is T/3360. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-15-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The agreement to be announced by the bill before Parliament is intended to implement the automatic exchange of tax information between our country and the competent authority of the United States of America. The main objective of the agreement is to broaden the exchange of tax information between the two countries and to establish the legal basis for the exchange of country-by-country reports. The Agreement promotes the exchange of tax information and compliance between the two countries through the automatic exchange of annual reports of the MNEs subject to reporting. On the basis of the agreement, multinational groups of companies will transmit the received country-by-country reports to the U.S. tax authorities by means of automatic exchange of information. Within the framework of the agreement Hungary will also receive country-by-country reports from the US partner authority provided that the multinational group submitting the report has a Hungarian subsidiary or permanent establishment in Hungary. This information will allow our country to act more effectively against the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance with appropriate risk analysis and tax control, and to detect if multinational companies are engaged in artificial profit shifting activities. In addition to extending the scope of the tax information exchange, the further advantage of the agreement is that the conclusion of Hungarian subsidiaries with the US parent company could be exempted from submitting country-by-country reports, which would otherwise be required under the law on certain rules of international administrative cooperation in relation to tax and other public burdens, in the absence of the agreement. The reason for the exemption is that through the agreement Hungary will receive the required information directly from the US parent company, the US tax authority. Thus, the administrative burden on these companies will be significantly reduced and Hungary will continue to be a competitive investment destination. The precise manner, technical details and detailed content of the automatic exchange of country-by-country reports shall be laid down by the Parties in a further agreement between the competent authorities. It is important to point out that similar rules apply between the Member States of the European Union and between Hungary and the specific circle of non-EU countries, since the OECD and the EU have also established rules for the preparation and exchange of country-by-country reports, which were already transposed last year. The harmonisation of the rules resulting from both laws and from the agreement to be published with this bill is of paramount importance and, therefore, for each of these legislation, the international tax cooperation law contains specific implementing rules. Based on what has been said, I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-15-2	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-15-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, A year and a half ago, in May 2017, we discussed a multilateral agreement with similar title and content, which was developed by the OECD, to which the vast majority of the members of the organisation joined. However, the United States is not one of them. [[8.10]] It was therefore necessary to conclude a separate bilateral agreement. The information exchanged between the tax authorities of each country pursuant to the agreements on the exchange of country-by-country reports allows these authorities to take action against tax evasion through risk analysis and tax control. Tax transparency is increasing globally. Profits can be hidden in fewer and fewer countries, which encourages multinational groups to comply with their tax obligations in accordance with the legislation in the country where profits are acquired. The reporting obligation set out in the agreement under discussion, as well as in the case of the multilateral agreement announced in 2017, only applies to groups of companies whose turnover is up to EUR 750 million. They shall provide information on the amount of turnover, the profit before tax, the income tax, the subscribed capital, the accumulated profits, the number of employees and the tangible assets. The agreement gives the tax authority a means to act more effectively against international tax avoidance, so the Fidesz Group supports the proposed legislation and we also ask the other groups to support it with their vote in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-4	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-15-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief, too. Of course, the proposal before us can be supported. One thing I have come up with is whether the EUR 750 million is not too high, because we are talking about HUF 240 billion per year. In Hungary, I believe that very few companies meet this requirement. America is obviously a different story from this point of view, so it may be a small amount of money for them, for sure. I think that, in the spirit of reciprocity, an amount should be set for both parties, but otherwise the proposal is absolutely eligible, and if it has already been established in the OECD, it is, of course, eligible as a bilateral agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Staudt. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-15-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP parliamentary group supported the multilateral agreement signed by Hungary in December 2016 under which OECD Member States undertook to exchange country-by-country reports. On the basis of the agreement, the Hungarian State tax and customs authorities shall exchange, in a mutually automatic manner, the so-called country-by-country reports received from multinational companies resident for tax purposes in their territory, with the tax authorities of the States participating in the agreement in which a member of the multinational group is involved in tax matters. The companies concerned were reported for the first time in 2017 for the 2016 data and the first exchange of information between tax administrations was due in 2018. However, given the fact that the United States has not acceded to the multilateral agreement, a bilateral agreement should provide the legal basis for the exchange of country-by-country reports. The main purpose of the agreement is therefore to promote international tax compliance with the US Party, mutual tax assistance based on the automatic exchange of annual corporate reports. The agreement provides the tax authority with a bilateral instrument that allows for more effective action against international tax avoidance. For this reason, the MSZP parliamentary group supports the adoption of the proposal. However, the agreement also provides an opportunity to review the past period of Hungarian-American relations. If we were to describe the period since 2010, the headlines could be this: ban scandal; US concerns about corruption in Hungary; the speech of Ambassador Colleen Bell at the Corvinus University of Budapest; David Kostelancik on government, political and economic pressure on independent Hungarian media; American concerns about the geopolitical and lack of open tendering of the Paks II project; the lack of numerous and top level meetings of foreign ministers; the failure of Connie Mack's mandate, which was a billion-dollar waste of money for taxpayers; Senator Orbán's new fascist statement; Réka Szemerkényi's recall; Parliamentary speech by the President of the Central Bank of CEU and György Matolcsy, in which accused the US government of preparing coup in Hungary. This list explains why George W. Bush's 2006 visit to the Presidential level was the last top level visit to the United States and Hungary. Orbán has not been discussed with US Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton since his memorable visit to Budapest on 30 June 2011. In recent years, only two conventions have been concluded. On 3 February 2015, Mr.Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources and US Ambassador Colleen Bell signed an agreement on the future regulation of the American-Hungarian relationship with social security; and on 9 March 2015 the Office of Air Affairs of the National Transport Authority announced Hungary's intention to join the EU-US bilateral aviation safety agreement. This shows that there has been a clear step backwards in bilateral relations between Hungary and America, and that the issues raised previously have not been resolved. And if you were hoping to normalize the relationship, Ambassador Colleen Bell made it clear in his speech at the Corvinus University of Budapest on 28 October 2015 that the politics of the United States had not changed. The disputes remain. These are: concentration of power, Paks II, corruption, nationalist, intolerant rhetoric, lack of media freedom, distorted electoral law, and the planned creation of the statue of Bálint Homan. On 9 December 2015, at the conference organised by Transparency International Hungary, Bell said that American companies should compete with relatives of non-decision-makers, referring to the new law on public procurement, the relaxation of conflict of interest rules. At the same time, he gently indicated: American business circles find that there is a sense of corruption in Hungary. Colleen Bell announced at the American Chamber of Commerce on 20 January 2016 that economic relations between Hungary and the United States are strong, but can be even stronger by removing obstacles. He mentioned corruption among the obstacles, which he said remains a serious problem in the region. The 2016 State Department Human Rights Report on Hungary dealt with corruption and lack of government transparency in a separate chapter. There is a legal framework for criminal prosecution of corrupt officials, according to the views of the European Commission and professional organisations, but they are not sufficiently applied in practice by the government, and the authorities are not sufficiently thorough in investigating corruption cases. [[8.20]] According to the report, there have been a number of cases of government corruption, and civil society actors believe that corruption cases of government officials have remained undetected. The election of Donald Trump as President was a way out of this trap, and let us remember that Viktor Orbán was the only European leader who openly cheered for Trump. Despite this, the government has failed to bring the America led by Trump to Budapest, but it has not yet managed to get a white house visit. The Hungarian diplomacy defended that the State Department is full of Obama's people, who carry on the routine of previous years, but when Trump's people come in, the wind will slowly change in Washington. It was also argued that the highest level meeting did not take place because Hungary represents too little power on the international stage. It would be long for us to say that in addition to the Czech, Romanian or Finnish President, everyone who is not more serious than Hungary has been accepted by the President of the United States. We need to look for the reasons not in Hungary's international power, but in the politics of the Hungarian government. Orbán thought that if he hit CEU, he would gain good points at Donald Trump, who also did not like George Soros. The Higher Education Act was therefore amended by the pro-government majority in an accelerated procedure. The government's misfortune after the adoption of the law was only the foam on the cake as to who the international agreement should be with in the case of CEU. For example, Peter Szijjártó wanted to prove at all costs that the American government did not know its own constitution. It was a terrible political effort to push the whole case to the level of the U.S. federal government, even though it was clear that it was not competent. It was obvious that, by the way, they were trying to force a Trump-Orbán meeting. They hoped that the campaign against Soros would be a common denominator with the US administration. They were wrong. The U.S. State Department clearly supported the further operation of the university, because George Soros is an American citizen, CEU is an American-based university, so whoever attacks it attacks America. According to the new American ambassador, good Hungarian-American relations depend on the CEU. David Cornstein, a new US ambassador, said he hadn't dealt with anything as much as the CEU in his first hundred days. There are two more weeks to conclude the agreement. If there is no agreement between the Hungarian Government and the State of New York by 1 December, the new courses of the university will start in Vienna. This is not only a loss to Hungarian higher education, but these problems are a serious burden on bilateral relations. The Convention on the exchange of country-by-country reports is a step forward in strengthening relations, but we strongly hope that, once this is ratified, the bilateral agreement to ensure the functioning of the CEU will soon be brought before this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-15-8	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz!
u2018-11-15-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute that Members of Parliament can talk about anything within the given timeframe, but I have missed a few things from Zita Gurmai's speech. She didn't talk about space, she didn't share Christmas recipes with us, and she didn't show us her shopping list for the weekend. Because what you've told me, most of it has nothing to do with this proposal, has the same thing to do with space exploration, recipes, or weekend shopping lists. For the sake of viewers and Hungarian people alone, I would like to emphasise that this proposal is about international tax evasion, and the essence of the convention contains the more serious sanctions for this. I'd like to make sure that's recorded and underlined. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-15-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'll see if anyone else has a comment. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, I will conclude the general debate and ask the rapporteur, Mr Norbert Izer, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Izer Norbert: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-15-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd only react in a minute. On the basis of the tax arguments put forward in the debate, I believe that there is agreement among all parties that this convention should be supported. I would also ask all Members to support this agreement when voting. As Congresswoman said, the amendment or ratification of this Convention would result in a much more effective system of instruments for reducing tax avoidance in Hungary. That is why I ask Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-12	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, Today we have until 16 o'clock to submit the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of amendments to the Customs Convention on International Carriage in Geneva, 14 November 1975, by means of a TIR certificate, will follow. The government referral is T/3363. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-15-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Hungary has applied the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 on the international carriage of goods by TIR pass in practice from 1978. The TIR Convention allows goods which are subject to tariff and tax suspensions to cross national borders if they are transported by road on at least one stage, subject to minimum intervention by the customs authorities. The TIR system facilitates the development of international trade by reducing delays in traffic by reducing the traditional barriers to international movement of goods. The main advantage of the system is that the TIR Convention, through the international guarantee chain, provides relatively easy access to the guarantees required for the carriage of goods where goods launched by the customs authorities of one Contracting Party are not presented to the customs authorities of the other Contracting Party. In practice, the customs offices of the countries concerned by road transport shall accept as authentic the International Customs Guarantee Document completed by the carrier and certified by the office of departure, the TIR Card, the holder of which shall be liable for any legal consequences which may arise during the transport operation. The current only international guarantee chain is managed by the Geneva-based representative organisation, the International Association of Road Transporters, the large international insurance companies, and the TIR executive body also meeting in Geneva. The TIR Convention has been amended 32 times in different sections since 1978. In the current amendment, the UN Economic Commission for Europe amended the Convention's core text and its annexes. This bill includes the publication of an amendment to the TIR Convention. Most of the amendments to the Convention's core text are specific, but the amendment that provides that when persons committing an act which infringes TIR transport from transport, each Contracting Party must determine under its national law what constitutes a serious breach of customs rules. The amendments to the Annexes to the Convention also amend the maximum guarantee amounts proposed as TIR cards from USD 50 thousand to EUR 100 thousand by maintaining the sovereign right of the Contracting Party concerned to determine the specific guarantee amount. A further substantive amendment is the addition of requirements for the audit of the International Guarantee Organisation to increase transparency. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based. The number of TIR cards issued by the Hungarian Guarantee Association on an annual basis is about 20,000 pieces, with a volume of which Hungary belongs to the middle field in the international context. The number of persons authorised to use the TIR card, recognised by the Hungarian Guarantee Association, can be estimated at 1500, which shows that Hungarian farmers are actively using the opportunities offered by the TIR system. [[8.30]] These amendments are of a technical nature but contribute to a more uniform and harmonious operation of the TIR system. On the basis of what has been said, I therefore ask that the bill on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention on International Carriage by TIR Card be supported and adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-14	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-15-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Hungary has applied the 1975 TIR Convention since 1978. The essence of the Convention, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is to ensure that goods carried by road cross borders with as little interference as possible with customs authorities, while meeting the guarantee elements of customs control. The Convention has been amended 31 times in total since 1978. Of this, only in the previous cycle 2014-2018, the convention was twice before the National Assembly. The first amendment dealt with electronic procedural issues, the second was aimed at combating circumvention of the Convention and, on the other hand, at tarpaulin trucks. The vast majority of the current amendments are clarifying and clarifying. The most important change is that the guarantee amount per TIR card varies from $50,000 to €100,000. Although most of the amendments are technical in nature, they contribute to making the TIR system work more efficiently. Therefore, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill and we ask our fellow Members to support it as well. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-15-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-15-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As an ordinary citizen, I didn't know for a long time what this TIR really was. Then, obviously, you have to look into certain things, and it turns out that this is nothing more than solving customs warranty issues in international road freight. In fact, customs procedures have been standardised in such a way that goods transported under the TIR procedure are exempted from customs duties and duties in the territory of transit countries. What is included in the bill itself, we can agree with it, and we will support it. After all, as has been said here by the Secretary of State, there is actually only one substantive element to this, an increase in the amount of the guarantee, with which we can fully agree. However, when it comes to road freight, some things need to be mentioned. To reassure my fellow Member, Mónika Duna, I will not bring in any Christmas recipes or space research. But when it comes to such a subject, we must mention a few things about it. We know that the annual volume of freight transport in Hungary is around 60 billion tonnes of freight. 70 percent of this is on the road. Three-quarters of this, however, is responsible for international traffic. If we add this idea a little further, then with experience from everyday life, namely that trucks operating in international traffic have covered Hungary's roads, we are going further. In particular, the multimodal, combined transport and transport modes in Hungary should be much more supported by the current government than we are seeing now. After all, the coordination of these would be of primary interest to the national economy, in order to protect the environment, the protection of accidents and the road network at all. In particular, it is important to add statistical data that show that, on an annual basis, heavy goods vehicle traffic in Hungary is about HUF 1000 billion, obviously unintended, but also produces so-called negative externality and damage. For 40 percent of this is the responsibility of international freight transport, which is, in fact, rumbles and flows through Hungary; however, it causes serious damage to hundreds of billions of people. This is why it would be good to consider that Hungary lies at the intersection of railway Corridors and could be developed in such a way, let us say, the container transport, which in 2002 looked like they had loaded about 100,000 trucks on railway wagons annually, thus protecting the health of Hungarian people, saving the Hungarian environment and the Hungarian road network. However, this sector has been successfully dismantled. Please remind everyone here that the so-called ROLA was executed at the end of 2012, which was precisely the task of transporting these trucks and containers through Hungary in this form. This should be considered, its restoration, its much greater support, and not 700 billion forints, in our opinion, are completely brainwashed in the development of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, which is a total of 150 kilometers. After all, it looks like the Hungarian state will have 700 billion forints instead of taking on more important priorities and focusing on them once we can see the state of resource scarcity. Then we should also raise awareness among transport policy managers that not only rail freight could be improved in Hungary, but also, say, inland waterway transport. In Hungary, this sector is responsible for only 4 percent of all freight transports, even though our rivers, in this case the Danube, could also be understood as a very cheap freeway at our disposal. After all, a freighter can trigger hundreds of trucks and take them off the road. It would be important to increase the share of energy and environmental modes of transport in the division of labour in transport. This is what the EU's so-called Transport White Paper 2011 would warn us about. Unfortunately, we don't see much movement in this area. As I said before, the negative externalities in road transport are very high. Someone, obviously Hungarian society, will have to pay for this sooner or later. When it comes to negative externalities, there's a few more of these data. In the case of rail, this is only one-eighth of road freight, and if goods are carried on board, it is inland freight, it is one-seventeenth of a trucker's transport. Therefore, we should pay particular attention to these sectors. In particular, we say that within Europe there are 1,400 kilometers of inland waterways in Hungary, and the most important inland waterway route in Europe, the Duna-Rajna-Majna system, which is 3,500 kilometers long, is also the geographical centre of Dunaalmás in Hungary. This sector is also very important from a national economy point of view, responsible for around 10 percent of total GDP in Europe, and it is slightly less in Hungary and 6-7 percent in Hungary. But it is not only in this respect that we must pay attention to them, but, as I have already said here, also from an environmental point of view. After all, transport is responsible for about half the emissions of toxic carcinogens. That is why it would be good if this combined transport system, which I have been talking about, could be improved in some way, and that they would be more careful to obtain sufficient resources for them, and then Mr. Oberstrómanführer, Mr.Lőrinc Mészáros, would not manage the funds for these purposes with all kinds of overloaded projects. All in all, that would be what I wanted to add on Jobbik's part. The proposal will be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[8.40]]
u2018-11-15-18	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-15-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments concerning the core text of the TIR Convention are largely specific. In addition, the paragraph of the TIR Convention laying down provisions on the exclusion from transport of persons who have committed an act which infringes TIR transport. On the basis of the supplement, each Contracting Party shall determine, in accordance with its national law, what constitutes a serious breach of customs legislation. In addition, on the basis of the amendments to the Annexes to the TIR Convention, the proposed guarantee amount per TIR card will vary from USD 50,000 to EUR 100,000. Accordingly, the adoption of the submission is supported by the MSZP fraction. However, with regard to international transport, it is worth raising an urgent problem, namely the Posting of Workers Directive in the Mobility Package presented in the European Parliament, the extension of which to road transport makes the situation of Central and Eastern European carriers, including Hungarian carriers, impossible. The National Transport Industry Board of Private Entrepreneurs has therefore sent a letter to the representatives of the European Parliament, international organisations and public decision-makers to represent the interests of the sector in the negotiation process. On the basis of the Posting Directive, road transport operators should determine salaries on the basis of wages established in the countries affected by the route in the case of transport within the territory of the European Union, which poses a risk to the sector producing 6 per cent of the total domestic product and 110 000 employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. In a letter from the National Transport Industry Board of Private Entrepreneurs, we feel that the EU principle of freedom of services is only to be assessed and applied, while it serves the interests of the more economically developed Western European Member States, which, moreover, install their production units in the Eastern European Member States offering lower labour costs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We believe that the interest in each mobility package is more political than professional, and now there is a threat that a highly competitive Hungarian sector is being excluded from EU markets. In addition to Hungarian, the provisions of the mobility package also affect the entire Eastern European sector, and therefore the transport and tourism committee designated as responsible for the mobility package has drawn up a draft containing a number of compromises that would have exempted international transport from the scope of the Posting of Workers Directive. However, the amendment was not accepted by the European Parliament on 14 June. The European Commission maintained its proposal even though 14 chambers of the national parliaments of 11 Member States, including the Hungarian Parliament, challenged the proposal by initiating the so-called yellow flat procedure. The Posting Directive was published on 9 July 2018. Member States should transpose the Directive into national law by 30 July 2020. Domestic transport was also facing a major challenge before this regulation came into force. According to the data of Opten, in 2018 there were 902 fewer road freight companies in Hungary than in 2016. So let's ask: what about the Hungarian transport companies? What happens if the Court of Justice of the European Union does not decide or does not take into account the interests of Hungarian and Eastern European carriers before 2020? What does the government do for more than 110,000 employees? We look forward to concrete and reassuring answers to these questions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-11-15-20	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Norbert Izer, if he wishes to respond. [[Izer Norbert says no.]] It says no. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Today we have until 16 o'clock to submit the amendments. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the production and dissemination of films until closure. The government referral is T/3376. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian film industry has achieved a number of remarkable successes in recent years. The films, supported by the Film Fund, received a total of 310 international awards in recent years, including the Oscar Prize, Golden Globus, the Grand Prix of Cannes, the Golden Bear of Berlin and the Oscar of Students. The Hungarian films were awarded 51 main prizes by the festival jury. And as far as last year is concerned, Hungarian films have won some 70 festival awards in 27 countries, including 12 audience awards. And what's just as important is that the ratings of home movies in domestic cinemas have exceeded 1.2 million, which hasn't happened in the last ten years. In addition to professional and public experts, we can also report serious economic results. The film industry has generated record revenues in Hungary in recent years, and direct film production spending after 2016 exceeded HUF 100 billion in 2017. Several large-budget films were made in Hungary. The world stars, as you can see, are handing each other the doorknob in the capital. The direction is good, and we can support this in various approaches, but this does not mean that we should not do everything to ensure that the legislation serves the Hungarian film industry and Hungary in the best possible way. With this conviction, the government presented today's legislative proposals. The amendments concern three laws, legislation on motion picture, rules on broadcasting and digital transition, and law on media services and mass communication. Allow me to briefly summarise the most important proposals for amendments. On the one hand, the motion picture law clarifies what constitutes filmmaking and, on the other hand, clarifies the concept of national film wealth, so it will be clear in the case of film works which property rights fall within the scope of the national film wealth. The bill would also modify the tasks of the central organisation of the Hungarian film support system. It would be easier for the Hungarian National Film Fund to obtain the right of ownership and use, thus reducing the administrative burden. The proposal also amends the rules on film support and changes the range of eligible producer costs. Rules on the remuneration of foreign actors and staff members may also be amended. The aim is to close the loopholes created by applying a film tax reduction. The accountability of the remuneration of foreign actors and staff members would be uniform. It is connected here, and this is important that only the services actually provided in Hungary will be the basis for direct Hungarian film production costs in the future. The proposal would also amend the rules on the employment of young people in the film industry. Under current rules, the employment of young workers cannot be legally guaranteed during the night hours. The amendment would allow this if the special circumstances of the shooting justify this. The bill also provides a solution that is in line with EU rules. The proposal would also modify procedural charges for the use of public film-making space, both for additional costs and for inflation monitoring. [[8.50]] As regards the amendment of the Digital Transition Rules Act, the aim here is to simplify the procedures and rules for applications for the operation of radio-TV broadcasting networks. It is well known that in recent years there has been a simplification of administration in this area. We would now like to take another step on this path by weeding out regulatory parallels. The purpose of the bill is also to standardise individual tendering procedures, but the procedure does not change in the fact that the president of the NMHH concludes an official contract with the winner. In our view, it is in the public interest that digital broadcasting should be launched as soon as possible after the tenders, and this would be encouraged by effective preventive means. A penalty of up to HUF 500 million could be imposed against the late or delayed winner. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the support system for Hungarian film production has been strengthened. I've already mentioned the most important results. We have made a lot of progress in film productions primarily intended for cinema production, but other film genres also have a great tradition in film production. In this context, the bill would strengthen support for television films and series of films, and therefore the law on media services and mass communication would be amended. The proposal would create a new fund called a mecenature to support film creation and a film college to manage it. The members of the film college would be among the renowned professionals in the field of cinema. They will not be able to be instructed in their activities, and the mecena would carry out their support activities with public tenders. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the amendments contained in the proposal serve two main objectives: firstly, to ensure that the legal background of film works is properly adapted to the needs of the motion picture industry, and secondly, to create works of high artistic value, thus strengthening not only the film industry but also the whole of Hungarian culture. I think that these are objectives that Members can wholeheartedly support, regardless of party affiliation. Thank you for your attention. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2018-11-15-22	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-15-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the international success of Hungarian films, special attention is being paid to the Hungarian film industry. This proves that, in order to maintain Hungary's favourable position in the film industry, it is necessary to review the regulation from time to time. We have also heard from the Secretary of State that the current amendment to the film law adopted unanimously at the end of 2003 makes it possible to fine-tune the film law on a comprehensive basis based on the practical experience of the film industry and the application of the law. It is fine-tuning because these amendments are not intended to modify the substance of the film law, but rather to provide a more precise, precise definition of the various legal bases, in order to ensure a more secure and predictable application of the law and to allocate the aid in line with the actual legislative intention. In this context, the bill includes, inter alia, clarification of certain professional definitions, the clarification of provisions relating to national film assets, the regulation on the management of the assets of the Hungarian National Film Fund, the provisions on the operation of the artworks and the art qualification of filmmaking, the clarification of the legal bases for eligibility as direct film production costs, and the provisions on the employment of young workers in the film industry. The bill provides for the possibility of integrating the practical experience gained since the adoption of the film law into the law, thereby ensuring that state resources are used more effectively. With the amendment, it becomes clear that the aim of the change is to align the legislation with the legal policy objective that only the services actually provided in Hungary can form the basis for direct Hungarian film production costs. The services performed abroad should not be eligible even with the help of an intermediary by applying the rules on the costs of direct film production in Hungary. In addition, the bill allows for the resolution of legal anomalies that have arisen in practice, thereby ensuring a higher level of law enforcement that is essential for the participants in the film industry, in particular in the planning of the costs of film-making, which is usually carried out with a high budget. Mr Secretary of State said in his exposé that the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition in the bill. The purpose of the amendment to Law 6 is to improve the transparency and simplification of the rules regarding the tendering procedure for the acquisition of the operating rights of the digital broadcasting network and broadcasting tax and to ensure that Dtv. deregulation of its provisions which have been exceeded. The Dtv. It is necessary to repeal the above provisions in view of the implementation of the national digital television changeover. The application for the operating licence of the digital broadcasting network in the national area of reception was completed in 2007, as we know. On the basis of the tender, analogue-to-digital parallel television broadcasting was carried out by the end of 2014. By that date, the analogue shutdown took place at several paces and the digital switch-off took place at the same time. The proposal also simplifies legislation in the light of the implementation of the digital transition and provides for general frequency distribution procedures to be applied to the rules on tendering. The proposal also sets out the detailed rules for redress in relation to the tender and complements the rules with guarantee provisions for the conclusion and verification of the performance of an official contract governing the details of the operating entitlement to the tender. In addition, the amendments include the codification aspects that are set out in Act I of 2017 on Administrative Rules and the 2016 CL on General Administrative Rules. They are necessary for the entry into force of law. As stated above, films supported by a fund specifically created for this purpose are fundamentally successful. Then why can't television films be successful again after many years? For this reason, the proposal establishes a new dedicated fund called Television Film Mecenatura to support films and series of films made for publication in the media service. The new fund is clearly separate in terms of its responsibilities from the activities of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, which already exists in the Media Act system, which is responsible for supporting public media services and programmes. According to the proposal, the manager of the new fund is the film college of five renowned professionals in the field of cinema. In addition to maintaining conflict of interest rules, it is also important to guarantee that the mecenature carries out its support policy and such activities by means of a public tender. In order to ensure consistency with the state aid rules of European Union law, it is still necessary to supplement the Media Act with a grant clause and to make the technical amendment contained in the proposal. [[9.00]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think that our common goal is to make good and better big and small films in Hungary, and it is also important that Hungarian people not only enjoy the results and productions of the Hungarian motion picture industry in cinemas but also in their homes. I hope that by creating these, they will create the same time-proof and popular works as Abigail, Sándor Rózsa, or even Tüskevár, which are still popular, even among young people. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the bill tabled and I ask you to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-24	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-15-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The intentions set out in the Act and expressed in the State Secretary's Expo are positive, forward-looking, who does not want the production, distribution, qualification of films to be in order In the area of support, so that there is no conflict of interest at the time of evaluation, so that film art is supported, the real value of Hungarian cinema and added copyright, the tightening up, reinterpreting and the protection of minors. These are all positive goals, but in many cases the devil is in the details, and we feel that they are now. One of the most controversial, interesting parts of the law is the new fund, the creation of a media field tour, and precisely because it is the most controversial, the most interesting part, I would like to deal with it a little longer. One of the important objectives of the proposal and one of the main motivations for its creation is to create and operate a separate fund that supports television programming, building on the analogy of the operation of the media field, especially in relation to the events of Hungarian history giving rise to pride. This, in itself, is thought-provoking, obviously positive, that this is the main aim of you, but this also raises the question that this may be a self-religion, that you also perceive that the support for films of this kind has not really happened so far. And this is not only a constant criticism of Jobbik that few historical films have been made that would deal with events of our past that would be a cause for pride for all our countrymen, but also from government-wide circles that we cannot say much about films funded by Andy Vajna. There were audience films, as the Secretary of State said, with serious visits, but these are different kinds of films. So we are pleased that this new fund has this kind of objective and we hope that it will be achieved. However, a number of criticisms can be drawn from the experience of recent years. The idea is therefore eligible, the idea is good, the creation of a new fund is entirely justified, but it leaves the same mechanism unchanged in its principles, which has helped to support a well-defined circle with public money. This support is proposed to expand now, to extend to other genres, and to put the beneficiaries in a position in these areas as well. And why do we have these concerns? Well, for example, because the fund manager of the television film field has become the film college, as has been said, and the president of the film college will be a Media Council member appointed by the president of the Media Council, and from then on the closeness of the government will be indisputable. I understand that it is also laid down here and in the delegation of the other two members, what kind of professional aspects must be met, but we have seen from the practice of the last few years that the criterion of proximity to government has also been very serious here, and there is also a problem with the delegation of the remaining two members for five years, which in itself does not guarantee a fair professional attitude, taking into account the granting of grants on a professional basis. Once again, the Media Council appointed by the President of the Media Council will be the president of this film-college and the two members appointed by the appropriate Ministry of Government will be members of it. This raises serious questions as to whether professional aspects will really prevail or whether other political aspects will dominate. Our further criticism is that the five years to which these delegations are addressed are a long time, which preserves the continued supply of aid to the front-running, preferred suppliers, and the real competitive situation is hard to imagine, and we can safely say that it is unimaginable. It is also a general problem in the media field that the same people support the same people, independence is just a pre-envelope, that the situation will be similar with the film department. For example, we would recommend a shorter period of five years, up to two years. Multiple funding has also been raised in relation to a production, a film, as the proposal does not solve the problems of accumulation of aid as described in the film support scheme approved by the European Commission, in force until 31 December 2024. This can continue to be played with the techniques used in practice, as it only regulates that if a production has received support from, for example, the media field, for example, the film department can no longer support it. In our opinion, it should be stated in the law that a film producer who has received aid from any public funder in the reference year should no longer be able to apply with another production in the reference year at the other public funder, for example at the Film College. If this is not recorded, we will face the fact that an exposed, subject-law-supported producer will receive support from both places each year and take away a very large part of the state money overall. The proposal therefore centralises, does not guarantee value assessment, the range of friendly suppliers close to the government does not change, it will continue to be very difficult to get into the support system on a professional or talent basis, it will be another separate user source for NER beneficiaries. In fact, the productions carried out within the framework of the Fund could not be used to create cultural values, but rather to support the government's kind creators, and it could also provide a potential opportunity to provide support to media close to the government through a new channel, as the mecenature could provide TVs with state-funded content. Where can the funding come from? It is also a legitimate question that it is difficult to distinguish between a movie and a television movie nowadays, often it only decides where the film is presented, so it is very easy for the film rejected at the media field to try out at the film department, from which it receives support for the same application, and then it has access to the same money, the difference in the outcome is that the premier is not in the cinema, but in the TV. So there are serious problems and questions and concerns about this film community, but that is not all this bill is about, and I would like to refer to something else for a sentence. In relation to the work of people under 16 years of age, the initiative is positive, we appreciate it, but it is odd that the draft law puts the authorisation for so-called night shooting only under the authority of guardianship and does not mention the parent or guardian in any place. It would be important for them to be included in this appropriate passage in some form. And, Mr Secretary of State, if we are talking about films here in this House, then allow me to bring you a current question. In the last few days, the film profession, but also a significant part of Hungarian society, has been concerned about the unfolding of the alleged script of the film in Nándorfehérvár. I trust that we are talking about a fake news living in today's word, when it was interesting to read on government portals that the film does not commemorate the person of János Hunyadi, the Turkish-beating Dalic general, not the bright victory of the Hungarians, but rather rather the fantasy work of fictional actors, trying to bring this story back to life, which is a huge sum of 7 billion forints, we know very well that even within the filmmaking process, it is an outstanding amount. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to reassure everyone here in Parliament that this is the scenario created by Bálint Hegedűs, which has supposedly been leaked, is not the final scenario, and this will not be the way this film will be made. [[9.10]] I think it would be a great shame if this production, one of the most glorious events of our past, were to take place in this form, and I say again, this has caused serious echoes in recent days. That is why I would take the opportunity to ask Mr Secretary of State whether this is the final scenario or just a work model that will not actually be implemented. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-26	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-15-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, For the past ten years, it has become almost accepted standard in our country that you are trying to distort reality to your own ideas. For example, if one of the government's decision-makers throws in an ideologically over-driven idea, they start working on creating an image similar to the fidesz image of the world. You are not treating Hungarian history as a common heritage with your diversity and your debates, but as a heroic, imaginary tale in which everything is one-way. Your government is obsessed with avoiding debate and diversity. Instead, they want to dictate what's right and what's wrong, what's right and what's wrong. This distorted thinking demeans the present into a spiritual civil war and greatly restricts the future. In such an environment, Hungarian citizens are becoming less and less interested in discussing their different ideas and feel the need to overcome those who think differently. The bill before us is an eloquent proof of this distorted thinking. In recent years, Hungarian film production has achieved great success. Results that put their creators and thus our country on the world's cinematic stage. We're all heartbroken by the success of movies like Saul's son or Everyone's. At the same time, we also know that these works are not meant for political order, but for freedom of the creators. For these successes, it took the freedom provided by the Hungarian National Film Fund to create these films, even if it did so out of public money. We can also welcome the fact that Budapest and Hungary are hosting an increasing number of shootings, thanks to the support tax relief that was adopted 15 years ago under István Hiller's ministership. Compared to this, the bill before us is a harsh step backwards. The parts of the proposal relating to national film wealth and film archives and some administrative measures are considered to be part of the normal course of action. The real problem isn't that. The problem is that the proposal wants to create an institution called the TV cinematography, which would essentially be a new alternative source for the Film Fund. The leadership of this new fund would be appointed by the Media Council and the Government, and this fund would mean extra money in addition to the still brutally expensive MTVA, which has an annual HUF 80 billion budget. Let us be clear: you want to set up a course film factory where the main goal will be not to create free works, but to serve political orders. Your goal is to create films here to support the history of Fidesz, where movies that interpret the past come from that which can justify Fidesz government communication. However, this is not cinema, it is political propaganda. It's not too surprising that they want to create this near the Media Council and MTVA. After all, this team has proven itself. They're not sensitive to their independence because it doesn't exist. And the government's political orders are humbled at any time. In addition, it can be a new money-sharing fund for fidesz friends and relatives who produce a couple of servile, fake historical dramas at any time. A few years ago, we understood that Viktor Orbán's speech was included in a free public textbook. Looks like that's not enough for today. If this law becomes a reality, in a few years, Orbán will be able to shoot a telebook about Viktor Orbán, filled with tax forints. The MSZP does not support the setting up of another public-money lie factory, and this proposal is therefore rejected.
u2018-11-15-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-15-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, as a journalist, I would like to start by saying that I am very happy that if Hungarian films are successful, I am very proud of the success of the Hungarian film, they will win any awards, festival victories or public awards, regardless of which government is in power. If you are in power, the son of Saul wins even if the Mephisto won in 81, then, now, I will not say who the Prime Minister was, we still had international awards and, of course, an important international film prize for the duration of all governments. It always means pride to me. What I think is important to state in this case, what appears here as an amendment, is that, of course, I am also a believer in making as many Hungarian films as possible. I see some disproportion in the area of Hungarian cinema, for example, you can see that not all films get the kind of media publicity or the opportunity to appear in cinema that they might deserve. I also see, of course, that there are audience films and there are art films, but I think that the promotion of the marketing of art films would be of particular importance for as many people as possible to see these films, and not just for the Hungarians to know that these films are even there if they stumble on the Internet or in any news about the fact that someone's film has just won an award. Obviously, I would not like to say names on this matter, because I would also like to indicate that I think that the film was seen by fewer people than it really deserved, and I do not want to put anyone in an awkward position in this case, but I just wanted to draw attention to the phenomenon. The other thing is, I can also agree that there should be a TV movie. For me, it was a longing for contemporary Hungarian works to appear primarily in the media and on the television screen. I consider this to be extremely important; if there was an advantage to the previous system, the system prior to the, 89, it was, for example, that TV films could be seen regularly on television, and I think that would be an important and sympathetic story for me. However, I would also like to point out that the part of how these will be financed does raise a number of questions. For example, the problem is that we do not yet see the amounts of these funds, we do not see who will closely supervise them, and if the telecoms authority receives such a licence, it means for me, too, that if they are the only ones supervising them and handing out these funds, that there is a clear political message, this must be the government's position. I think that culture, including film production, or cinema, should be taken out of this bag, and that the opportunity should be given not only to the people of the government sitting there in such a story, and not only to those people, say, with voting rights, to represent their own world view, who represent a system of views close to Fidesz or close to its current views. I think it is important to involve artists who think otherwise in this work. Excuse me, I would also venture to allow the parties appearing in Parliament or the Committee of Culture to be represented in some way in such a body. I think that this is important, and I think that this would be fair, and it would be reassuring for all those who are operating the Hungarian film industry and are destined to make films for Hungary. So what we expect from this proposal is that part of the field trip should be fixed, polarised, which parties and how they think differently, as Fidesz thinks, who can participate. [[9.20]] We consider the publicity of this to be extremely important, and we also consider that these funds are not intended to give newer and more fidesz circles mandates to create art works or programmed works, but to provide everyone with the opportunity to make this information more widely available and to give as much international recognition to Hungarian cinema as possible. It is much better to be happy together if there is such a thing as banging people's boobs, and others feel that they are excluded from a joint success. With regard to the film application of minors, I would simply agree that the parent should be asked, not to run to social services all the time. Most of the time, children have parents, these minors mostly live with their parents, there is obviously a telephone, e-mail, draft contract and so on, it could be confirmed with different points, and if they could have such opportunities in their application, I think it would be simpler. The film about the Battle of Nándorfehérvár has appeared here, and I sincerely trust János Szász, whom I consider to be a great director, has brought several festival awards to Hungary. His interviews in this case reassure me that this will not only be a large-scale, but a valuable piece of work, focusing on the personality of János Hunyadi, he talked about it in his interviews, so I will look forward to this film with great interest, like all the others, and I am very keen that this film will be a success. Finally, I would like to say that Hungarian film is extremely important to me. I would also like to see other issues settled in the debates around the film, such as the regular return of film sightings. These were important sightings of the Hungarian film industry, so that they would not meet each other in connection with the premiere of a cinema. I was the host of these movie sightings for years, and this was not only good because I saw all Hungarian films given that year in three days at once, but I could see that they were very useful in finding each other in the audience and in the profession. I'd like these to be returned. Finally, the film should not be a money laundry, it should not be a group of political actions, it should not be a government propaganda, it should serve the universal Hungarian culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-11-15-30	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-11-15-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, It seems that we must take Viktor Orbán's words seriously again. When, after the elections, the President of the Fidesz spoke about the need for space reservation in culture, he expected this from the right-wing intellectuals, and that a new era would begin, where we should enroll the political system into a cultural era, said the Fidesz president, so it seems that this is now the time to start implementing it, not regardless of the fidesz cultural struggle that is going on around the public money, in which the editor-in-chief of the pro-government propaganda fund attacks Andy Vajna, that he does not support sufficiently linear films, and that all the Fidesz leaders who, do not give to God, the national conservative, Christian fundamentalist and so forth, are also under attack. We've had examples in recent weeks of replacing institutional leaders, and it looks like they're pulling the carpet from under Andy Vajna, or at least laying down another carpet, who knows who else. The thing is, spatial reservation is a nice effort, understandably politically, because Fidesz wants to dominate all areas. But the thing is, if you spend any amount of money to finance film works, if there's no thought behind it, if there's no quality behind it, if there's no message that doesn't exclusively aim to rewrite the past, not exclusively for the propaganda interests of Fidesz, then the dog won't be interested. So, on the channels called the zero-view Fidesz public media, you can, of course, broadcast the uninteresting historical films made of billions, but let's not add that: fortunately, it has an attitude-forming effect. That false, really history, not as a frozen political struggle, but as a living, current political battle view we see here in Fidesz, is not really expected to gain ground. Instead of analysing this law in detail, I would like to draw your attention to the thoughts of your fellow faction, L. Simon László. He said that those who see their own failure in the excessive support of liberals no longer exist, Kassák says that works can only argue, be better, smarter, more talented, party loyalty does not replace talent. And I'm going to add that the billions won't replace the talent. But let's continue with L. Simon László:. It is very important to see that in our political community, those educated people who can achieve great performance, who are talented, are able to respond to the challenges of today, and in the meantime, even take on their own political views and can argue, there is little of these educated people. The fact is, therefore, that spiritual performance is lacking here, the fresh thought is lacking. Not to create another waterhead, another money-sharing fund, but perhaps to start and to try to make movies that stand up in the so-called market, according to the interest of the audience today. I am not talking about the cultural market in a bad sense, not the marketisation of all cultural objects and the exclusive financial test, but about whether there will be demand for it, or whether we are actually sinking back to the eras when propaganda films were pushed into Soviet patterns, which only had a viewer because there was nothing else on TV at the time. The bad news is that there are a lot of channels on TV now, and not only is there TV, but there is a movie and internet, so despite the effort, I don't think this new impression of Fidesz internalisation and culture fighting and cultural space reservation will be crowned with success. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-15-32	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister.
u2018-11-15-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your comments. Congressman Gergely Farkas has made several points. I am pleased that we agree that there is a great need for historical films, but at the same time it is worth considering that there is a completely different perception of what constitutes a good historical film. You have an opinion on the Hunyadi film, for example, Congressman Gréczy, another one, perhaps a third one for me. Beyond one point, it is worth entrusting to the creators, directors, screenwriters to formulate what they think is right. In this area, artistic freedom is an important value. By the way, thank you for bringing that to the attention. As regards the accumulation of funds, it is only appropriate to exclude cumulation per film production, because otherwise it would be impossible for a team to work on several films. Perhaps he referred to who received these subsidies, to whom they were close. That's why I remember an example when the director of a state-supported movie went out to protest the government with that momentum. Hungary is a democracy, so this is what is happening, only the Members have made conflicting statements here. [[9.30]] As far as Mrs Gurmai's comment is concerned, I understand you said that this proposal is a step backwards compared to István Hiller's legacy. I would just like to draw your attention to one thing: due to the irresponsible management of the Hungarian Moving Picture Public Foundation, there is a debt of about HUF 10 billion and a deficit, and we do not want to go back to this period. He explained why this regulation is close to the Media Council and MTVA. Well, it's not like we're gonna be able to get the movie activity to the Chamber of Agriculture. As far as Mr Gréczy is concerned, I agree with the aim of seeing these works in as many places as possible, and I also believe that online publication is an important aspect. He said that it would be a nice story if there were more TV films, which is why the TV film initiative is included in this bill. He also said that it was not possible to see how much they would support these films; it is not even the task of the bill amendment proposal to settle this; it will stand up with experts from the film department to decide that. He also said that it would be nice to see how the parties could participate. I'd be careful about that, so let's leave it to the creators, directors, screenwriters to create the works. The parties should argue here in Parliament, we can see that we see different ways, for example, the Hunyadi film script, or you can see it because you brought it up, but there is no need for the parties to participate in this creative process at some point. As far as Bence Tordai's comment is concerned, he said that spiritual achievement is lacking, the fresh thought is lacking. If I recall correctly, you were not here at the beginning of the debate, so I would like to remind you that the films produced with the support of the Film Fund have received a total of 310 international awards in recent years: Oscar Prize, Gold Globes, Grand Prix in Cannes, Berlin Golden Bear, Student Oscar, and the festival jury awarded the Hungarian films with 51 main prizes. If your claim were true, none of this would have happened. Overall, I would like to say to you that our aim is to make the Hungarian film industry a driving force for Hungarian pride, to contribute to the performance of the economy and, if possible, to create jobs and to enrich Hungarian culture with high quality works. We believe that this proposal is an important step in this direction. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-34	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Today we have until 16 o'clock to submit the amendments. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas follows. general debate on the bill amending laws and related laws until closure. The government referral is T/3375. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-15-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are still talking about regulation of a sector of strategic importance in Hungary; it is clear whether we are looking at the contribution to GDP or at the number of employees. If we want to support this with precise figures, we can say that, taking into account the indirect effects, tourism contributed 10.3 percent of the total national product in 2017, while giving a living to 412 thousand Hungarians. The performance of the tourism sector is a record year after year: the year 2017 was the best tourism year of all time, but these excellent figures are expected to be surpassed this year. The growth of tourism, and this is also an important aspect, is drawn by Hungarian tourism in 2018, which shows that the financial scope of Hungarian families is expanding. The processes are therefore positive, but at the same time we think that Hungarian tourism still has growth potential, whether we look at quantity or quality. The purpose of the bill we are discussing is to make use of this opportunity. The legislative proposals on the table can be divided into three categories: digital data provision, priority tourism investments and the processing of guests. As far as the first amending group is concerned, a law of 2017 has already established the National Data Service Centre, and by setting up this centre, it is possible to improve tourism statistics and to make it more effective to combat the black economy. Efficiency gains are a fundamental goal, and perhaps we do not have a debate about the fact that digitisation is one of the most important ways to increase efficiency nowadays; also because the paper reporting obligations so far have put more pressure on accommodation providers than is necessary. On the basis of the bill, the National Tourism Data Service Centre would maintain daily data communication with the software of accommodation service providers and would only provide a comprehensive, up-to-date and orderly reporting route for the organisations concerned using statistical data. This database will also be able to serve the data needs of the organisations concerned. The current bill would regulate the process of identifying the data management centre. In the reporting system, accommodation providers register electronically, ensuring that the basis of this obligation is also laid down by law. The bill also sets out a timetable, and the digital reporting system would enter into force on a gradual basis. In the first round, the organisations accepted by the Agency could use it on a test basis as from 1 January and could then be voluntarily joined, followed by a government decree setting out the dates for further accessions. I think it is important, and I would also like to say here that according to the bill, accommodation management software will be provided free of charge to accommodation providers with up to 8 rooms and 16 seats. The second group of amendments relates to priority tourist destinations. The government has studied the practices of many countries in recent years, and on this basis we can say that the increase in Hungarian tourist potential lies in tourism destinations and in this context in providing complex package of services. The mission of the Tourist Agency is to develop specific programmes for these target regions, with unique experience packages and an individual image. Of course, it also requires investments, but in order for these investments to be made as soon as possible, it has become necessary to harmonise laws and laws concerning the management of certain assets on the basis of professional feedback. To this end, the amendments concern, inter alia, the trust fee, the definition of public tasks, the simplification of procedures and the shortening of time limits. Finally, the third group of amendments relates to the recording of guest data. It is for the development of Hungarian tourism that the hotels have guaranteed and accurate information about their guests in order to enforce any claims against them. Data processing is also justified by foreign law enforcement considerations in the case of foreign nationals. In order to ensure this, accommodation providers record guest data on a secure storage site that guarantees that the data is secure, others do not have access to it, and that they are not in any danger. To this end, the State will establish a hosting service in accordance with the strictest EU standards, including GDPR requirements. Of course, data can only be accessed by those who would already be entitled to do so by law, but these bodies can only request data from the hosting service providers by means of the accommodation service providers. This therefore guarantees the protection of the business interests of accommodation providers, the security of citizens' data and the effective work of law enforcement and immigration bodies. [[9.40]] I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the legislation under the bill is also in line with international practices: in Austria and Germany there is a general registration obligation in France also for foreigners, including EU citizens, and in many cases foreign legislation is stricter than the current draft. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Government has also consulted the Data Protection Authority in writing and that the comments have been dealt with at the norm level. Honourable Members, Dear House, The proposal we are discussing can improve the efficiency, quality of services, improve the quality of statistics, facilitate investment, while laying down clear rules on data processing. For this reason, we believe that it can promote the situation of Hungarian tourism. In view of this, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-11-15-36	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-15-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that the lead speaker of the governing party is performing a different public mission, but we hope that he will be able to replace this speech at a later stage in the debate, as we are also curious about the position of the governing party, although obviously this came about from the presentation. However, we obviously have concerns about the bill, and especially about the National Tourist Data Service Centre, because it is creating a database again by the government that involves threats that in the future, if not by anyone, but by a lot of people who wouldn't even be able to access data in a central database about who used where, when, during what period and what accommodations. One of the reasons for our criticism is obviously that these personal data are very vulnerable data, and it is very dangerous to have it in unauthorized hands. On the other hand, access to such data, whether legally or illegally, can bring economic benefits. Because obviously in all cases where a central database is established and the data of all service providers is stored in a database, these threats always exist, and in all such cases we say so. The whitening of the economy can also obviously be achieved if this system cannot be bypassed by legal, semi-legal and illegal accommodation providers or redirected to some of the tourist accommodation users in this area. There are, of course, serious concerns about the bill in this regard. And the creation itself raises rather interesting circumstances, as in June of this year, a company has won the development of this central software and system in public procurement under interesting conditions, which has been very good with the government and has won a lot of public procurement. Here, for example, there were four applications, and three of them were declared invalid, and interestingly, this one remained standing. For nearly HUF 2 billion, for HUF 1.9 billion, we managed to develop this software, which will then be provided free of charge by the government, according to the bill, for accommodation providers or at least some of them. Tourism is indeed a developing sector, and it has extra potential in Hungary, and we would very much like to see the whitening of tourism being achieved as an objective, and we can support all of its instruments, but at the moment we have serious concerns about the functioning of this system about who will have access to this data and under what circumstances. We are well aware that there are also a number of close-to-government interests in tourism, how, for example, they will be able to benefit from a competitive advantage and economic advantage if they have access to a little more information that shows the instantaneous saturation of accommodations, or, for a given period, it shows the nature of the use of accommodations for a given event, as the government itself pointed out in the explanatory statement that such a purpose is to create a database. Of course, it focuses on a specific business circle, an increasing proportion of tourism and accommodation services in the hands of a close-to-government business circle, and this raises serious questions and concerns in this regard as to whether, through the Hungarian Tourism Agency or otherwise, this circle will benefit from or access to this database. Today, when perhaps the greatest value is information, the data, the XXI. In the 18th century, and even some of the crimes are done through IT systems, against databases, it certainly raises serious security issues. Obviously, there will also be a question of how the Prime Minister can hide friends of the Prime Minister, who are wanted for corruption in their own country, in five-star hotels if it is necessary to register the guests from a foreign police point of view. [[Antal Csárdi: Women's clothing.]] Perhaps women's clothing will not necessarily help, because it will not be possible to solve this without documents. But I'll keep that in parentheses. Of course, if this bill had such an alien police effect, that part of it would certainly be eligible for us. However, in addition to seeing, and having, positive aspects of this law, perhaps from the point of view of the local authorities; from this perspective, my fellow Member will explain in a later speech the comments that we have expressed on how this will possibly help or not help local authorities to recover tourist tax, and on what problems arise in this regard. Because on a local level, I also live in a tourist area called Lake Balaton, so I can see how some accommodation providers or property owners are trying to take advantage of the loopholes, and whether the government will be able to close them with this proposal or with other proposals. So we have a rather ambivalent feeling about the bill, and that is most likely to suggest that we will determine our final position between non-support and residence, and that we will decide on the arguments that will be heard later in the debate and in the response. At first reading, I believe that all of us and many of us in this country have become shocked and a little reliving 1984, the Orwell world, that practically every step of our way is already recorded in a central database tomorrow. Of course, we have serious concerns about this, and we will expect answers from the representative of the government. In the course of the debate, we will also tell you our other concerns. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-38	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-15-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, A man meditates when he receives such a bill and listens to the honourable words of the Secretary of State about how this is happening in your government, someone sitting in a big room telling us what we haven't seen, people, what we don't already know, or how, how, in any case, a segment of the world could still be regulated to death. You said in your exposé a correct statement and a presumption that it is a strategic sector, and that this will result in quantitative and qualitative improvement. Could you please tell me how much these three proposals, in my view, can be regarded as a quantitative increase in tourism and in any way as a qualitative improvement in tourism? [[9.50]] My suspicion, Mr. Secretary, is that you or your bosses are going to China more and more and probably envious not only of yuan's soaring but also of the experience, and there may be conversations with the leaders of the Chinese Communist Party. We've all read recently that there's going to be a system where all Chinese people are being watched, and you'll know what they're doing, and on such a social point scale, someone can go up or down. For some reason, I see that you have envied this thing and are trying to do it in a small and Hungarian way, so it's a bit sour, a little yellower, but it's ours to do it. When a Fidesz government makes a two-sided suggestion, we always think, and I tell you this tactically or as advice, which is the diversion and which is the real will. We're in a big dilemma here, and I'm telling you honestly, because in his own way, they're both amazing. He jumped through wealth management elegantly, and the bill also gave reasons for his elegantly barely dealing with it. In fact, we interpret this as another step into this type of tourism management, operation and operation system, and this non-profit company can even give this thing to a private company. While we are all going to shoot at this bill, this is what my better fellow Member has done, obviously the press is dealing with it, as if we were not aware that this kind of element of this bill, which you mentioned in the middle, might be an important one, and perhaps it will cover more exciting questions for us later. But let's talk about this database. I do not want to repeat what my previous fellow Member has said for a longer time, so I will spare the time of this House, indeed the key issues that he raised, but I would like to record it once again, because we are all reading the paper and watching news, that while we are discussing the bill now, while the entry into force of this bill was announced in June 1st January, the name of Sagencom, which won this public procurement, should also be announced. This company has recently been soaring in the system of national cooperation, winning various public procurements, and they will always end up a little stiffer than winning public procurement. I'm not saying it. It's in the paper that the Orbán family and the Rogán interest circle find each other, that's the bill in which they all found their own calculations. Although we know that in a networked society you can reach everyone in three steps, here you can get to how, how, and how, István Tiborcz appears in one step. So we think, beyond the fact that it is a very tangible and tangible intention to register as much as possible on a continuous basis, that this is clearly a good business for an interest, and I certainly do not think that this is a qualitative improvement for tourism and tourism. Why do you think that if we turn hotel receptions into BKV ticket offices in any way, or don't give us, God, we make airport check-in counters to improve quality in any way. Elegantly, it is in this proposal that the tax office receives data from a statistical point of view. This is when the Hungarian man instinctively picks up his head. We understand the KSH, we understand the municipalities, but the tax office appears in this list. Obviously, you'd say right now if I asked you this question more directly, of course, the whitening and the visibility. But what I'm saying is that every decision we've made over the past decades, which seemed like a good decision at first, has a secondary effect, rather than whitening, that these incomes have come down elsewhere. You see, Mr. Secretary of State, and you can see that this is the only point that tabloid media has taken from this bill, but this is the point that has been ringing in the last few weeks. So it is very easy to see into this situation that, where appropriate, domestic tourism is precisely in the circle of those who pay well where appropriate, but we know that their income is not always from the clean lane, they say in some way that they will spend their income elsewhere. I understand, once again, that the political intention is to take a decisive step in this matter, but my request is that you also think about the consequences. So this database is getting tangled up, and you're gonna see more and more of it, it's right. You don't mind if you don't have any trust in you when you say you won't see this coming, that we're just going to use it for that purpose. In this respect, the confidence index has been played over the past period. It is a strategic sector, I agree. This bill does not add anything to this, nor creates any additional resources, nor creates any additional opportunities. It complicates the matter, increases bureaucracy, and the opportunity to motivate and dominate individual interests, where appropriate, in the context of this, but it creates this. As we know today, I am not as forgiving as my better fellow Member, and we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-40	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-11-15-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I can continue in broad terms where my fellow opposition Members have left off. When we discuss legislation on tourism development, we always accept it sceptically and in doubt, especially when it is marked by the name of Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda. Unfortunately, the experience is that the tourism sector is also a victim of expropriation. The current step also suggests that you would like to check and provide detailed data sources on when and where you were on holiday. And yes, Mr. Secretary of State, this is 1984. Let's not sugarcoat it. 'Cause what are we talking about? We are talking about you writing down in this bill that the National Tax and Customs Office is incapable of examining the tax practices of entrepreneurs. You claim that this requires personal data, which, of course, we will know about your processing habits and God only knows who will get it. But let's keep going. Beyond the fact that this is unacceptable, and the May Other in Politics will obviously not support this, I think that a few words are still worth it. The government had already put its hands on tourism in the previous cycle, and practically indirectly, but it was under state control. This involved three known people, Antal Rogán, Rachel Orbán and Vajna Andrew. Even though Antal Rogán denied that the centralisation measure in the field of tourism would be nationalisation, we take the view that this is not true. It is worth looking at the ownership composition of the accommodations in Balaton, including, for example, the campsites in particular, then we can see precisely that this type of nationalisation, where, as appropriate, should not be considered nationalisation in the sense that it was supposed to be in 1950, but in such a way that economic interests close to the government acquired the property of most of these businesses. We know that tourism is a well-functioning sector, and it works well without any state interference. But you can always refer to something when it comes to tourism. When it is said that the country is not taking advantage of its potential, and for this it is necessary to take measures that can greatly promote development, we understand, but I think the point is that you always want to take control of them. I think that if someone has information on the operation of the background institutions that are working on tourism today, then we know exactly what personal, coordinated actions are taking in the background. [[10.00]] In organising certain programmes, I think that a lot of impact assessments should be carried out. I know that the new system is suitable for this and allows these impact assessments and other investigations to provide additional resources to those close to the government. I must stress, ladies and gentlemen, that tourism is not going to be better, or that more people will come to Hungary or to certain events because you provide the venue or you made the campaign video. This is much more complex and, in my opinion, highly linked to the country's perception. The country's judgment, let's say sad and sorry, is very bad. This is clearly due to your governance. We also know that after April, with the establishment of the fourth Orbán government, the entire tourism was transferred to the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. This has also brought significant changes in numbers, as the target of tourism development in the planned budget of next year is over HUF 70 billion. It's a tangible amount and increase, that's exactly what it is, just to sense this magnitude, which was taken from those who were counting on state aid for the savings method of housing. However, it raises many questions as to how the HUF 70 billion will be used, and what guarantees there are that this infinite framework, above which the Minister of Propaganda decides, will facilitate the tourism development of Hungary. Unfortunately, we do not know that, and we do not know that from this bill. Antal Rogán said in 2016 that only those who welcome guests can be successful, and we have to show everyone that Hungary is a hospitable people. I agree perfectly with that, but I think it would be appropriate to add that, if this proposal is adopted, you will have the exact details of the people who have stayed in your home accommodations, as you will be obliged to do so at the National Tourist Data Service Centre. Beyond the fact that this is nonsense, I am convinced and we believe it is unnecessary. According to LMP, the control function to justify this completely unnecessary collection of data can be carried out by the National Tax and Customs Office. Or say face to face that the NAV is not able to do this only then it is not the way to do it, but the operation of the NAV should be reviewed. Dear House, Apart from the region of Lake Balaton, the other major tourist destination is Budapest. I think we can agree on that again. For me, Budapest is my heart, but if you really look at Budapest as a tourist center, then perhaps you should stop your policies where you look at Budapest with anger, look at developments in Budapest with anger, and see what infrastructure improvements are needed in Budapest. Because if you seriously believe that Budapest is a priority, I dare say calmly that it is a primary tourist destination, then perhaps there is no dispute between us that the previous government decision that prohibited the Municipality of Budapest from buying new buses for the time of the metro renewal is completely unacceptable. If they really looked at Budapest as a tourist centre, as a destination, an excellent destination, as a flagship for domestic tourism, then perhaps the renovation of metro 3 should not have brought the obsolete Russian trains from Moscow on a buddy basis, but all tourists from Budapest and all visitors deserved to be modern, the XXI. The train is equipped with high-quality trains that meet the requirements of the 20th century on the metro line 3. I think that if we are really looking at Budapest and, a little more broadly, Central Hungary at an excellent tourist destination, then we should not destroy community transport and agglomeration community transport in the capital, but we should work on it, Mr. Secretary of State, to have a well-usable tariff community. Let me give you an example: I can imagine a tariff community that is similar to the Vienna Community Transport System, which, by the way, divided Vienna's public transport into zones. I think you should know, and I think you know that one of the outer zones is called Sopron, honourable government representatives. I think that it could be done at a central-Hungarian transport centre to become a tariff community, even to Cegléd or Szolnok, where appropriate, indicating a circle of 100 kilometres, including zones. But you're not doing that, but you're destroying any system that doesn't have any business potential for you yet, and any development that might have helped, for example, the purposes of the bill's justification, is impossible just because you think there is a national bus industry. It's been four years since then, I think, but I still haven't met any Hungarian buses. I know exactly what quality subway 3 offers, according to you, the service standards of its refurbished, I think, outdated Russian trains. To sum up everything, I think that primarily because of data collection, and secondly because we know precisely that the aim is to occupy tourism, the May Other Politics cannot support this bill. I think that if you were serious about what was in the bill, you should not start with such a law, but with an approach that helps to develop regions whose tourism is really important, so that Budapest and the development of all these tourist centres in the country should also be promoted. If you have these, then you can think about what law you need if you have to, in order for this to develop further. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita and Tordai Bence applaud.]]
u2018-11-15-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I now give the floor to Mrs Szabó Timea, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-11-15-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are beginning our speeches by saying that nothing seems sacred to the Orbáns. After all, we see only this week what legislative amendments have been tabled and what they are trying to force before the end of the year, from the total destruction of the right of assembly to the reconnaissance of state property, to the complete breaking of data protection laws. Right now, with this bill, they want state officials to know exactly when and where they are on holiday in Hungary. The proposal aims to create a gigantic database, but it is very interesting that the Hungarian Tourism Agency has been preparing for the introduction of this for more than half a year, since the result for the public procurement of the IT system was announced in June. It is interesting why this amendment is being made here now. The statistical reporting has already been introduced, with a view to the room capacity of the hosts and the whitening of the sector actually being achieved. However, it is highly incomprehensible and unacceptable to ask for, record and upload almost all the information of the guests, which, in addition to natural identities, is a much broader name and date of birth. So you have to give your mother's name, all the details in the identity document, the number of the document and the others. [[10.10]] The reception of a hotel with this bill will be much more like a road certification or an airport security check than a guest bet. Compared with previous government data management laws, a world in Orwell is really starting to emerge: the government can observe with cameras that the citizen is getting on the BKV in front of his home, or taking money in the bank for a long family weekend trip, observing that they arrive on the highway to the accommodation, and will now have specific information on how long a family stays there from meth. This solution is not unique in Europe, and the data of all guests in Austria and Germany are recorded electronically, as is the case in Hungary, and is accessible to authorised bodies. Foreign guests, including those who have the right to free movement, have similar regulations in France, we know that, or even in Slovakia, in any case the data of the guests can be verified by police or foreign police, but still there are serious legal questions regarding the regulations in Hungary and the system you have submitted since the regulations introduced this year, which make it compulsory for the service provider to delete such data at the request of the data subjects to do so without delay. However, this proposal does not cover this at all. The explanatory statement of the proposal does not address very little about the designation of a new trustee of facilities created in the context of priority public tourism investments. Even though it is only possible to appoint a 100% state-owned non-profit firm, since the last amendment of the property law, anyone, whether private or private, can be appointed as a shareholder of public companies, and their decision will have to be carried out by the public trustee. We have seen that you have been good at data reporting and data collection before, that an EU directive has been transposed in such a way that you can obtain data not only from flights outside Europe, but also from roads within Europe. However, I am suggesting that many of the EU countries have not done so. Of course, you've been given the opportunity, and you've collected all the information you can find on flights, not only where a person travels by plane, but you'll also have information, namely the Tibetans, the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, exactly on which day, from which city, with whom he travelled, where he lived, what his e-mail address, what his phone number, what kind of luggage he took with him, and how much he paid for the flight. So we can see clearly that you are creating a surveillance system in practically every field in Hungary, and Big Brother now wants to complete what you have already started with this law. The other part of the bill describes the winner of the procurement of data collection software and the economic part of the tourism area. We know that the winner of the software procurement is Sagemcom Magyarország Kft., which has done quite a lot in NER procurement in recent years. This company could also deliver the automatic control units needed to connect the food and beverage machines to the tax authority for HUF 3.9 billion net instead of the originally planned HUF 2.4 billion. The company also used subcontractors, including MobilSign Kft., who also took the e-signature patent of Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda. The only owner of the company is Dr. Balázs Kertész, a lawyer in downtown, the former wife of one of Antal Rogán's main confidants, Petra Bratislava. Another interesting thing about this is that the development of the automatic monitoring IT system of Magyar Posta also required a certificate, which is linked to the inventors of Antal Rogán, Hungaard Kft. issued and issued by no one else. After all this, it is not surprising that Sagemcom has achieved another success, because the managing director is Zoltán Dubi, who had a business earlier, TSDM Holding Kft., which was now in liquidation, in which István Tiborcz Orbán was married to Ráhel Orbán through the Green Investments & Solutions Kft., which was added to it at the time. By the way, four companies have submitted applications for public procurement, three of which have somehow become invalid that they are not declared. Not surprisingly, the press then said that István Tiborcz and Ráhel Orbán's moonyard met in a two billion-dollar public procurement. According to the Association of Hungarian Hotels and Restaurants, this whole exercise you are conducting is very fortunate, because it whitens the sector and reduces the administrative burden on businesses. But we do know that László Esvid, the leader of this alliance, has participated in several events of the Századvég Economic Research Centre in recent years, and has also written a study on tourism for the government research centre. So to put it mildly, let us have doubts that this is an impartial opinion. The proposal is therefore clearly about making the business circles of István Tiborc and Antal Rogán an even greater asset, even more suitable for the tourism industry. This legislation is the result of their lobbying activities, and practically nobody else benefits from this legislation. The property management rights of public tourist properties can migrate to unknown interests, while the gigantic database of guests' data offers a pretty serious opportunity for abuse. On behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to call on you to be very careful with this Big Brother logic, by wanting to collect all the data on everyone. Don't come with this because no one in Hungary believes that you, of course, handle these data in accordance with the law, that they comply with EU standards, that they will not be an example of any serious abuse, and we know exactly what you are about to do. They are so terrified that they will not give, God, that they will lose the next election, that they will take every opportunity and every opportunity to gather data about voters, their own voters and their own non-selections, to abuse them, to threaten hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarian citizens, to blackmail them in order to cement their own powers. On behalf of the Dialogue, I ask you to come to your senses, to stop this kind of data collection, to return to the path you have taken 30 years ago, on the path of democracy. Stop collecting data, monitoring and cementing their own power in Putin, and stop stealing the state's wealth from under the people, and try to transfer and transfer everything to István Tiborcz, where to Lőrinc Mészáros, we know exactly that it doesn't matter, because the final stop is Viktor Orbán's family. On behalf of the Dialogue, I call on you to withdraw this bill, of course the Dialogue will not support it. Thank you.
u2018-11-15-44	Thank you, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-15-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As I heard the speeches by the opposition speakers, I thought of the simple man who was being joked about talking about anything, and he always thought of the same thing. This is the case for you, too, when a bill is drafted, which, fortunately, even Szabó Timea acknowledges is being followed by international examples, since Austria, Germany or France has the same type of reporting obligation, data is collected electronically in the same way, and even in these countries, where data and information are collected directly from the secret services collected from foreign travellers in accommodation. So I don't know why you have to think that if the government makes any professional proposal to the House, in any case when it introduces European examples in Hungary, it is also the task of the professional association, which, by the way, has been called pro-government by Szabó Timea, who is also a god in the profession, who has been awarded serious recognition of the system, that is to clean up the economy. [[10.20]] As Parliament's representative, I think that all pro-government and opposition representatives should also support the proposals aimed at further reducing and eliminating the grey and black zone of the Hungarian economy, since all Hungarian businesses need the clean ground where they can compete on a level playing field, so that better service and better price can prevail. In this bill, we want to regulate three important areas. The first area is the operation of the National Tourism Data Service Centre, which you have mentioned so much. The reporting centre has already been established, and we need to create a legal background for this operation, which guarantees that everyone will comply with the reporting obligation, in Hungarian, it will be mandatory for all service providers to record the data of those who use the accommodation space service and provide these data to the Centre; and that the rules of data processing also comply with the obligations laid down in other laws. There will be no specialty or any different practice than that of other Western European service providers, as these data will have to be transmitted to the recording centre in Germany and Austria within 24 hours. There is a difference between different countries as to how long these data should be kept. For example, Austria has the longest regulation, where they are obliged to store and record these data for seven years. So I think that any suggestion on the part of opposition representatives that, with the data of Hungarian and foreign guests, anyone would be thinking about database building or other activities is ridiculous and has absolutely nothing to do with reality. The second part of the bill amends or clarifies the rules for priority tourism investments in order to enable the development of state-owned property in tourism priority areas to be as much and to the greatest extent possible. The law on this subject aims to enable these state-owned properties to be leased for up to 30 years or to be transferred to property recovery in order to achieve substantial improvements and investments in long-standing, abandoned or long-developed real estate in these areas. Here is a dissonance, which is the current legislation, the 2016 CLVI on state tasks in the development of tourism areas. Law and the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. It is among the law, which is what the current legislation seeks to settle. I think we can safely signal and say that this is a technical amendment. Finally, the third area that this bill deals with is the recording of guests' data. The draft law, which was administered by the Ministry of Interior, on the amendment of certain domestic laws, has come up in order to ensure the reliable recording of accommodation guest data for national security, law enforcement, law enforcement and foreign law purposes and to ensure that guest data can be obtained electronically by the bodies concerned. There's nothing new about that either. This is the same for the moment in France, it works in Germany and it works in Austria. I think that this is in the interest of all Hungarian citizens, because for the safety of all of us, this data must be made available to law enforcement agencies. According to the original concept, each accommodation provider should have built an interface to the National Security Service at its own expense, which would have resulted in significant costs. Compared to this, the current rules provide that the law enforcement and national security data management reasons should not appear and should be recorded at the central repository of the data. In this case, it will be the owner of the National Tourism Data Service Centre, the Hungarian Tourism Agency, that records these data, and the bodies that are entitled to handle these data and access to the data will be able to access these data through the Hungarian Tourism Agency. Therefore, service providers do not need to have direct contact with any detective or law enforcement authority. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up that this bill is intended and aimed at introducing a system for which there is absolutely an example in Europe, and which is intended in all respects to provide, on the one hand, as much statistics as possible on domestic tourism, so that we can determine developments, the directions of future developments, in the possession of these data and information. On the other hand, in particular as regards the movement of foreign guests, appropriate law enforcement and national security bodies are able to obtain information that will help prevent any terrorist activity or any crime in Hungary from happening. For this reason, this bill is intended to ensure the safety of all Hungarian citizens. I ask you to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-15-46	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the pre-notified speaker, Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, a better Member.
u2018-11-15-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The law on state tasks in the development of tourism areas and the related legislation are amended before the House. Please allow me to respond one by one to the amendments concerned and to begin with what has been mentioned at the very least today, with the new economic organisation to be set up to implement, operate, maintain and exploit key public tourism investments. I'd like to suggest a name. It wasn't easy to put it together, but I'd like to give you a name, because yesterday, an agency... the Investment Agency will be accepted in connection with state-owned construction investments. I recommend that this new company, Zrt., be called the national ortime agency. It was not easy to put together this acronym from the names of Orbán, Rogán, Tiborcz, Mészáros and Vajna, but I will give you this patent free of charge. We don't know what it's gonna be about. What we see is that you mostly play everything in the Balaton area for these families. It's just outrageous! Yes, this is your proposal, a new economic company, not the Hungarian Tourism Agency, now we need another one. I would like to turn to the point that my fellow Members have been pushing. When I first read the bill, believe me, I didn't think about the secondary purpose of this bill of very concern from the point of view of data protection. I first approached this issue from the point of view of the municipalities. In Siófok we also face the fact that the apartment houses are built on a pile on the shore of Lake Balaton, thus preventing the beautiful Balaton panorama not in one case. They are confronted with the fact that, indeed, it is very difficult to collect tourist tax from these apartment houses, as we know that the property in the apartment houses is mostly purchased by the owners for investment purposes and is providing a accommodation service, but the inspectors are not always able to get in there. In fact, I daresay that these apartments, the size of which is hundreds only in Siófok, have fallen out of this tourist tax cycle. At first, I thought how good it would be for the municipalities to finally, because they too will be able to manage the controls better and to achieve higher tax on tourism and, of course, higher tax on business spending these properties. But then you have to read it again or again, and you notice there's a pass in it that I just can't place. The access rights to statistical data are defined for four actors. This Hungarian Tourism Agency, the local government, I think, always the relevant local government has access to its own data, the state tax authority and the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. [[10.30]] It is in the law that the data of the guests can be checked by police and foreign police bodies that is absolutely correct, because it will have to be handed over, I think, the document, as it will also have to be recorded in this system, but I am concerned that the Central Statistical Office should be provided for statistical purposes in a manner suitable for individual identification. So there is nothing else here but that data will not only be in this one system, but they will migrate to the Central Statistical Office through another system, which can cause further IT gaps. So it's not just going to be in one place, it's going to be uniquely identified at the Central Statistical Office. I would consider this, because so far, the Statistical Office has managed aggregated data and, in view of the nation and age group, the tourism sector has been analysed, and reports have been issued to acknowledge that we are talking about a leading sector of the Hungarian economy, but this is a concern, and I hope that the Central Statistical Office will not be able to handle these data in a unique way. Although you have repeatedly said that this system is also working in Germany, France, Slovakia has been left out of this, I have not heard Croatia. Then your goal is to make sure that those who do not want to know which hotel they spend and how many days with go to neighbouring countries and then increase the GDP of neighbouring countries? Because that's a goal. Then they won't go to Sopron, they'll go ten kilometers away where they don't have that obligation, and then they'll spend these money. I trust that you will reconsider and withdraw this bill, or reconsider, and even tighten up the provisions on data processing, and I believe that the debate has also developed that opposition parties cannot support it in this form. I trust their good intentions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-15-48	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group.
u2018-11-15-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make two comments to this debate. One is that the bill can practically be referred to as lex Orbán Rachel or lex Mészáros Lőrinc, because these improvements, which are being made here, are practically in the development themselves, the Fidesz business circles that are already scorning their feet will have new opportunities for growth, and I think that this will definitely be... and thus the Orbán family will get more billions. We do not take this kindly, and I think that sooner or later, obviously, whenever the change of government takes place, there must be serious legal consequences. And the other one is this whole surveillance thing. This is nothing but collecting data on Hungarians. A French citizen may not have a problem with such statistics, because he doesn't remember what the government would use them for or use them for lawlessness, but what we do know is that you have forgotten that the Rogán Ministry is watching Facebook now. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And he's also watching the comments. So why not think that you will use this data to create some sort of new III/III system and blackmail Hungarian citizens, because with these data obtained, you can blackmail political opponents, their family members, but also ordinary Hungarian citizens by trying to collect these data from them. I think that this proposal is completely unacceptable, and not just because it brings back the terrible practice of party time, which we thought 30 years ago, almost 30 years ago, is the time to go beyond them, and so one understands in particular why you did not give your name to the public of the agent files, and why you were the ones who drilled this law, even though you consider yourself enemies of communism and the great system changers. This is when it turns out that those guts have not passed even after 30 years from the party state that you represent, which is typical of the MSZMP, and I find this extremely worrying and even outrageous. The Democratic Coalition cannot support this bill in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-15-50	Thank you, Congressman Gréczy. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister.
u2018-11-15-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I see that someone has sent a call around to the opposition parties. [[Defiance.]] In order to use the terms "Orwell" and "Big Brother" and "Big Brother" as many times as possible, but even that is not a reason, honourable Members and gentlemen, to make up lies, especially as the speeches show that the government has put into Hungarian practice practices that are internationally standard practice. You know that very well. I would like to emphasise once again that the data can only be accessed by those who are authorised by the law to do so anyway, only to perform a specific task, and the data will be deleted after a year. I would also like to say to you once again that the Government agreed with the National Data Protection Authority before the submission and incorporated the written proposals into the submission. Then let's be specific, I suggest, so let's look at the international exercises. Let's say Austria: in such cases the name, date of birth, nationality, country of origin, postal code, in the case of foreign guests, the type of travel document, the date of issue, the date of arrival and departure. In France: first and last name, place of birth and time, nationality, all accommodation owners must complete a police information document, therefore a police information document! with their foreign guests. Then look at Germany: all accommodations are obliged to register by law, the law there, except for health resorts and corporate resorts, electronic systems can be used to fill out guest information and register the guest, the guests manually write the notification form, this is also mentioned in the German law. The Mrs Jobbik said that perhaps the Hungarians will go to Slovakia, because there is no such regulation. I have news for you that there is such a regulation there, so I would like to say that we: the accommodation provider is obliged to verify his foreign identity, introduce his foreign citizenship and birth data into the guest book, fill out the official notification form, and send it to the regional foreign police office within five days of the check-in; it is also possible to do so by electronic means. So there's this kind of regulation that you're talking about, which shows that what you're saying is untrue. Maybe it was the idea of the LMP, the statement was, I don't see it here anymore? Mr Csárdi is no longer here, perhaps he said that there are people here looking at Budapest with anger. I would like to say ten developments from the first run, which can be interpreted from a tourist point of view: the renewal of the Tide, the Museum of Applied Arts, the 4 metro, it was the government that finished, the renewal of Széll Kálmán tér, the renewal of the University of Public Service, the renewal of Kossuth Lajos tér, the Ferenciek Square, the Liszt Academy, the Erkel Theatre, the Budapest Music Center, the Várkert Bazaar. Now I was able to write ten on the first run, but I could continue the line for a long time, so the statement about the developments in Budapest is not correct either. By the way, last year we had 12 million guests, as I said, we closed a record year, they spent 30 million guest nights in Hungary, so if I look at it compared to 2010, the number of guests increased by 59 percent. And if the opposition asks, because there was such a question as to how we know how the government will use the available resources, let me mention, for example, the Kisfaludy programme, which represents support for hotels and pensioners, with a value of 300 billion between 2017 and 2030. This means primarily rural accommodation development. [[10.40]] All in all, I would like to thank you for your contributions, especially those which, in addition to political accusations, have included professional proposals. I would like to assure you that all the points of the bill are designed to ensure that the level of Hungarian tourism is achieved. I think that this is also a common interest because it is not only a driving sector of the economy, but also one of the priority areas of patriotism. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-52	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, They have the opportunity to submit amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain transport laws until closure. The government referral is T/3295. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-15-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since 2010, improving the quality of life and safety of people and strengthening the country's competitiveness is also a priority for the government in the field of transport policy. The sector's efforts are to raise the quality of transport and ensure its sustainability. Together, these criteria define the objectives of professional policy, the very significant improvements made to achieve them, the development of instruments and legal institutions to facilitate investment and ensure the smooth, cost-effective operation of the transport sector. The current bill before this House will help us achieve our goals by fine-tuning these instruments. The main reasons for the proposed amendments are technical progress, consistency with related legislation, in particular with the General Administrative Regulation Act, implementation of EU legislative harmonisation and the need for legislative clarification. The bill includes the following key elements for each part of transport. In the context of transport infrastructure investments, it provides an opportunity to set up targets for the extraction of specified mineral resources for other transport infrastructure investments, which are considered to be of major national importance, as well as for faster, more economical, less environmental implementation. The government also considered the experience of law enforcement and development in the implementation of highways, and revised its position on the need for the fast track as a category. The amendment of the Toll Act makes it easier for road users to use pre-paid sections crossing the state border. According to the amendment, in the case of paid sections relating to public finances, cross-border traffic may subsequently purchase its entitlement on the first possible spot. The rule on the designation of the mandatory sections as a guideway is also amended, according to which, in the event of a permanent diversion of more than 31 days, the current exemption of the sections designated as the guideway is abolished in order not to allow the use of these sections to be possible to avoid the obligation to pay tolls in a permanent manner. In the field of driver training, the purpose of the amendment is to improve road safety and reduce the administrative burden on customers and the waiting times for examinations by installing the test tasks of state road drivers to an independent state-owned organisation. The improvement of the conditions for cycling is supported by an amendment to the interpretation of the law, which clarifies that the assets generated by the value-enhancing investments carried out by the road operator on municipal bicycle roads will not remain the property of the road operator, but will be transferred free of charge to the competent municipality. The amendments to the Aviation Act ensure full consistency with the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act and the coordination of the time limits for the administration of military aviation and civil aviation authorities. In addition, the amendment contains clarification on the basis of harmonisation of laws. It widens the possibility of exemption from the procedural fee of organisations initiating proceedings with the aviation authority. The 2005 CLXXXIV on the professional investigation of air, rail and water traffic accidents and other traffic incidents. The amendment of the Act serves a legal harmonisation objective and promotes the effective employment of the safety organisation. The amendment of two additional laws is also necessary in order to harmonise EU legislation and to prepare for the inevitable market opening under EU rules. As regards this amendment of the Railway Transport Act, it lays down guarantees to ensure the impartial and impartial operation of the railway infrastructure manager within vertically integrated undertakings, such as the holding structure within the MÁV group, in accordance with the related EU Directive. This is necessary in order to ensure a level playing field for freight and passenger transport companies in railway infrastructure. The purpose of the amendment to the Passenger Transport Act is also to bring the legislation into line with the provisions of the EU directives. The proposed amendment establishes a legal framework for market surveillance of road passenger transport services, as in the case of rail market surveillance rules. This will make it possible to impose sanctions on service providers who fail to comply with the provisions on the carriage of passengers by bus and coach. The legislation is particularly timely in view of the opening of the bus and coach road passenger market in the European Union in 2019. Market surveillance enables domestic bus undertakings to prepare for market opening requirements in a well-ordered and regulated market. Dear House, The amendment of individual transport laws covers several areas of the transport sector and its adoption is intended to implement the measures necessary to implement the government's objectives. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/3295 on the amendment of certain laws relating to transport matters. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-54	Thank you, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-15-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains clarification and forward-looking provisions on certain transport issues in a number of regulatory areas. The bill includes amendments to a number of sectoral regulations, and one of the main points of the motion is the so-called railway package, which meets the requirements of harmonisation arising from our membership of the European Union. The purpose of the proposal is to introduce the necessary legislative changes to the legislation in force in the field of transport. The amendments serve to make transport infrastructure investments more efficient and to modernise the existing regulatory environment. The proposal proposes, inter alia, the introduction of market surveillance in order to facilitate the efficient and smooth functioning of the bus and coach passenger market and to promote fair and effective competition in the market. The measure will enable domestic companies to prepare in good time for operating on an orderly, regulated market in the bus and coach road passenger market, which will open in 2019. Dear House, The amendment also provides for the possibility that, in the case of road constructions involving all private capital, the Minister may allow the building permit to be registered in the name of the organisation providing 100% private resources and to carry out the construction tasks. [[10.50]] With this amendment, the time to implement each investment may be significantly shortened. The bill also covers the training of driving and the examination and the relevant provisions of the examiners. According to the amendment of the law, the training and further training of driver examiners, technical examiners, instructors and school leaders will be carried out in the future by KTI Nonprofit Kft. carry out tests, while the test centres would also carry out the re-training of road drivers, the supervision of training, the examination of road transport professionals, the supervision of training and the tasks related to the qualification of road drivers. In the proposal, amendments to certain transport sectors are initiated by the government at a specific point. As regards air transport, it will make it easier to designate airport noise protection zones as set out in the draft. The designation of otherwise costly and lengthy noise protection zones should only be made for airports whose protection zones for noise protection do not extend beyond airports. The amendment reduces the financial burden on airports which otherwise have minimal traffic. With regard to the railway package, the principle of free access to domestic rail markets should be extended to a greater degree of integration of certain European railway areas, and the management of infrastructure managers should also be reformed to ensure equal access to infrastructure. An important objective is to strengthen the independence of infrastructure managers, to ensure non-discriminatory access for new railway companies and to ensure better use of infrastructure. Taking into account passenger transport services, in order to open the market for domestic passenger services, railway undertakings should be granted access to rail infrastructure in all Member States under fair, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions. Railway undertakings shall have the right to take passengers at any station and to provide for them to land at another station. With regard to cycling routes, the government supports further development of safe cycling in terms of increasing popularity, sustainability, climate protection, tourism, national economy and health aspects. On the basis of this intention, the Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. will take place in the Road Transport Act. to clarify in an interpretative way the provisions relating to the development of bicycle roads. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important for the government to ensure continuous development in the transport sectors in Hungary. The bill contains a number of measures and clarifications which improve the conditions for domestic transport in all sectors, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-56	Thank you, Mr László Böröcz. I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-15-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The only thing left out of the list of priorities in the words of the Secretary of State is that of the government's transport policy objectives, which is that the Mészáros family is growing more and more. So let's add this. The bill before us would amend 12 previous laws, and as it can be seen from my good manners, I don't even like salad in the form of food, not in this form, as it came here. It is therefore difficult for us to do so, since it makes the final resolution difficult. There are elements of this legislative amendment that we can truly wholeheartedly support, in any professional sense at all. However, there are some that need to be said, which will be totally unacceptable. Let's start at the beginning, and maybe this will be an example of us not wanting to make a knot in the kaka, which is eligible, and we will support it. The amendment of Law No I of 1988 on road transport is such a thing. Training and further training of driver examiners, technical examiners, instructors, school leaders will be transferred from technical engineering institutions to the KTI Institute of Transport Sciences Nonprofit Kft., which is a ministerial background institution. Official authorisation shall remain with the Transport Authority. The amendment is, in our opinion, eligible, because although this is not included in the explanatory statement; so look here, we will also help you a little bit. We tell you that the task is indeed done by a government background institution, so one-handed care can help to strengthen the background of the instructors of driver training, to bring training together, and to align exam requirements with training, and to close any loopholes. In the continuation of the activities of the Technical Examination Officers, the proposal includes a tightening up. Article 2 As technical examiner, only persons who are authorised by the Transport Authority may act as technical examiners. The amendment is technically sound, and once again, it is eligible. It's 13-14. § removes from the law the concept of a high-speed road invented by the Orbán government and ended with a nasty failure and the specific parameters defined for this purpose. The closing roads will no longer be the elements of the motorway network, but will be transferred to the main roads, where they have already been from a transport professional point of view, leaving the legal order for a short-term political illusion. Other related points 2 and 8 of the proposal, namely the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act and Act LIII of 2006 on the acceleration and simplification of the implementation of the priority investments in the national economy However, the amendment of the law raises questions. The Mining Act 15-16. I spare you the opportunity to quote this and to read it. Conclusion: this is once again one of their countless amendments to the law, which ensure the primacy of the National Economy Act compared to sectoral regulation. The existence of the National Economy Act is, in many respects, as damaging as the elimination of the current governance as the environmental and nature protection institutional system, which is taking place today. It should not be the needs of transport development, but the requirements of environmental and nature protection, to determine the establishment of a production site and the fate of the materials extracted from it, so to speak, which cannot be used. The proposal is therefore dangerous because it is not coherent with environmental legislation, and the application of the National Economy Act to environmental control is limited in time and also in terms of the applicable stakeholders and procedures. So we do not support this amendment. I think I've made it very clear why I didn't. The proposed amendment to the National Economy Priority Investment Act is also not acceptable. That's 51. §, supplementing the law allows the creation of a so-called target production site within a 10-10 kilometer latitude of the linear plant of sand, gravel, clay, mineral raw material. The new provision will, of course, also allow for the acceleration of environmental and nature conservation procedures, the decommissioning of civil control and resistance to the public, and ultimately the total negligeation of environmental and nature conservation interests. How can we say yes to that? Well, you don't. XCVII of 1995 on air transport I would like to make one single observation in the amendment of law. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: In the case of § 3, the supplement specifies the scope of airports for which at least an anti-noise zone shall be designated in the area of the airport. This obligation has been extended to all airports in the regulation so far. Relaxation of regulation in the long term is, in our opinion, a serious risk and involves a number of foreseeable but now ignored conflicts in the system. The traffic of small airports is not constant, but may vary and increase as time passes. [[11.00]] If, in the absence of a protection zone, they build on the surrounding areas, and in the absence of a protection zone, they can do so legally, and there is a permanent population moving there, the increasing traffic creates a persistent conflict between the operator and the population. Real estate is devalued, but the operator keeps his hands up, saying that he's done everything legally, and in this form he'll be right. Eventually, the withdrawal of environmental safety guarantees for business reasons will suffer a great deal of damage. We can accept, support and have no problem with the amendment of laws on water transport and the motorway network. However, there is more to the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. to amend the law. Even the opening is shocking, my fellow Members. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 3 introduces a new concept of the construction, financing of railway tracks, infrastructure and the infrastructure manager's entitlements. What is different from one of the most criticized practices of the last eight years of Gyurcsány by Fidesz, the so-called PPP system, a lied merger for public-private cooperation, with which public money can be unscrupulously pumped not only during investments, but also during maintenance and operation. After all, the railway infrastructure is much more effectively... asked to put the more effective one in quotes, which will be more effective by your stooges. So in such a way it can be more effective than on motorways, where nice users are directly confronted with horrific motorway charges. This is where the state will take care of itself. In future budgets, not only a motorway availability fee, but also a railway access fee of 100 billion. The question is that what appears as an opportunity in an EU directive is why it is necessary for you to make it an element of domestic law, taking the risk that sooner or later there will be a politician and an oligarch who will take advantage of this opportunity, and you can say that we are constantly slaughtering, but let's face it, this is not prejudicating, but rather post judgment, experience. Yes, Mr. Oberstrómanführer will come forward and take advantage of these opportunities. Article 38 is replaced by the following: § 4 details the conditions of outsourcing and the evidence that the infrastructure manager is in any event responsible for the tasks outsourced. So the outsourcing is ultimately a bad thing. Unacceptable! With a figure of speech borrowed from you, it's dangerous. The amendment of the laws on the professional investigation of traffic accidents and safety incidents and on the NAV is also eligible, not the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. Amendment of Law No 1. The amendments will also begin by broadening conceptual definitions. That's 53. Paragraph 1 introduces first the concept of a transfer ticket, which is a ticket for successive rail services operated by one or more railway undertakings. While the aim is to achieve the full interoperability of Community transport services, at least on paper, this is unfortunately achieved only in small steps in Hungary. They're changing the law so that the transfer between MÁV and GYSEV can fit into one ticket. Instead of doing so, they would involve local, inter-local bus, rail and shipping Community transport providers in the system, which would, of course, not be a transfer ticket, but an integrated ticket for a given destination, independent of a service provider. The next new concept is the concept of high-speed passenger services, which means lines capable of speeds of at least 250 km/h. The amendment has two political announcements promising the construction of high-speed railway lines on Budapest-Pozsony-Warsó and Budapest-Kolozsvár routes. We find both ideas flawed. I'll explain why. Our connection to the high-speed European network really begins on the Budapest-Bratislava line, but it does not continue towards Warsaw, but towards Vienna. If there is something to be done by the Hungarian government, then the construction of this phase will take place when the Austrian capital reaches the first high-speed lines from the west or the north. Our connection to the long-term network is crucial, not to design and finance network elements that are unrealisticly traceable and remote across Europe, and especially not in an insularity. The designation of the Budapest-Kolozsvár route through the Király Pass can be a technical, economic and environmental nightmare. Not to mention the establishment of completely unnecessary, never-reimbursing capacity. In this, it is perfectly similar to the Budapest-Kelebia line, which, unfortunately, is now 700 billionaires on the threshold of realization, which would be just a normal 160 km/h track. Cluj-Napoca and Székelyland would not need a high-speed railway built in 2040, but by yesterday, today, but most importantly tomorrow, if we look at reality, they would need a 120-160 km/h conventional rail connection for 22 and 23 hours. Péter Szijjártó and his Romanian colleague do not know what they are talking about when they promise high-speed railways today, when, let's just see the reality: between Budapest-Kolozsvár, three trains travel every day for 400 kilometers with 8 hours 30 minutes, with a capacity of about 600 people/day. Two of these train pairs reach Miercurea Ciuc in 720 kilometers with 14-15 hours of travel. The average speed of international fast trains in both directions is approximately 47-49 km/h. But not only the social transport link between the motherland and the Seclerland is tragic. This is exponentially true for internal transport in Szeklerland. There are only two fast trains a day between Marosvásárhely and Miercurea Ciuc. One of them is Harghita-IC, which is launched from Budapest. In addition, local passenger trains still exist for six and a half hours at 190 km. That's a 30-mile-an-hour average. There are words, but there is no action for three decades. Szeklerland lives in complete separation from Budapest and from its own capital city. I don't understand where the Orbán government lives. In a bag, really, if you can't see these realities? Not necessarily a showable sign, but this snail-slow service between Hungary and Romania is carried out between today's young Hungarians only with hairy-wheeled trains with hairy windows, all surfaces, including seat hoods, with dirty, stinky and, where appropriate, ripped-out hen feathers, with cars and motorcars for the pre-89 conditions. Compared to this, please, fellow Members, the Hungarian BZ is a real Orient Express. That's 54. § imposes a new administrative burden on local bus and public transport authorities, but I do not think I will have time to do so in this circle. I think I'm gonna need another two-minute speech because one of the dogs is buried in this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-58	Thank you, Congressman Ander Balázs. I now give the floor to Attila Móring József, lead speaker, notary of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-15-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us contains amendments to a number of sectoral regulations. Typically, the measures are justified by the changes that form a uniform legal system and by addressing practical issues arising from the application of the law. Addressing the need for harmonisation arising from EU membership is also an essential element of the draft law. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. EU Directive No 1 amended Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a single European railway area for the purpose of opening up the market for domestic passenger services and managing rail infrastructure, so that it should be transposed into domestic law. In addition to legal harmonisation, the related legislation, such as the General Administrative Regulation Act, needs to be amended. The amendments also serve to achieve more efficient investment in transport infrastructure, to modernise the existing regulatory environment, without their adoption, the national interest in achieving effective investment and the requirement for the legal system to be uniform may be violated. [[11.10]] In the absence of legislative clarification, Magyar Közút Zrt. is the property created by the development, renovation and investment of bicycle roads. they remain owned or, in practice, can only be dealt with in the context of a very long, even years of asset transfer. However, according to this bill, by way of the technical transfer-acceptance procedure, the competent local government shall, by virtue of the power of this Act, be owned free of charge by the competent local government. In the absence of the adoption of the bill, failure to comply with legal harmonisation obligations could cause a direct economic disturbance to the country following infringement procedures. In addition to budgetary impacts, for example, in the absence of the introduction of a bus market surveillance system, domestic bus undertakings would be more difficult to prepare for the consequences of opening up the EU market. On the other hand, while operating on an orderly regulated market, domestic companies can prepare in time for the requirements for operating on the bus and coach road passenger market, which will open in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed legislation also concerns amendments to a number of other laws, some of which I would like to highlight. One is XCVII 1995 on air transport. amendment of the law. The draft will simplify the designation of airport noise protection zones. The amendment to the Aviation Act allows for the designation of otherwise expensive and lengthy noise protection zones only for airports whose protection zones for noise protection do not extend beyond the physical area of airports. The amendment reduces the financial burden of airports which otherwise have minimal traffic, and the airport itself does not constitute a particular noise burden for the population of the surrounding municipalities. In addition, the range of entities exempted from official procedural charges by the civil aviation authority under which the defence portfolio is subordinate is extended. However, the exemption will no longer apply to background institutions operating in the form of companies in the light of competition considerations. The amendment clarifies the identity of the aircraft commander to whom the responsibility is attached during the pilot-in-command test. The other extremely important amendment for the purpose of harmonisation is CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. amendment of the law. The amendment is intended to transpose the Directive, which forms part of the so-called railway package, amending Directive 2012/34/EU, European Parliament and Council. In accordance with the Directive, the Railway Transport Act regulates guarantees ensuring the impartial and impartial functioning of the so-called holding structure in vertically integrated undertakings, such as railway infrastructure managers within the MÁV group. The basic tasks include setting and collecting a timetable and network access fee. The requirement for the independence of these basic tasks is financial transparency and cooperation with railway companies in order to ensure that transport on railway infrastructure is ensured on a level playing field for freight and passenger rail companies without discrimination. By transposing the Directive, the amendment strengthens the financial organisational guarantees of transparency, reducing the risks of possible cross-subsidisation of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. Finally, the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. I would like to say a few words about the amendment of the law. The amendment includes the necessary measures to strengthen domestic bus production. This includes reporting to the National Bus Procurement Committee, on the one hand, of the existing bus fleet of local bus and passenger public transport authorities, or of the entities under their ownership or entrusted with the exercise of their ownership rights, and on the other, of their planned bus purchases. Practical application problems have been encountered in relation to the reporting of planned bus and coach purchases. The information shall not be public before the decision on bus and coach purchases and purchases is taken in the course of public procurement or tendering and shall not be required to provide such information. The draft therefore includes an ex-post reporting requirement. The Law on passenger services also needs to be amended to transpose certain provisions of the previously mentioned railway package. The purpose of the amendment is to open the domestic market for domestic passenger services in a reasonable manner and to transfer the necessary changes to the management of railway infrastructure. Railway undertakings shall have the right to take passengers at any station and to provide for them to land at another station. Member States may restrict access to passenger services between a given starting point and a given destination for which one or more public service contracts cover the same route or alternative, in so far as the exercise of that right would jeopardise the economic equilibrium of the public service contract or contracts concerned. Whether the economic balance of the public service contract would be compromised should be established by the Member State's administrative body or bodies on the basis of an objective economic analysis, based on pre-defined criteria. In developing the market for high-speed passenger services, facilitating the optimal use of available infrastructure and improving the competitiveness of high-speed passenger transport services with positive effects for passengers, the rail administration will examine the organised operation of high-speed passenger transport services within the framework of the Directive. Where, following an analysis by the rail administration, it finds that a high-speed passenger service designed to operate between a particular point of departure and a destination jeopardises the economic equilibrium of a public service contract covering the same route or its alternative, the management body shall indicate the possible amendments to the service which would ensure that the conditions for granting access rights are met. These amendments may include changes to the intended service. The amendment of the law also creates a legal framework for market surveillance of road passenger transport services, as in the case of rail market surveillance rules. Under the proposed rules, the protection of bus and coach passengers' rights will also be significantly strengthened, as it also provides for the possibility of imposing sanctions against providers who fail to comply with the provisions on bus and coach passenger transport. The amendment of the Passenger Service Providers Act also provides for the possibility of regulating market surveillance activities and establishing regulatory frameworks for the market surveillance fee to cover the financing of this activity. The need and timeliness of the creation of the legislation cannot be delayed, given the opening up of the bus and coach road passenger market in the European Union in 2019 so that domestic bus and coach undertakings can prepare for market opening requirements in a timely manner while operating in an orderly and regulated market. The Act on Passenger Transport Services 15/A. Pursuant to Section 4 of the Directive, bus and coach passenger services providers are required to pay a market surveillance fee to the market surveillance authority of the bus and coach undertakings. Dear House, In my speech, I drew attention to only a few changes, since we know that the legislative package contains a number of other amendments. The KDNP fraction supports the adoption of the bill and I trust that my fellow Members will do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-15-60	Thank you, Mr Attila Móring, notary. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-15-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The audience has changed a bit, so I'll tell you what I said in my previous comment that the question is always that when they sit down and jump into a bill like this, what's in their head. What I can see here is that they were trying to grab something incredibly big. I do not understand exactly how this suddenly came to Minister Palkovic and his wallet. I was practically counting 11, I'm just saying, good-looking fellow Members. [[To Balázs Ander.]] We're not gonna get into a fight, you said 12, so they're gonna touch 11 laws in this case, and basically I'm sensing at the two pro-government speakers, don't get hurt, gentlemen, that they have no idea what they're reading. [[11.20]] They put in their hands a very good, fair, fair text, that's all right, in which they said the mandatory sentences, phrases that were needed, but exactly what was in the background wasn't really tried to push it. Let me do an experiment. I will not go as far as my better fellow Member. It is very, very clear in this salad law, in the amendment of 11 or 12 laws, that there has been a very, very serious mixture of what are actually legal harmonisation tasks. It is very clear that the profession has fallen upon the new minister, the new secretary of state, and has been brought up in recent years, for decades, for some reason set aside, swept aside, did not support professional proposals, and, no offense, there is no Secretary of State Dömötör, who has been fighting back at this time, but there is a reflection of private interests in the legislation. While what is said is true that there is a need for harmonisation of laws, it is true that there are professional things that have been incorporated, but it is very clear from this law that sometimes a proposal that is very clearly and clearly born for certain entrepreneurial groups of interests, and these interest groups, I say with a painful heart, are in fact always attached to the head of government, the family of the Prime Minister. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]] The emergence of private interests in a modern democracy would obviously not be such a great tragedy, and we ourselves represent that in certain situations, such as transport and others, private capital and the emergence of private interests are not a tragedy. But I'll tell you one more time, there are little things here that we might not even notice or say anything about, but later we'll see that an industry suddenly takes a completely different direction. I would also like to say that we will be in a difficult situation in the final vote. There are some suggestions in this, some of the passages, some items that are specifically professional, specifically long ago talking about this world, it would really be worth dealing with; I would add, and I will also talk about what is very unbearable and unsuitable. I would also like to mention the matter of the highway. You told us here, but we didn't hear it, we forgot that this high-speed concept failed, the one you tried to get into the legislation. Nevertheless, I keep it quiet, there are still items in the budget that build a fast road, while this is now being removed from the regulatory issue. I'd like to say one little thing. While I understand that there will be new rules for road rerouting, this means that if road construction requires shifting traffic to pay, then those who do not have a suitable sticker will also have to pay. Please pay attention to this. If this was the intention of the legislator, it is certainly possible to take note of this. I, too, think that it makes the question of driving a licence more exciting if, in some respects, it is removed from public supervision. Here, too, I would like to say that while we support it, I understand that more flowers are blooming, it is okay to have more mechanics in this area, but it is also about private capital and the private market in this area. We think it is important that we have talked about this a great deal about how and how the e-ticket system can be unified in Hungary. It is right that this will appear in this law. Our question, which does not reveal to us now, is that we are starting to do something again, we are starting to regulate and plan this from beginning to end, or we can build a network of this type in Hungary in the Municipality of Budapest on the basis of the e-ticket system ordered by BKK, which is worth HUF 20 billion. And now let's look at the things we think are worrying about. I am concerned about the issue of rail outsourcing from another point of view, although I also understand what my fellow Member has said. In this, I see the political and economic process of how, how, and how, the MÁV can be easily and slowly impossible and, where appropriate, led out of the market. Because what appears here and I don't want to PPP now, of course I understand this subtle miscarriage here too, it is about creating the possibility that the profitable part of the already extremely difficult MÁV operating MÁV friends, acquaintances or anyone who has access to one of these will get it, and that the already stripped MÁV, which can operate with an extremely serious state injection, will be put in an even more impossible position, and the situation can become more and more impossible to say that politics can say that we have tried everything, but you see that this is practically not working. They are trying to introduce a regulation that seems to apply to the Belgrade-Budapest railway line and other things, but in fact, I, we, and I'm sorry if I say so, many of us in this country see that this is the beginning of a process that, although very intelligently, not quickly and not in the short term, is not spectacularly and conspicuously, but still leads a patina company such as the MÁV, where appropriate, to the Hungarian market or puts it in an impossible position. It's gonna be this thing in the short term, I'm just telling you, as an example, what you do in health care. I don't want to put a health issue on the table here on this bill. This is exactly the same as the appearance of paid health care, apparently correctly and how good it is, paying health takes over the health care that is otherwise said to be free in many areas, and the level of free health care is starting to drop. Anyone unable to pay for paying health care is in fact getting worse or harder and harder to get access to care, who can pay for it, and who can get better care. I think it's a transport version of what you're going to create with this bill. The other is the question of air traffic control or the amendment of aviation laws. I don't want to go into a sophisticated professional analysis of how much gets easier. I understand that. We understand that. The steering machine has to fly! From now on, it seems to be disappearing from the cover that this is the Ministry of Defence's transport vehicle, but sometimes the Prime Minister uses it. It is now clear that the amendment of the bill, in addition to the many cover stories that obviously had to be done, contains how, how cheaper, practically free of charge, the machine used by the Prime Minister and the ministers, which they hide in the Ministry of Defence, is properly used. So, long live the government machine, this bill in one of the 11 amendments legalizes this thing. I will say briefly that mines within a 10 km radius of priority transport investments will be facilitated in some respects. I don't know what this is about, of course, and I'm willing to look at a map that doesn't concern anyone, anything, but I'm sorry, so they're just saying that there might be something later. I have a rhetorical question; I have very much respect for Minister Palkovic's work in recent years and decades. But I don't understand exactly why you're taking on so much of what you're taking on in this law, practically under ministerial authority. That doesn't make any sense to me. My experience is that the practice of the Orbán governments is that there is always a strong man who governs and ends up ugly. I do not know exactly how the political hierarchy works in the current government right now, but I can only see that when the ministerial hearing was held, it was also apparent that Minister Palkovic's portfolio was very large. Indeed, that portfolio is something that requires more people, which is also something that affects areas that are extremely sensitive and important to the country. Compared to this, we see that Mr Palkovic would not try to operate that otherwise large portfolio properly diversified as far as possible, but rather involve more and more tasks and powers. The concern is for me, Mr Secretary of State, that if you will forward it to the Minister or anyone in this House, so the concern is that it is important for us to achieve success in this priority area, which belongs to it. We ourselves have a dilemma, and that is the final idea of how and how we should behave in the final vote on this law. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-15-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-15-63	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, The attitude of the Democratic Coalition to this law is, of course, clear as regards the amendment of certain transport laws, since, as the most European party, when the government finally takes the trouble and accepts the European approach and, in this sense, even facilitates and creates opportunities for legislation that promotes economic life, it must be clearly supported. [[11.30]] In this sense, I agree with what has already been said by my colleagues, because these opportunities, which appear here, can really help Hungarian companies and Hungarian businesses. It provides opportunities for adaptation and even for everyday operation. Nevertheless, we have received a salad law with so much in it, opening up so many ways that we really have serious doubts. Can we begin to classify it, as we hear it coming back again and again, that this law may actually serve the purpose of supporting or supporting the acquisition of a market? In fact, that obligation, the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the harmonisation with it, the obligation or intention to comply with it, but what else can you try to do next to it? I say here, at the beginning of the debate, that, in addition to drawing attention to this, we would like to explain in the detailed debate, whether in the area of bus and rail operation, what anomalies are there, because we can list a lot. However, allow me to say some in the prerogative, just because it arises here every day, not only in Parliament. Not only do we have planes flying over our heads that you do not want to deal with here, and if you, in terms of organizing your lives or organizing the life of the government, may be better to operate, then control, but I respectfully indicate that the population has an explicit disadvantage of what is going on. This is that the noise load has increased in the past period at levels that can be repeated and repeated from settlement to settlement, district to district. I can tell you that we are not going to let this happen, and we are going to do so, because we could consider that you now have the opportunity to take into account the views of the population, the interests of the population, and to adopt appropriate rules. The second area, which I would also like to deal with is what will happen to railway management. 'Cause what I've seen to draw your attention only to this week's problem is the crashed ticket sale. It was virtually unavailable, and tens of thousands of travelers, people, could not buy tickets. So what are you gonna do about this? I think the government's big vest to start dealing with certain cases is gonna get caught up in it, and then, by the way, it's gonna use half-solutions, and the consequences are gonna appear to us and the population, in this respect, let's just say, it's kind of a nightmare. But I have to say, and I have to be fair to you in this, it seems that the MÁV has been unreformable for decades, and you have a greater ambition in this, and therefore I think it is very important that you not only want to enchant one piece of it and gain its benefits, but, in the interest of the population, to draw attention to the usefulness of passenger transport, so to speak. It is also in the same category that rail development which affects settlements, and here I am calling attention primarily to the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, I have received several letters in this regard that the railway line in the settlements where it passes according to your plans is a burden which can be unacceptable, and I am just saying that to the municipalities. I would therefore like to draw attention to the enormous attention to the consultation that is being carried out with these settlements. It is essential that they have a solution acceptable to them, and I must start again from the way they acted in flight management, in flight control, if they do the same, then you will have to face a lot of disgruntled people, a lot of interpellation here. Because in this form, it's not acceptable. Therefore, the eligibility of this law cannot be decided today. On the one hand, as I said, compliance with the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, in terms of harmonisation, is certainly very appropriate, and the Democratic Coalition is used to support them, but the additions to the salad law have little or even some content that we cannot otherwise support. That is why I am confident that you here in the further debate can convince us that, for whatever reason, it is worth supporting this law, because at present, in many respects, this proposal seems to be less supportive of the population, rather than of the market-acquiring activity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-15-64	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-15-65	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I agree with many opposition colleagues before me, especially here with the previous Member, Mr László Varju, that when we talk about transport problems in front of the Parliament, we need to take a more general approach. So we must not be lost in the little pits and details of such a salad law, because then we cannot talk about the crisis of the whole system. After all, we know that one of the most important public services is the transport service, and this system is in fact in crisis in Hungary today. And we can say that, under your governance, this crisis has only deepened. In practice, you have not been able to achieve any level of development in the transport system, but you have been able to demonstrate the activities of decompression, destruction and destruction in recent years. We know that transport basically defines economic and social and environmental processes, so the situation that we are now facing in the whole transport sector is extremely serious. So, in addition to the fact that this is a salad law that contains important elements of harmonisation and that it is important to have detailed rules that can be agreed with, I would like to use this debate in any event, taking advantage of the fact that the government is competent, its State Secretary, Deputy State Secretary, and I would like to raise concrete points and ask questions. Perhaps this debate will give us an opportunity to finally get some answers to these questions. In recent times, we have tried to draw attention to these problems in various forums, but unfortunately, with little success, these questions simply came from the government. It has not been managed sufficiently, according to its weight. The transport sector is in a clear crisis and has been going on for years, a comprehensive reform that would affect the sector is delayed. I would like to present the basic crisis symptoms. It is clear that Community transport is constantly falling, and there are huge problems with its financing. Every day we see scandalous articles and playoffs, that in many places it is simply symbolic to carry out the task of community transport, which is completely inadequate, while still basically creaking about its funding. The state of the railway network, I think, again I do not need to look for signs, for all Hungarians it is quite clear at what level it is broken down, in many places it is almost inadequate to carry out its task. We do not see any development of any kind on the part of the government, or very, very little, to serve or better serve real transport needs, and in parallel to the perfectly unacceptable and unfounded development of the already mentioned Budapest-Belgrád railway development, hundreds of billions of forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money would be spent here. It is financed by Chinese credit, but it will have to be paid by Hungarian taxpayers. There's a huge problem with the vehicle park of public transport companies. For a very long time, you have been talking about a bus exchange programme and a national bus production since 2011; compared to this, the process has been very shocking, since then, that the bus fleet has been deteriorating and ageing, and the level of service is reduced accordingly. [[11.40]] It is a completely unsolved problem, and this is what the bill refers to, the question of financing transport companies in municipal reserve. The municipalities will not be able to cope with this, even though it is one of the most important public services, a mandatory task. Obviously, everything justifies staying with the municipalities to carry out these tasks and to maintain these companies, but it must certainly be done nationally by legislation, so that funding can be predictable and gives the municipalities the opportunity to do this important task in this way, also by their own company, where this is happening, in those cities. I must mention the continuing deterioration of transport infrastructure, and here I am thinking primarily of the state of the lower road network in peripheral areas and rural areas. This road network is deteriorating so rapidly and at such a rate that every year there is an increasing proportion of road sections that can be used virtually only by renovation or reconstruction. And by failing to provide adequate preventive maintenance and repair, it will be a huge cost to rebuild these inferior roads in large volumes, not to mention the serious impact this has on rural areas. I would like to refer once again to the question of national bus production: in this salad law, Article 54. § 2 justifies this type of reporting obligation by the fact that this strategy, on the part of the government, is once again taking on some kind of momentum. I would like to ask you what has happened here in the last seven years, because what I see, what I see is not a revival or reviving of a national bus production, but it was practically a smash-up of this, and in parallel we have seen that, for example, a billion forints were used to support a Chinese bus manufacturer to get settled. What kind of national bus production is it when a billion forints of foreign manufacturers are supported? I have specific questions for the Deputy Secretary of State, without hurting the Deputy Secretary of State that I see that the government simply does not have a transport policy, and this is also reflected in the level at which the question of transport policy has been placed in the governance structure. But I am pleased with the opportunity to have a debate on the subject of transport, so I would like to ask specific questions in case we talk about the issue of transport here in the House and then get an answer. What are the specific plans of the government to update and replace the fleet of state-owned regionally organised transport companies? With what schedule, how many vehicles, how many buses would that affect? From what sources do you intend to finance this? Tell me specifics, because it's quite shocking how these companies are now and what services they provide. I would very much like to know what is planned specifically for those cities, for those municipalities where municipal companies supply public transport, what will happen to them. Are you planning to solve the issue of funding? And is there any intention, because on several occasions this news has come out that they are nationalising these companies and that they are taking away the possibility of maintaining a transport company themselves? Otherwise, we would oppose this in all respects, given that this is a very important public service, and clearly the specific needs and tasks to be solved are visible locally. So all the reasons are that the local government chosen by the travelling public, who is involved in the journey, has a fundamental role to play in the operation of these transport companies, so we would certainly not support the nationalisation of these companies, but we would like to finally get an answer from a responsible government actor. How will the brutal shortage of labour in the transport sector be addressed, and in what way do they intend to estimate workers in the transport sector? I am thinking primarily of drivers; also of other workers. This is a huge problem, and the government has not had an answer for many years. What are you planning to do about the development of the lower road network or at least about stopping the deterioration process? And that is what I would like to know in particular whether the municipalities will be able to keep their transport company. I would also like to be informed of why 54 is relevant now. I do not know how many times this has been formulated since 2011. Do you not have this information about what purchase needs or vehicle parks are currently owned by municipal companies? Is it a legal obligation to obtain only this information? I don't understand. Finally, here were some references to marketisation aspects. Obviously, it is very important that transport and other infrastructure can be maintained in principle, but we are talking specifically about the position of LMP in the context of Community transport, and we are very, very strict about marketisation. The market has already been opened here at some level, but in the context of further marketisation we are very, very negative, given that this is a strategic sector that basically defines the life of the country, rural life, the development of the economy, so we would support any marketisation at a very limited and very strict level; especially if it would allow better service for those involved in care, where appropriate in rural areas, but also here on strict conditions. Once again, I would like to say that we are missing from the government a comprehensive, coherent and understandable transport policy, we are missing the late and absent transport reform, which has been recognised for many years and also by pro-government politicians, and the approach by which the system of Hungarian transport could finally start to progress after a stagnation. Thank you.
u2018-11-15-66	Thank you, Congressman László Keresztes. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-11-15-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Here, speaking with my former Fidesz fellow Member, we have come to the conclusion that I am looking for something positive in this law, that I should not always speak only in the voice of denial and criticism. So I would like to commend the government then that, for example, the rules on drone flying will be regulated in a regulation, and that they will also take steps to better coordinate the management of bicycle roads. In fact, at the end of the speech, I will praise my fellow pro-government colleagues, but until then, let me highlight two aspects that cannot be welcomed with such great joy by the Dialogue. One: outsourcing state tasks is another driving game of privatisation, which we have done here in two ways in the law, and the other is putting the interests of the Orbán family into the law again. Let's start with the first one. Having been practically admitted in health care, higher education, it has been said that some of the care is being outsourced, private service providers are being involved in the most profitable demand, and that, in fact, higher education institutions are once excluded from democratic supervision and, in other cases, the various institutions of health, we are no longer so surprised that they are proposing amendments of this nature in the negotiation of transport laws. One can be seen in the process of obtaining a license, so there can be private equity, private property, and what has so far been a well-managed and exclusive state authority, in the future, it seems that this is a classic annuity hunting ground, one of the oligarchs near Fidesz, one of the friends of the Orbán family is expected to become an area of interest. The other, which may be much bigger than this, concerns rail transport. The obvious reason behind the new regulation concerns legislative changes to the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, which provide Hungary with no added value, no return, but which is a great service for Chinese expansion, which is a splendid service for the strengthening and profit-making of Chinese companies, but in the meantime, it seems that the stealth privatisation of Hungarian rail transport and transport can begin. It seems that Fidesz has once again turned a blind eye to a new area that you can outsource to your friends, and the profitable, profitable stages that are in the country, and which are still able to ensure the continued functioning and financial balance of the MÁV, well, they are expected to be outsourced from the state company and will be given to one of their current favorite oligarchs. According to this Dialogue, it is more than problematic, yet again, a waste of national wealth, which was also laid down in yesterday's property law, which is against the law; it is quite possible that the accusation of non-law may be stopped in this case as well. Another problem is that the interests of the Orbán family will be put into law over all other aspects. Here, for the first time, I am thinking about mine openings, creating or facilitating this opportunity, weakening its level of regulation, reducing it, which is not only about allowing Papa Orbán to bring more billions of more back home each year as dividends to the family, but also about allowing them to do so again at the expense of the natural environment. And the fact that a mine can be opened in virtually any location, within 10 kilometers of any of the priority national investments, means that a line is drawn on the map, saying that there will be a road, and then there will be free robbing, free robbing, and that, again, you can open open open open open-color excavations at any natural value, and I do not think I have to describe for a long time how problematic it is. [[11.50]] Finally, what is not usually in the interests of the Orbán family, but in the interests of Viktor Orbán personally, is the establishment of a public air transport system. They will be state aviation personnel, public aviation airports. So there is a major step forward, and we can actually welcome that. What have we seen so far? That Viktor Orbán fills oligarchs with hundreds of billions of HUF state orders, and then these oligarchs give him a friendly gift, as a favor, several million HUF worth of flights. This is the purest corruption case, and in any European country an assistant State Secretary would have failed; Viktor Orbán was not shaken. However, this seems to be embarrassing, it seems that Europe must be visited from time to time, and then united eyebrows welcome the Prime Minister and ask what kind of plane he has just arrived on. So the aircraft or aircraft that has been disguised as a military transport machine, which has been used only in furfields, is now legalized and admitted that, yes, there will be a government machine, yes, a special luxury passenger at its disposal, designed for Hungary's head of government. What is not, in fact, so much trouble, fits in with urization, but at least it's a legal urination, not the corrupt urination they've been doing so far. So in this sense, as I promised at the beginning, I would even commend the Fidesz colleagues that the illegal, corrupt urinating so far has finally been ensured by statutory, legal urinating, creating Viktor Orbán's private jet, private airports and private staff. So I wish for further work, similar to this, but I cannot promise that we will be able to secure the vote of the Dialogue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-11-15-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, who has applied for a comment.
u2018-11-15-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Christian Member has missed the government's coherent transport policy. I give you the answer: the essence of this is that the Nersevic elite and the Ripper's family grow as much as possible. That is, unfortunately, the essence of this transport policy. For the part of the bill concerning public transport by local bus and coach, see Article 54. I would like to add a few more points in relation to this section. This would impose additional administrative burdens on the maintainer. Although the Minister of Industry is required to provide the data, the Committee on Procurement intends to use it in order to boost Hungarian bus production. My fellow Christian Member has also spoken about this. I'd like to add some of the additives. Unfortunately, the national bus manufacturing programme can be called a failure as it stands. In the case of Fidesz municipalities, it is also a daily practice, even without reporting, to be centrally instructed when buying buses from whom, if any, there is a source. Most of the time, the government's favourite cities have obviously access to tender sources, from which they can buy products from leading international producers in public procurements. We have seen the examples: Volvo, MAN, Mercedes. With the extension of central data collection and management, this will be even more so in the future. The government's intervention in the Hungarian bus industry has so far been considered more of a spree than an effective activity. I'd like to list the crimes with which you've been embarrassed by the Hungarians, defend the very noble principle of the Hungarians, so that they can somehow run the domestic bus production capacity. Thanks to God, they failed to destroy the Kravtex Credobus plant that produced buses with real high added value in Hungary between 2010-14, but then, I would also remind you that in 2016, there was a scandalous story when a 152-piece tender was issued, and that, no, the only domestic long-distance type, Credo Optinell, failed the tender because of a single centimeter, was 10 millimeter that they wanted to shut them out of it. Then they came up with the Rába-Volvo cooperation programme, which was promised better than Kravtex, and as a result 150 Polish Volvo articulated buses were delivered to Budapest, where the Hungarian added value was a deliveryred by Rába, a sticker on the back of the buses; this is ridiculous. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Then let's look at the activities of the Evopro group with the government tailwind and government bank loans, led by Csaba Mészáros, what they have done to the companies ARC-Ikarus and Lanta that can design and manufacture buses. First of all, the PKD bus production programme, which works well between them and the BKV, was destroyed, resulting in the production of nearly 70 buses between 2014 and 16 in part at the former Ikarus plant in Budapest, partly at the head office of the BKV in Kelenföld. Finally, in 2018, instead of manufacturing and handing over 180 articulated buses won by the public procurement, he bankrupted the acquired Ikarus Szabadság Kft. Ten of them are limited-use hinges and twenty of them are barely usable, and they have delivered expensive electric buses, and after two years the BKV has put one of the latter out of service, and the others should be able to keep half of them in circulation. I'm gonna ask Deputy Secretary of State what it is if it's not a spree. We do not have any comments regarding the last points of the bill, i.e. the road-related fee to be paid for the use of motorways and motorways, and the amendment of the law on non-railway transport, which is acceptable. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to your answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members, and I would just like to make one clarification: Secretary of State, Mr Mosóczi, not Deputy State Secretary. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] Thank you very much. Lóránt László Keresztes, from the LMP, applied to speak again. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2018-11-15-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the information, and we apologize to the Secretary of State for the inaccurate wording. Mr Tordai mentioned in a bit more detail the plan for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and he did so very well. In particular, I would like to ask one more question to the Secretary of State or to any of the present Fidesz representatives or government players specifically regarding the investment, i.e. in connection with the investment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. What can you do to confirm that this investment will be repaid? Is there any document, impact assessment, that can confirm that this is going to pay off? We know that this will be done through Chinese credit, but they're putting the cost of this at about 700 billion. This will have to be paid by the Hungarian taxpayers. What can you do to confirm that this is a profitable investment? If it pays off, how long will it take? So will he be exploited, will he be repaid, and how long will it take to repay this investment? I have one more specific question. The philosophy of this Budapest-Belgrád railway line is to provide a route to the port of Pyreus in order to secure the transport route. On the other hand, it has been said for years that the Government would also support or invest in some way towards the port of Koper in Slovenia, with a railway section of about 28 km in order to develop the railway in order to increase transport capacity towards the port of Koper. There's this bottlenecks. At the same time, the port of Pyreus and the port of Koper are competing ports. Please explain to me, Mr. Secretary of State or any pro-government politician, that if this really happens and indeed the government invests in Slovenian rail development from budgetary sources or grants me no credit in order to increase the capacity of the Copernican spender to deliver, then how is it compatible with the government's involvement in the development projects of ports competing with each other from budgetary sources, taxpayers' money? I would very much like to get some kind of answer from a government authority, and at all, whether it is true that the government would like to continue to join the development of the Koper port railway line. Thank you.
u2018-11-15-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2018-11-15-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Everyone must communicate from the first to the last moment, traffic regulation is obviously an area that affects everyone, and everyone wants it to be better, of course, for the government to do better. In transport, we can basically talk about three things: on the one hand, the infrastructure we use, the development of infrastructure is primarily the responsibility of the state, and I believe that the Hungarian state, especially in this government cycle, provides resources for the development of transport infrastructure that weren't before, because if we consider that there is nearly HUF 4000 billion worth of road development, Hungary's motorway network will almost double, all county seats, county-right cities, major industrial parks will be connected to the motorway network, motorways that are heading towards national borders, reach the borders, so this government will fulfil its task in the field of road. There is an investment in rail transport of nearly HUF 1500 billion, and it is enough in the fleet to see the railway lines: they have appeared, and there are more than 160 modern suburban trains already in production, so the railway sector of public transport is already on a growing track. In addition to infrastructure, we need to talk about vehicles, because it doesn't matter what vehicles we drive when we talk about passenger transport and what vehicles we use in the transport of goods. It should be noted that in Hungary nearly 6 percent of GDP is generated by transport and transport-related logistics, and tens of thousands of families are provided by transport, and the benefits of transport are used by all of us. So it doesn't matter how we use the huge amount of investment that we spend on infrastructure and vehicles, because we have to make sure everyone has the best we can. We need to change the use of infrastructure and vehicles from the regulatory side, and this amendment to the Transport Act covers this regulation. This is a continuous work, and we will probably come next year with such a task as, on the one hand, transport is heavily regulated by the European Union, let us just think about air transport, because almost all its segments are regulated, but rail transport is similar, and we have heard several comments about the Single European Railway Area, the SERAC and the European Union's rail development efforts to ensure that we do not fall out of the European network in any way. With regard to air transport, I have to mention that there are 93 airports in Hungary's 93 square kilometres, so we have a pretty good airport. No one would like smaller airports that we use for sport, for example, to be given to its maintainers the burdens that they cannot bear. To this end, we would like to use the minimum opportunities that are outside the EU regulations to ensure that safety is fully respected. With regard to the rail network, the European Union's most dynamically developing area for the high-speed network is the Visegrád Four. In order for economic and social relations to grow even more, we need adequate transport infrastructure, and we need railway infrastructure to do so. The connection of the Visegrád four capitals with a high-speed network creates exactly what we already see from good examples, that when designed and built, for example, the high-speed railway line Paris-Brussels-Cologne-Amsterdam-London, both the jumping development of the adjacent regions, and the number of passengers using it has increased dynamically and is being used today. The development of the Visegrád Four has reached the level that it is worth talking about and thinking about the creation of such a network, and to ensure the legal conditions of this. And we have actually heard how difficult rail transport between Hungary and Szeklerland is, taking this into account, the Hungarian government has decided, and the Romanian government has agreed to consider the possibility of building a high-speed railway line in Budapest-Kolozsvár, because in Romania, especially in Transylvania, there are already large cities whose development has reached the level that they can be connected to a high-speed network. They often say that we are a small country, why not just 100 miles per hour. That's because we're talking about a network at the railroad. Belgium and the Netherlands are even smaller, yet they are already full of high-speed railway lines, because it does not matter how big a country is, but how it is connected to the European circulation of transport, how big cities and what important industrial settlements are in our environment. Obviously, if you only take into account how many vehicles, how many unit vehicles, how many buses and trains run, you will probably not get the number you would be satisfied with, but you need to know that the development of transport infrastructure in all areas of life brings about its dynamic added growth, thereby increasing GDP and increasing areas that could not be counted, so the return of a project can only be done by combined examination of these co-areas. There is no reason for a trans-European network, since there is a return on a trans-European network, and there is obviously no return on some sections individually, but everyone shares these benefits together. The government, including the transport portfolio, is constantly working on the modernisation of domestic transport, and I am not referring primarily to the development of infrastructure, as I have already talked about it, here the government is demonstrating that it is working and operating. We prepare a bus strategy, we reform the Community transport system, we develop a road programme, we create a railway programme. I believe that, in the areas of public transport and individual transport and freight transport, we are looking forward to all areas for which we can increase this share of GDP by 6 per cent, thereby contributing to the country's performance, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that both individual transport and public transport as well as freight are in place and that they are of a higher standard for taxpayers. This regulation, which is indeed a number of points, is a legal basis for this. Thank you again for the comments, criticisms and supporting comments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments can be submitted by 16:00 today. It is now up to 10/2014 on certain house rules. General discussion of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law until closure. The submission submitted by Csaba Hende, our Fidesz fellow Member, Vice-President of Parliament, is H/3232. The House's IT network is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Vice-President Csaba Hende, the rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-75	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, We witnessed another important turning point in Hungarian constitutional history in June 2018, when the Hungarian Parliament amended our Fundamental Law on the basis of national law for the seventh time. This amendment introduced fundamental principles reflecting national interests in our national constitution. In addition to the major amendments to the preservation and protection of national identity, the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law also contains provisions on legislative practice, which justified the amendment of both the law on legislation and the parliamentary decision containing the provisions of the decree. The seventh amendment of the Law on Legislation in the context of the Fundamental Law requires that the various explanations relating to the draft legislation should be made available to the public. Based on this, the intention of the current proposal to amend its decision-making rules is to ensure that Parliament and the public are informed of the legislative proposals drawn up by the national and submitted, including the Fundamental Law and the proposal to amend it. In the course of the amendment of the basic law, the idea that the other source of knowledge of the legislative will in addition to the legislative preamble should also be a clear justification for the draft legislation. [[12.10]] At present, we can only talk about the availability of legislative justifications in the case of laws, but they are far from uniform, because we can only talk about justifications for either its authorship or amendments. As a result of the recent amendment of the Fundamental Law, it has therefore become clear that the aim of the legislator should be known not only from the preamble but also from the explanatory memorandum. As a result, there will be a future obligation for the legislator to state the reasons for its legislation. It should be stressed that the justification of the legislation and its preamble, as a source of understanding of the will of the legislator, do not mean that it is only a means of correct interpretation of the content and purpose of the legislation, i.e. we can continue to call on the grammatical, logical, taxonomic and historical interpretation of the legislation in question, as well as the resolutions of the legal works. The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law facilitates the facilitation of interpretation for both the law enforcement and the law-seeking audience by giving a privileged role in taking account of the explanations. The text of the Fundamental Law emphasises this consideration as follows:. When defining the purpose of the legislation, it is necessary to take into account, in particular, the preamble to the legislation or the justification for the proposal to draft or amend the legislation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, as amended, therefore provides binding guidance in the context of the interpretation of the law of courts and other public authorities. In this context, it has become necessary to amend the legislative law, which aims to ensure that the legal justifications are made public within the appropriate legislative framework. In addition, it is essential for the practical application of the basic law amendment to change the house rules of the decision. The proposal on the table of the Honourable Parliament includes, in addition to the publication of explanations to the public, an unforgettable consideration in principle. That is that the exclusive responsibility of the author is not only in relation to publication, but also in the wording of the explanatory memorandum. I believe that there is no need for any particular explanation of this item, since the rapporteur can support his own legislative intention and its purpose by giving reasons for his proposal with the most effective and convincing arguments. The bill before us envisages a technical clarification between the provisions of the House Rule of Decisions, which makes it clear and clear to us that the explanatory memorandum is not part of the bill and does not have legal binding force. The legislator intends to ensure that proposals for the establishment or amendment of the law are made public in order to require the author to include the justifications of the proposed amendments in the so-called register of documents. Furthermore, in the course of the parliamentary hearing of the proposal submitted by the author himself, it is his duty to update the reasons for his bill, taking into account what has been said and the proposals for amendments. In this way, we will find a complex bill to ensure the harmony of provisions and explanations between ourselves in the writing register. The exceptions to these are, given their specific nature, the following proposals: the draft law on the central budget, the bill on amending the central budget and the draft law on the implementation of the central budget. The definition of the exceptions is supported by the fact that the wording of the explanations of the above-mentioned legislative proposals which would be suitable for publication would place a particularly significant, perhaps irresolvable burden on the rapporteur, precisely because of the specific nature of these legislations. It is therefore not necessary to redefine and update the justifications of these legislative proposals as set out in the proposal. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to consider what has been said, and to help with the interpretation of the law by supporting the adoption of my proposal. Legal certainty and clarity are essential requirements in a rule of law, and I believe that the proposal serves this objective correctly and well. So I ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government on the proposal for a resolution. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner, please.
u2018-11-15-77	The government supports the proposal for harmonisation. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Vitányi. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-15-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 20 June 2018, the Hungarian Parliament accepted the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, in which several items of priority and principle were declared. I do not wish to list them, and I would like to say in summary that the amending provisions are intended to preserve national identity and heritage and to respect and protect our traditions of public law. The proposal before us is also integral to the seventh amendment of our Fundamental Law. It has been a well-known constitutional requirement that courts, in their enforcement activities, must interpret legislation in accordance with their purpose and with the Fundamental Law. Pursuant to Article 28 of the Fundamental Law, the reasons for the proposal to create or amend the legislation must also be taken into account by the domestic courts when setting the purpose of the legislation, in addition to the preamble, as the author said. There is therefore a wide range of resources from which we can learn about the will of the legislator and its original purpose. The Fundamental Law therefore places a particular emphasis on a targeted interpretation of legislation. To this idea, it has proved essential to amend the law on legislation in order to create the necessary legislative framework to ensure that explanations of draft legislation are made available to the public. Dear House, Therefore, it is essential to amend the decision-making house rule. The intention to amend is primarily to ensure that both the Members of Parliament and the public are given a statement of reasons prepared by the author and modified in the course of the hearing of the bill, as well as a revised statement of reasons. The legislation required by the proposal therefore falls within the remit of the rapporteur. On the one hand, during the parliamentary hearing, it will be obliged to update the justification of its own bill in the light of the reasons for the amendments and, on the other hand, to initiate the inclusion of the explanatory memorandum in the register of documents already edited and translated into the current form. In view of its specific nature, the draft law on the central budget, the bill amending the budget law and the draft law on closing accounts are only exceptions. I consider it outstanding that the legislator intends to facilitate a clear and clear interpretation of the law, as agreed by the Fundamental Law and in the manner set out in this proposal. By doing so, it strengthens the legal certainty and the rule of law requirements of the rule of law. I can say on behalf of all of us that this is a great help and, at the same time, a sure support for both the law enforcement bodies and the law-seeking citizens. Although the justification is in no case part of the law, as is stated in the proposal on the House's table, it is a great help in detecting the will of the legislator. In particular, in this way, it becomes the exclusive task of the national to draw up the explanations of the draft legislation. [[12.20]] Dear House, The obvious aim of the proposal is to prevent legal uncertainty by making the justification of the draft legislation available to the public as a source of knowledge of the legislative will. In view of this, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposal. Please support this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-15-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, H/3232. There will, of course, be a vote in favour of the Jobbik faction for the adoption of the parliamentary proposal, and I would just like it briefly, after both the rapporteur and the representative of Fidesz have given a detailed account of the basis for the legal basis itself and the specific new amendment text, what its purpose is and how it is done. For me, as a law practitioner until May 7th, it was strange that this was not the case so far. So, more than once, a number of amendments were made to a proposal before it became a law. The justifications and changes to the explanations were not made public to the proposals for amendment, so it was even possible, although it was so rare that the reasoning in question, when, for example, the legislative intention had to be interpreted in a particular case in the court, there was a relatively different reasoning attached to the law that was finally voted on. So I think this is a long-standing deficit, which is now, fortunately, corrected by the legislator. I consider that the reason was not the seventh amendment of the basic law, but that it was probably already a wish from the case law that the text of the reasoning should always be updated in the course of the amendments or as a result of the amendments. Although I would like to stress that I consider that the requirement contained in the Fundamental Law is that the reasoning of the preamble and the legal bases should be the main guiding principle for the case law and it is only quasi-subsidiary, as I said at the time, that it is not really acceptable to me, especially as we were sitting two days ago on the day of the Hungarian language. This incredibly rich language can serve the provisions in question so accurately that it is understood by the law practitioner exactly what the legislator was thinking and what expectations there are in the application of the legislation is a very serious opportunity. But since the Fundamental Law was sacred and inviolable, this was the intention of the legislator, and it was thus voted in, so it is not a question that the Fundamental Law now dictates that practitioners should be put in a position where the exact final justification of the applicable legislation, when it was voted by the House, is indeed the reason why it should be able to meet the requirements of the Fundamental Law. In this way, I would like to thank Vice-President Csaba Hende for making this presentation, and we can finally put an end to this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr András Aradski. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The H/3232 in front of us. The resolution proposal No.1 rightly undertakes that the Hungarian Parliament should also proceed to the path of compliance and to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, in accordance with its provision, to adapt the provisions of the house rules that become indispensable in the course of the legislative process. This provision is a provision relating to the disclosure of explanations in the context of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. It is clear from the Fundamental Law that the authors prepare a justification for the legislation prepared, for proposals for amendments, because they are required to do so by the Fundamental Law. So far, our system has been hijacked by the fact that such amendments, such justifications and the regulatory procedure for amending the preambles have not been clarified. This is what I have referred to as the need to clarify this, and it is therefore very welcome and necessary to propose, by my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Hende, further strengthening the legal certainty and compliance requirements and the fulfilment of which Members of this House, i.e. Members of Parliament, have sworn. I believe that the proposal that has been put forward will follow these needs well, and will follow the possible modalities, in cases where it is necessary and necessary to amend the wording of the preamble and the justification presented by the rapporteur in the course of the amendment. It is fair and acceptable that certain exceptions are made to the house rules, this is the justification for the budget law, the amendment of the explanations required in the course of amendments to the implementation or amendment of the budget law. I think that the type of case law, which has already been the case in the past, that in the interpretation of the law, in the application of the legislation in question, the legislator has always asked what the legislator had in mind, we can now settle this situation in a constitutional and regulatory manner, i.e. we can answer the question of what the legislator thought, because the provisions relating to the mandatory consideration of the justifications give clear guidance to both courts and other law-abiders. The kind of duality that one law-abiding took account of the justification, the other law-applicationer did not publish the justification for one law, not for the other, thus disappearing, and thus, together with the amendment of the house rules and the provision of the Fundamental Law, the conditions of legal certainty and compliance are greatly improved in Hungarian legislation and Hungarian legislation. Supported by KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be honest with you, I'm reminded of Ford Fairlane's words while listening to this debate. Anyone who knows the movie knows I'm not gonna quote the whole thing, but at the beginning, I didn't think it would cheer me up today, but it's a great production. And I'm not gonna quote the end here, the young people know what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, András Aradszki has just said in his main speech that, with this law, the Parliament should finally take the path of law enforcement, and how great this will be. With this, the KDNP pro-government fellow politician clearly admits the fact that we have been saying for years that Parliament has not been following the law. Indeed, you did not follow the law when thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people crossed over with various legislative proposals, say, legislative proposals adopted in a few days. They were not following the law when they did not comply with their own rules here in this Parliament. Of course, they are not on the road to law enforcement when they are submitting laws with individual representatives that should be submitted by the government, and they should continue social consultations and at least negotiations within the government with integrity, asking the profession. [[12.30]] This is also the solution, which concerns this law, since a Member of Parliament is submitting an amendment to the legislative law, it is about the fact that the Minister of Justice does not consider it important to amend the Fundamental Law, which was adopted by Jobbik as an event of constitutional history, to be sacred and inviolable, but a single Member believes that he will do this small work. I think that says a lot of things. Look! On this proposal, in addition to the operation of a parliamentary majority that will wipe him out and knock him down in two days, most recently in the hundreds of thousands and even millions of Hungarian families [[Dr. Pál Völner: Ten million!]] I think it's a completely uncredited constitutional history event and a speech by the rapporteur on the rule of law and legal certainty. We were sitting on the Legislative Committee, Mr President, when, in one night, you rewritten this fantastic Fundamental Law with a Commission amendment. What legal certainty are you talking about? What rule of law are you talking about when you rewrite the Fundamental Law with a Commission amendment sent at 7:00 or 8:00 a.m. on Wednesday night, and at 9:00 a.m. or 10:00 a.m. the next morning, that committee meeting took place? When naming laws are introduced here to Parliament, not one, not two, but very much, when this Parliament is specifically used for personal, economic and political gain [[Dr. István Vitányi constantly intervenes.]] I think it is completely false to talk about a rule of law and legal certainty in addition to this proposal. Calm down, dear congressman. Press the button and tell me what you think. I'm curious about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-15-86	Congressman Vitanyi! If you press the button, I'll give you the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. István Vitányi's intervention.]]
u2018-11-15-87	Come on, I'll give you the microphone. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. István Vitányi: No!]] No? [[Defiance.]] When, last week, in the Legislative Committee, for example, more than a hundred-page amendments to tax laws were tabled in one afternoon and practically the whole law was rewritten at the last minute, there was certainly a detailed justification behind each line. Finally, the reason why this bill cannot be supported in principle is obviously because the quality of the laws that will be brought here either as representatives or by the government, which will be regularly brought back in a few months' time, because almost all of them are ruined, in this case allowing the justification to be taken into account in addition to the specific text of the law, as laid down in a legislative law, I think it is life-threatening for the legal certainty of Hungarian citizens. I do not know that if the justification for such a great amendment, which has been clashed in a few hours, will be contrary to the law text, then what will happen. Or when the justification of the law also regulates things that the bill itself does not, will they refer to the fact that the poet was thinking about it? I remember there was a serious debate now, by the way, and the head of state, who is your party, may have sent the proposal on well regulation to the constitutional standard, but it was certainly sent back to veto, and the proposal was not in force. For example, in this proposal, you have written concrete figures on how deep the wells can and can't be allowed, while there was no letter in the text of the law about this. I'm just saying this so that everyone understands that in this respect and in this regard, what you're now accepting will result in or may result in a certain law being passed by the Parliament, it applies to something and is about something, and then the justification will record a whole other thing. [[Csaba Hende's intervention.]] And in hindsight, people's lives will be dealt with differently. But, Mr. President, that's right, because according to your bill, [[Csaba Hende's intervention. The president's ringing the bell.]] for example, the law-abiding person, such as the authorities, such as the courts, will have to take this into account. In addition, and given the absurdity of the matter, the MSZP does not support this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-15-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. Congressman! Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention to compliance with the Parliamentary Act and the House Rules and the unwritten rules that ensure the dignity of Parliament. That's how I give the word. Here you go.
u2018-11-15-89	[[Laughing:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm trying to be good. I haven't prepared any special productions today. Speaking of the dignity of the Parliament, since you've brought up the seriousness of the parliamentary work here, I think there's nothing more glamorous than this bill to prove how frivolous, pathetic, ridiculous, unsavory professionally the work you're doing here. What is its content in political terms has been discussed in other cases, this is not a matter of substance, but of legal nature. In practice, it is recognised that two thirds of the Fidesz are unable to produce norm texts that are clear, clear and do not require a separate explanation. That's the thing. So if the text of a law doesn't stand up to itself, it's a problem. If the text of the law and the justification are not in a thank-you relationship, it is also a problem; and it is also a problem to bring in and untie the previously adopted laws again and again every few months. This is how they do it with the granite-solid Basic Law; this is how they do it in the case of GDPR, which would have been a simple naturalization, for which they had two years, they managed to transpose it into four runs, but they are still not ready with this. So let's see what performance is being performed, and this is actually a sincere gesture, and they admit that it may be possible to use some explanatory description, with some help, to get a math out of what the legislator's intention might have been, if the text of the legislation is not suitable for this. This is sad not only for this, but also for what my fellow Member Harangozó said: this shows well the drawbacks of this generally paced legislation, the drawbacks of the lack of social consultation, the lack of involvement of the relevant groups, the absence of inter-ministerial negotiations, the lack of God, multi-party negotiations. If these are convened, it serves only propaganda steels, where, after quick information, opposition parties are disoriented and, of course, substantial amendments are not accepted either through such informal discussions or through Commission or plenary debates. So the thing is, if you want to have text texts of normal quality, you don't have to accept additions as quasi-normative text, but you have to give it a way to go through a process that is certainly weeks to months until all parties are heard, until everyone involved can express their views, and then perhaps there will also be time and opportunity to eliminate technical errors. It is particularly sad that you will also promote the justifications and use them as such quasi-law, and that you will force every law interpreter to apply them, because the stupid, evil, vile demagogy that you are here generally leading up to by reading the justifications of the legislative proposals, and what the pro-government propaganda press is pushing into our face every day, in this way, is once again given a higher rank. It wasn't a law where we were constantly hearing serializations in the explanations and in Parliament's proposals, and then that it was not, for example, Soros who was left out of the Stop Soros Act, but it is there in the explanatory statement long and boring, and then this explanatory statement is now deemed to be part of the law. I think this is another low point in the history of Hungarian law, although, of course, speaking of the breakdown of democracy, the creation of the illegitimate Fundamental Law and so on, I would not say that this is their worst crime, but I think it will also appear in black letters on the pages of the history books, as well as anything else, let us add. [[Defiance.]] I'm glad I've managed to steal a little cheer in your lives by the end of the day, but the thing is, by the way, the reception and professional reception of this won't bring you any cheer. It will probably have an echo not only in domestic but also in international legal forums that you will not be too pleased with. Of course, they cannot count on the vote in favour of the Dialogue on this matter either. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap.]]
u2018-11-15-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to apply for further speeches, but there is now room for a two-minute speech. From the KDNP, Mr András Aradszki applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.40]]
u2018-11-15-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I pressed a two-minute button to see if I could clear up the misunderstanding that my comment caused with Mr Bellozó. It is clear that the requirements relating to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law have not been followed by the House Rule, in this respect there is obviously an obligation for the Hungarian Parliament to adapt its house rules in such a way that it is possible to amend the explanations and the preambles when adopting the legislative proposals, if this is justified by the relevant amendment. If you thought this connection was unclear in my statement, then I now confirm that it had to be interpreted that way. Consider this the justification for my comment. The other part is that I would call for you to be modest about criticising the legitimate functioning of Parliament, because, in the course of the Hungarian law history, the Constitutional Court has in many cases abolished or repealed the laws and laws adopted by the majority at the time during the MSZP governments. [[Gergely Harvestó: Because at the time there was a rule of law!]] All we need to think about is the Bokros package, and it is enough to think only of the attempts by the Constitutional Court to prevent a social referendum from being legal. I think that, compared to this, the current legislation, legislation, is a much better achievement, and I therefore call on you to be modest in this regard. Thank you. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Thank you.]]
u2018-11-15-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Gergely Arató asked for a proper speech from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-15-93	Ladies and gentlemen, Just because some kind of filth is consistently carried through doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it This whole concept, which was started by the Constitution... what I do not say, but that it is a constitution, with the static amendment of the Fundamental Law, which has been carried out by the legislative law, which is now being carried forward through the house rules, it is not the legislation on the basis of which the law-abiding has to be decided, but the justifications. That is basically what this is all about, since you make the explanatory statement part of the decisions that must be taken into account. From now on, the court will have to start with your brilliant reasoning and your mind. In the past, the court had such an opportunity, since it had to examine the legislative intention, but of course it was a matter of judicial discretion. From now on, however, this is mandatory. After this wonderful thought has been felt that the courts tend to follow the law and not to pass your political intentions through the house rules now, and to write in the house rules that, yeah, yes, if we change the law now, as usual, rewriting the text of the law in the Legislative Committee on a pleasant afternoon, then when we think of it, we will also rewrite the justification for it, and we will change what the original intention was, because the legislative will has changed. Dear fellow Members, Here's some good laws. Here's some legislation that the court can interpret without your kind help. Then I don't almost have to peddle the justifications afterwards, and you don't have to be a mechanic even in the justification. If there is a normal legislative process, where there is social debate, there is preparation, there is a sane parliamentary debate, where real intentions are revealed not before the vote, but at the time of the submission, then there will be no need to adapt the justifications subsequently to all of this. This package of legislation, this final element of which is adapted to the government's intention to remove your final limit, is quite clear. Because, my dear fellow Member, do not boast that the Constitutional Court will not cancel your terrible legislation. Of course he won't cancel it, because they made a Constitutional Court which, on the one hand, took away most of his powers and, on the other hand, filled it with unilateral decisions with their own friends, relatives and business partners. Of course, from now on, this Constitutional Court will always make a decision that you will order from him. I'm sorry, he didn't bring one of those for the well, so now it's gonna make it even worse for people. But that doesn't matter. Let's not get into this. Returning to this story: it is not glory, but shame, it shows that the Constitutional Court does not work as control over legislation. One more: the right to turn to the Constitutional Court has also been significantly restricted, let me not forget that. From this point on, they will seek to break the courts in some way: embarrassing cases will be transferred to the administrative court, which will remain, and there they will try to control them with these subsequently tampered with justifications. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we cannot support this proposal. The Democratic Coalition does not simply consider this proposal to be outrageous, offensive and unacceptable. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-15-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will now ask Vice-President Csaba Hende, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Csaba Hende's mark:]] Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the leading speakers of Fidesz, Jobbik and KDNP for their support and, at the same time, I would like to express my deep shock at the rumours of the speakers of the MSZP, the Dialogue and DK. Probably what happened was they didn't read the proposal in front of them. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's very flat!]] Both Tamás Harangozó and Bence Tordai talked about a bill all along. Please, I didn't submit a bill. I submitted a parliamentary resolution. And from here on out, we shouldn't really be dealing with what they said, because they were talking about something else, obviously, not what I put in front of the House. If they had read it, they would have seen that this proposal for a decision amending the decision-making house rule is merely about how, how, within the Parliament's system, the explanations of individual laws should be dealt with. My fellow Member Gergely Arató also completely misunderstands when he talks about the need for the court to work from your brilliant thoughts. I propose the use of the personal pronoun, Congressman, instead of the you, of the personal pronoun. [[Gergely Arató: That's what I said, that you and not us. The president's ringing the bell.]] No, no, what! We all make the law. The law that is born is created by the Parliament of which you are a member. Bence Tordai, who has probably never dealt with the application of law in his life, thinks that Gergely Arató's speech also shows that an explanation of reasons is necessary for a law because the norm has failed and cannot be assessed on the basis of it. No, please, it is not necessary to make the will of the legislator clear. The proposal for a legislative law clearly states that the justification remains not part of the legislation. Compared to this, one of the speakers here, Bence Tordai, quoted: "They make the statement of reasons a part of the law. The opposite is true. So they're asking you to read the suggestions you're going to make, or else you're so ashamed that you're going to be talking about seven and snow here, you're talking about everything but what the proposal is about. [[12.50]] I could keep going. Bence of Tordai said that with this bill, they admit that they can't make clear laws. I beg you, who has worked as a lawyer, a judge, a prosecutor, a counsellor, you know perfectly well that legislation must, of course, be interpreted in the process of applications. Interpretation has a number of means. I was brave to point that out in my expo because not everyone is a practicing lawyer. The interpretation of legislation must primarily take place in grammatical terms, because what is written means what it means. If two laws, three, five or twenty have to be compared in a more complex case, then logical interpretation is also necessary, the relationship between the individual laws must also be examined. Then there may be a need for historical interpretation, because the legal system has its own unique life. The Hungarian legal system Corpus Juris has actually been developing in written form since 1222, and it doesn't matter what the background is, because the causes and effects are related within the legal system. So the kind of unpreparedness and political demagoguery that we heard here in the last three speeches, I don't want to qualify, because those speeches were self-qualified. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-15-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Csaba Hende, our Fideszes fellow Member, Vice-President of the Parliament, is T/3252. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Vice-President Csaba Hende, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The Government is 1267/2013 on civil court codification. By Decision No.3 of the year 1952, it was required by Decision No.3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Start work on a comprehensive modernisation of the law. The objective pursued was to create a modern civil law code, which is consistent with international practice and expectations, which ensures the effective enforcement of material rights. It was also intended that, based on the results of law and case-law, the new civil order regulates litigation in a transparent, coherent manner, taking into account the achievements of technology, thus facilitating the situation of law-seeking citizens and professional audiences. Following the thorough and high-level preparatory work, the Parliament adopted the new code of 2016 based on the Hungarian lawsuit traditions, which meets international expectations and today's living conditions. The new rules entered into force on 1 January. In the case of such a large code-level reform, it is natural that they must and should be familiar with the application in practice, both the law-appliant and the law-seeking citizens, and if the application raises questions and requires legislative involvement, the Parliament should examine these observations. At the initiative of these changes, there can also be grounds for ensuring coherence in the area of law, i.e. harmonious unity, due to other legislative changes. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill I have tabled is also to establish coherence in the area of rules on pre-leading with regard to codes whose background law is Pp., i.e. civil order. Dear Parliament, Pp. under its provisions, there may also be a place for prioritization in civil proceedings to ensure the appearance of the person concerned. Promotion may be used as a coercive instrument, on the one hand, against contributors, such as witnesses or experts, on the other hand, in proceedings of origin and janitorship against parties. The detailed rules governing the payment, determination and reimbursement of the costs incurred by the implementation of the expenditure incurred in the event of pre-trial and non-court proceedings are currently laid down in a Ministerial Decree on the extent of the cost incurred by the implementation of the pre-trial and by the arrest and production of the loaded arrest warrant and the detailed rules for its reimbursement. The Regulation lays down that the person indicated in the pre-emption decision, i.e. the person ordered to be promoted, must be obliged to reimburse the cost of pre-exit. The provision for payment of costs is therefore also contained in the regulation at present. Pp. the old Pp when establishing the rules for reimbursement of the cost of pre-leading. It is based on its provisions and the legislative environment defined by that Regulation and therefore does not provide for reimbursement of the pre-financing costs. Pp. After its adoption, Parliament adopted several new Codes of Procedure, which also provide for the introduction of the subjects and contributors of the proceedings under certain conditions, as I mentioned earlier. In order to ensure legal coherence, the bill now regulates the rules on the costs incurred by the police when implementing the pre-trial procedure. The amendment under the bill also settles the reimbursement of the costs of the pre-trials, in addition to civil proceedings, in administrative proceedings and other administrative proceedings, as well as in civil non-court proceedings, as in these proceedings Pp. It shall apply as background legislation. In substance, the provision of cost bearing under the bill is identical to the regulation in force. Accordingly, with the contributors and in the lawsuits of origin, Pp. the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the parties in the pre-trial procedure should be made by the person whose appointment was ordered, since he voluntarily failed to appear, notwithstanding the court's summons, at a given place and at a given time. In the case of janitorial proceedings, the above rule, the subject of the lawsuit, and on the basis that the party is entitled to legal aid on the basis of a specific law, the bill states, in the interest of clear regulation, that the costs of pre-introduction of the defendant to be placed under the janitorship or under guardianship are borne by the State, because while, in the case of citizens with full discretion, it can be blamed that, if a person does not appear at the hearing despite a subpoena duly received by him, a person who has already been placed under the janitorship or who is currently under the janitorship procedure must bear the costs in such cases for the protection of the person concerned, usually under his intellectual capacity, the community, the state, that is all of us, the taxpayer, and we do not consider the question that, if he has already appointed janitor, why he has not provided for the appearance of the person concerned, since the procedure himself being subject to a client and procedure, his limited fellow citizen. In order to ensure that the rules on reimbursement of the cost of the introduction of the bill on 31 December 2017, i.e. Pp. on the day of its entry into force, the old Pp. The bill also provides for a transitional rule, which is adapted to the provisions amending Pp. [[13.00]] With this really small amendment, the bill therefore raises the rules on the payment of the costs of pre-trials in civil and non-court proceedings and administrative court proceedings to a legal level. At the same time, the bill does not affect the detailed rules currently laid down at the level of regulation concerning the extent of the costs incurred and the reimbursement of the costs incurred by implementing the advance. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, I ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2018-11-15-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-15-99	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the House to support the Congressman's proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Vitányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Over the past few years, we have witnessed the government's commitment to creating new codes of procedure adapted to and effectively responding to modern conditions. Codes containing standards governing civil, criminal and administrative procedures were established in the light of the traditions of Hungarian law, constitutional guarantees, our national traditions of public law and the generally accepted international standard. Dear House, The Civil Procedure Act entered into force on 1 January 2018 and became mandatory. The law is of great importance for civil proceedings and, as such, has introduced marked changes in the usual practice. As a result, it is generally accepted that there is a demand on the part of the law-abiding and law-seeking audiences to promote practical application for them by the legislator. In the case of high-quality reforms, it is never possible to adapt from one to the other to the new rules. Therefore, on the side of the Parliament, the obligation arises to correct the legislation that has already been drawn up with the assistance of its legislative power, taking into account the practical needs and the positions of the profession. This is no different for the proposal before us, which aims to ensure the coherence of the legal system by changing the standards governing the area of law in response to the legislative changes that have taken place. Ladies and gentlemen, Civil order provides an opportunity to use pre-accession as a coercive instrument against witnesses, experts and parties in order to ensure their appearance. The provision for determining, paying and reimbursement of the cost of pre-leading is currently governed by a ministerial decree. The reason for this is that the new law was based on the old rules of 1952, which did not provide for reimbursement of the costs of the promotion. Under the Regulation in force, the predecessor is liable to bear the costs incurred. In the light of the other new codes of procedure adopted, the aim of the proposal before us is to regulate, from now on, the cost of pre-direction by the police in civil proceedings at a legal level. The proposal shall, in the light of the coherence between legislation, settle the rules for the payment of pre-direction costs in administrative litigation, other administrative court proceedings and civil non-court proceedings, which shall be governed by civil procedure. The rules of the bill on cost-sharing are largely in line with the relevant rules of the joint regulation. On the basis of this, it should be pointed out that the costs incurred by the State in the course of a janitorial suit relating to the pre-direction to be placed under the janitorial authority or placed under the janitorial authority are borne by the State. The bill therefore seeks to lay down rules that we have been able to establish so far from several sources of law and on the basis of several factors for the sake of clear and clear regulation. Dear Parliament, The coherence and transparency of the legal system can be ensured by the adoption of the amendments contained in the proposal, which aim to regulate the costs of civil and non-court proceedings and of pre-trial proceedings at the level of law. However, the detailed rules for determining and recovering the costs incurred in implementing the pre-financing will continue to be laid down at the level of a regulation. By carefully considering the reasons set out in the bill and the arguments expressed in the expoze, the Fidesz parliamentary group supports the submitted bill. My fellow Members, please do the same. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2018-11-15-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now address Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-15-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Civil order makes it quite clear, firm and precise, as the old one does in this respect, the legal consequences of any omission. When it comes to the assumption that a person is failing in a court case, it should be the minimum and should have been expected of the legislator earlier to place all the consequences of the omission within the provisions of the law. At some point, the cost of pre-financing as an institution for the legal consequences of default has been degraded to a ministerial decree, but we always strive to put a serious disadvantage ahead of us and to bear costs today, as life should be regulated at a very expensive legal level. In civil proceedings opened until 31 December 2017, the old civil order should be applied, and it would be extremely unpleasant and, indeed, extremely detrimental for judges and secretaries, for example, to constantly quote the Ministerial Decree in one document on the cost of pre-financing, and in the other case, which started on 1 January 2018, the provisions of the law. In this way, it was justified to extend the transitional provisions to include the amendment proposal. In this way, therefore, there is no doubt that the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this initiative, given that, in its legal content, this legislative modification proposal does not change the rules so far. However, on which you are changing, and I very much welcome this, and I would like at least for the three and a half years remaining in my term to see in every legislation such fair provisions in respect of our fellow countrymen who are living their lives in a significantly disadvantaged situation, such as those placed under care or those who stand before it, so we welcome the fact that in such a case the State actually bears the costs. Therefore, since this proposal basically resolves a lack of coherence, this proposal does not change the rules so far, in any way adversely vis-à-vis citizens, or finally puts this provision where it has been, and therefore the Jobbik faction will support this proposal with a yes. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács and Csaba Hende applaud.]]
u2018-11-15-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-15-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The T/3252 ahead. Bill No. 1 on Civil Procedure 2016 CXXX. It contains an amendment to a law on a subject the regulation of which, in substance, has not been critical, since it has so far included a financial disadvantage for the defaulting party, in which case the obligation to pay the cost of the pre-leading was included in the Hungarian legislation that is still in force today. What makes it necessary to amend the Civil Procedure Act is that of a constitutional guarantee system, the precise starting point of which is that regulation requiring a natural person or a legal person to have an obligation is not sufficient to regulate it in constitutional or lower-level legislation. [[13.10]] In the present case, after the 2016 CXXX. At the time of the adoption of a law, it was not possible to require the late party to pay the costs of the advance, but this was included in the lower level of legislation, so the Christian Democratic People's Party also considers it appropriate to regulate the obligation to pay the costs within the legal framework by amending the Civil Procedure Act. Since the Civil Procedure Act is, as it were, a mother law for administrative proceedings and non-court proceedings In this regard, the requirement set out in the proposal should also be applied in such procedures, and we thank my fellow Member Mr Csaba Hende for initiating this with his proposal to amend the legal anomaly, so the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the adoption of the proposed proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Head speaker for the MSZP Group, Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, a content debate may not have to be expected in this bill, since it is a story of a higher legislative transfer of existing legislation. Another question is that, as my fellow Member has already mentioned, why has this been left out of the new Pp adopted in the last Fidesz era, and here I would just gently refer a little back to my previous comment on the quality of the previous legislation and the debate on the previous law, which is what we were thinking about when we talked about the problems. I would like to add one more to Mr. Secretary Völner's attention, if I may. I'm guessing you talk to Secretary Trocsányi sometimes, see him. Today, Minister, you have given an interview in which you say, among other things, that this situation is important for Trócsányi: since his entry into office, the number of laws submitted by Members has decreased significantly. As you say, there have been times when a great code has entered the House in this way. However, he never agreed with that, and he had many debates about it. I quote the minister, literally: it has happened that someone has brought us a law to submit it. I told you not to do that. You can come to work here because the legislation is here. I mean, in the Ministry of Justice, the Minister remembers and emphasizes that he wants the government to become the author of the law in most cases. In this bill, the Minister failed to comply with this important principle and the Ministry of Justice, because we are seeing a serious amendment of a code once again by submitting it to a Member; however, we have no debate on the content of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, from the Fidesz Group, Mr Lajos Kósa. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-15-109	Mr. President. Dear House, I would simply like to say the following to Mr Bellozó's comment. Of course, in the Hungarian Parliament, as a general rule, what has always been achieved is that the vast majority of the legislative proposals are submitted by the government. This has always been the case, even if, in the case of, say, the number of Members' motions was relatively higher, but the principle has always been applied, in this sense Mr Trocsányi is, of course, right. But Mr Harangozó did not mention that there is an exception, and indeed there is legislation that is particularly fortunate if it is not submitted by the government, but by Parliament. For example, such is the house rule, which takes the form of a law; for example, the Act on Parliament, because it would not be tasteful that Parliament, which is to control the government and vote on the Prime Minister, should present the relevant legislation. But I can say the electoral law; likewise, it would be unfortunate for the government to put forward a electoral law on the basis of which it is elected, and it is right for the factions or Parliament to present it. And there are a number of other rules, especially those, such as the Act on the Status of Representatives, that would not be lucky if the Act on the Status of Representatives was put forward by someone else instead of Parliament. By the way, this is our practice, so if you look at the legislative proposals specifically relating to the control of the government, the election, the functioning of Parliament, the status of Members, as a general rule, it was submitted by our faction and not by the government. So the principle is also true, with the remark that there are legislative proposals of a political nature that Parliament must submit. By the way, in this case, we are dealing with the correction of an error that is not a comprehensive regulation, so it is not that someone has now presented a whole code, as Members can, of course, present a proposal in small and small cases or even in large cases, without prejudice to any principle of this House. It is right for the Ministry of Justice to express its opinion on whether this is of good quality or not, because let's just think about it, Mr Harangozó himself has recently tabled a proposal, otherwise it is precisely about the status of military defenders and the status of law enforcement organisations, which was right for us to present it and not for the government, because otherwise the government would open an EU debate as a national, which it is not certain that we should now bring forward. So with this austerity, I believe that the Minister of Justice can also adhere to the procedures and principles he represents, while we do not violate the general political principles. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tamás Bellozó asked for a word. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I am very pleased that Mr Kósa has come, because he always shines on the debate of the parliamentary sittings, and especially the meetings of the committee. [[Lajos Kósa: Thank you very much. Mr. President, this should be on the record. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, not always with your truth and skill, but with your style in any way. That is exactly what I would like to point out to my fellow Member that the argument that he has said is not really useful here, because what he has listed laws is not always as you said, but this bill is not specifically about the legal status of Parliament and not about the regulation of the functioning of Parliament or of the political system, but about Pp.; I think he must have watched which law is being debated; one. Secondly, we should not be arguing about this because you must have heard, my fellow Member, that I did nothing but quote the words of your Minister of Justice, so you are not obviously arguing with me on this issue, but with your own government, which, I understand, is not as usual with you. [[Lajos Kósa: There is an example.]] And it's not elegant according to their internal rules.
u2018-11-15-112	Congressman Kósa, press the button. I'd be happy to give you the floor.
u2018-11-15-113	Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Vice-President Csaba Hende, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the groups for their unanimous support, since all the speakers have expressed their support for the adoption of the proposal. Who submits the bill, who can submit it, why it is submitted, in this respect, our Fundamental Law clearly provides for the definition of who has the right to initiate the law, and, among other things, of all the Members of Parliament, both 199, so I have the right, especially if, by the way, it is not disputed by any one of us, that we will settle a politically neutral technical and professional issue, so to speak, by submitting a bill. [[13.20]] So to confront this procedure with the press statement of our Minister of Justice, it seems a little forced and not very adequate. That's how I wanted to reflect on the recent polemia. Thank you very much for your support. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-15-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain legislation on migration and related matters until closure. The government referral is T/3366. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, security is the most important Community value, which the government will protect by all means at its disposal. The extreme migratory pressure experienced in recent years poses a new challenge for Europe as a whole, which requires a continuous review of national legislation. In Hungary, there is a set of rules developed on the basis of national interests, which clearly defines how to relate to migration, who we allow in and who we do not let in, why we let in and how long we can stay here. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: We can see that!]] This system of rules is not based on abstract principles, but on the interests of the Hungarian people, Hungary. In order to meet the challenges of migration at a level similar to that of the past, or even higher, if possible, we will broaden the powers of foreign police. Security is a community value for which we must always do more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. In the Ministry of the Interior, it is a tradition to conduct seven-party or multi-party negotiations, and we consider it important to cooperate with the factions. Therefore, on 7 November 2018 we sent the bill to all the political groups for an opinion: if any group has a request or a proposal, then the Ministry of Interior is ready to negotiate in order to achieve the best possible, most effective bill with the highest support. I trust that this bill, which we are discussing here, has the support of all the political groups, because no political groups have indicated a willingness to negotiate or propose amendments to us. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, An important change in the bill is the increased control powers of the foreign police and asylum authority in order to prevent, detect and improve control of abuses related to the residence of foreigners in Hungary. The bill contains a number of provisions in the field of foreign police licensing and also extends the possibility of electronic administration. According to the bill before this House, third-country family members of Hungarian citizens will no longer have the right of free movement and residence, but instead they will be subject to general rules on third-country nationals in accordance with the provisions of other EU Member States. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] An important element of the proposal is the amendment of the Asylum Act, which regulates overlaps between asylum and foreign police powers. The title of residence under the Asylum Act shall be revoked if a person obtains a permit to reside under another title. The proposal contains a number of provisions on the current electronic administration options to be introduced in the field of foreign police licensing. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In some cases, it will be possible to initiate an application electronically. Due to the need to record biometric data, a legal and security requirement for personal appearance remains. Therefore, the possibility of electronic administration is partial, as it cannot be at the expense of safety. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative amendments submitted provide adequate guarantees for effective monitoring of the residence of foreigners in Hungary and for the control of immigration to Hungary. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-15-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-119	Mr. President. Dear House, The Fidesz faction considers the safety of the Hungarian people extremely important, that Hungary can protect its borders as much as itself; that the Government of Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, and the Hungarian voters can jointly decide who we live with, who we allow into our own country, who we give the opportunity to do so to whom we do not. [[Gergely Harvesto: We can see who they're giving it to!]] Of course, the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government, is a sincere and committed believer of the European Union, and we fully respect the international laws and the law of the Union that apply to us. Therefore, when it comes to the refugee crisis, the migrant crisis, we still fully respect the Schengen Convention, the Dublin Conventions, and we act accordingly. We won't let anyone in Europe who doesn't have an entry permit. Of course, in order to achieve this goal, it is necessary not only to establish a physical border barrier, but also to use very, very many legal instruments. From the amendment of the Constitution to the simple ministerial decrees, they all ensure that, without prejudice to the general rights of the people, without prejudice to the freedom of the Hungarian people, without prejudice to the non-bullying lives of the Hungarian people, but also by the means of the law, that the struggle that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament are pursuing for the security of the people, for the integrity of Hungary, will lead to success. Several of these amendments have been made before Parliament. Perhaps the most memorable was when we first tabled the amendment to the basic law against migration; it did not receive a majority in Parliament. Since then, the acceptance of such domestic laws has been uneven; some have been supported by the opposition, which have not. On the other hand, it is quite certain: Fidesz and KDNP consistently and on each occasion fully supported the Government's efforts to protect the security of Hungarian people, Hungary's independence, Hungary's freedom and Hungary's independence with the means of law. We will therefore support this bill. We are open to improving amendments. This is what the committee that I have led has done, and we have accepted a number of amendments and rejected others, but we have accepted them with an open heart. The Fidesz fraction will support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-15-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-15-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3366 ahead. Legislative proposal No 1 on the amendment of certain legislation on migration and related matters, in fact amends ten legal bases. In his view, he reviewed the adequacy and coherence of the legislation so far in the multiplicated alien police procedures created as a result of migration, and concluded that in paragraph 91 he was trying to clarify, try to establish the bridging solutions in a legislative environment that could serve the purpose of those who entered Hungary, need any status, and in whatever form the entry into Hungary, their movement, their status, their person, their aims and their adoption into the legal environment in Hungary should contain very coherent, transparent and clear rules for everyone. [[13.30]] Therefore, the Jobbik Group supports this package of amendments, but I would like to draw attention to one or two issues, and I would like to ask the representatives of the government to help us in these two issues to overcome the doubts that we have had since 2015 in relation to the very large number of people from the third world to the territory of Hungary and thus to the EU. This is the provision in which the proposal is made that, for other purposes, a third-country national who has an interest in his entry and residence in Hungary may also be granted a residence permit if he fulfils the legal conditions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's a very broad term. I would like to refer to the provisions of the legislation for the creation of settlement bonds, the beginning of which was clearly the voice and the starting point of the legislation to give the possibility of that legal institution to persons already investing in Hungary. And what did we see during the permit procedure? We have seen that the buyers of these settlement bonds did not actually have to justify their investments in Hungary, and whenever we asked the competent organization to let us look into these procedures, and let us see if the twenty-one thousand people who, on the one hand, as customers and, on the other hand, as family members, have actually invested in Hungary. Now, in this place of law, a very, at least very precise and beautifully for Jobbik, with the capacity to fill the legal gaps, comes again such a very wide, really, I think that a somewhat incomprehensible rule, not in a legal sense, is not incomprehensible, but it gives a very broad provision for the subjective circle to be used, which is entirely contrary to the very strict conditions in other places of the law. We want to make sure there aren't any loopholes like that. If someone from a third country wants to come to Hungary, there are legal conditions, whether they want to stay here in the longer term, whether they want to settle down or get citizenship, they are perfectly and precisely regulated by every law; if they can't follow this, it's okay if they don't get such rights in Hungary. But at some point, this investment issue comes up again, which must be understood by honourable pro-government representatives and state leaders in the opposition naturally triggers a reaction. So investment and easier access to any form of status, from now on we have such... doubts as to what the purpose of this legislation is now. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State, on the one hand, to explain the reason for this, to disperse our doubts. And the other one, which also gives us such a very big loophole and opens a very wide door, is 68. §, where you say that those who do not have certain documents can make up for it by making a statement. Well, we know that there are countries in Asia and Africa where personal records are not so much European and not so much traceable and not so verifiable, and I think that this is also a kind of valve or a wide-open door that could be abused by people who really can't prove that whatever status they have asked for in Hungary, we should give it to them. For us, it is very important that anyone who is here from abroad in Hungary, in a very precise legal environment, with a very serious sanctioning system, officials of the authorities who are involved in this work have very precise powers, and that our country should not actually be a place for migrants to roam. This legislation does this by the way, because it eliminates a lot of problems with coherence and fills a lot of holes, so I was really surprised when I read this, that it would have been evident to us that now that it was deleted from a register, that it would notify this, and that it would put it there, so there were a lot of these little rules; you might have thought that they were already clearly included in the legislation. But it is also a fact that in 2015 this had to be a rather legislative tsunami to cause the crisis situation that has arisen, and in that there may be such shortcomings, so I would not want to be responsible for it, unless it seems now that with this legislation the gates will be closed, and smoothing out how people who have come to Hungary for this reason should be treated, let me ask you, until the vote takes place, or explain to us these two too broad wordings, definitions of exactly what you are thinking, or at least a little narrowing down, a little bit, to close the tap so that certain people may be able to live back. But there is one end to a hundred words: the proposal is justified, and it is natural that we will support it, because Hungary does not miss the fact that the mass of migrants can pass through us, or that we must even deal with them in our lives and cause a social crisis. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr József Attila Móring, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-15-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The T/3366 ahead. The KDNP fraction supports the amendment of legislation on migration and related matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior in his expo said that security is the most important Community value guaranteed by the government by all means at its disposal, and he also said that the government itself decides who is allowed into this country and who is not. We see, Mr. Secretary, this is making the whole country loud. We see, and I would ask, that if we are talking about a law on migration and further tightening up this area, then how can it happen that you arrive in Hungary without a convicted criminal passport, here in front of the whole country in a luxury hotel in the city, and also from a country that the Hungarian government itself calls a safe third country, so that Hungary does not accept refugees on request. On what basis does the Ministry of Interior intend to ask the Hungarian Parliament for any support in the present situation when putting the entire country in jeopardy with this matter when they violate the laws which they themselves have adopted in this Parliament? And I think it says a lot about this country that today two images can be seen: one is an ex-Prime Minister, the political ally of the current Hungarian Prime Minister, who has been convicted by the court of his own country for corruption crimes, and who, in violation of all the laws in force in the present situation, is allowed into Hungary, waiting in a luxury hotel for his individual assessment; and the other picture is that, let's say, Pécs, one of the homeless is being produced for a second time, by the way, as an animal, because he is otherwise in a financial and social situation that he is unable to maintain his own apartment. One of the convicted felons lives at the Corinthia Grand Hotel and the homeless man stands in court. [[13.40]] With the full force of the law and the time and money of the police, they chase the Hungarian citizens, and with the other, they help a criminal in the country; once again, they violate all regulations on this. After all, Mr. Secretary, according to your rules, everyone here knows precisely that, at best, a man who lodges an asylum application without a passport should wait in the transit zone, on the one hand, to assess his case and, on the other hand, whether he will sooner or later receive food or not. I didn't read in the law the establishment of the Corinthia Grand Hotel, either in the asylum law or in the laws relating to third-country nationals. From this point on, regarding the migration law, I believe the Ministry of the Interior is here before the National Assembly, until you tell us what is currently going on in the country and how the law is being violated and how this man got into the country... they ordered the Hungarian border police to break the laws and let him in? Or was there a passport manager, a border police officer who looked away for a second and let this man in? I can't imagine that, by the way, Mr. Secretary. It is much more likely and realistic that a law has been violated by political direction, which we know exactly what it means and what it should have in principle, at least in the rule of law and legal certainty expressed by Congressman Hende in the former law in Hungary. With regard to this proposal, we have one question, which we do not understand. What we obviously understand is that they're doing all kinds of procedural tightening, so that there's practically no way anyone can appeal. If you have to file an appeal in 24 hours in a foreign country, it's probably more than funny, but we're used to it, it's a direction you're going. You tell me, Mr. State Secretary, why Hungarian citizens are being punished and why they are being taken away from Hungarian citizens by taking away from third-country family members of Hungarian citizens, born in Hungary, the opportunity they have had so far to live together in Hungary, and those rules apply to them, as always, so that they are not treated as aliens by the country, but as family members of a Hungarian citizen. What's the reason for that? Do you see any major statistical changes in the mass of people making false marriages from Serbia or Ukraine, thus endangering the safety of Hungarian people? Or tell us what the reason is that, by the way, there are probably not too many cases where, for example, the sons or daughters of our country connect their lives with a foreign national, we have to piss them off for five years by having to live here in the same way as they do, and the rest of them have to fulfil the conditions of a total stranger who walks into this country. After all, the victim of this proposal is not only the person from a third country but also our own fellow citizen, our own Hungarian citizen. Of course, we would still like to hear the reply of the Ministry of the Interior. However, as long as there is this shame, this stamp on the country's forehead, that the whole world is now again dealing with the fact that the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Minister of Interior, for obvious political reasons, violates their own laws, international conventions and everything that is supposed to be sacred, I think that talking about migration laws here in the Hungarian Parliament is more ridiculous than serious. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-15-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-15-127	Mr President, Dear House, I was very surprised to recreate this bill last night, and I looked in it for specific rules for convict buddies. I looked for where this bill contained the possibility, for example, to apply for asylum at your foreign representations. I also looked where the rule will be deleted, of course, in retrospect, that asylum applications can only be lodged in transit zones; where the rule that the asylum seeker should stay in the transit zone during the procedure will be deleted. I have been looking for where it appears that Macedonia is not, by the way, a safe country of origin, from which asylum applications must automatically be rejected, but from now on it is not a safe country of origin. I have been searching for the reasons why Serbia is not a safe third country; this has been introduced by you, not so long ago, by amending the asylum law, which should also involve automatic rejection of asylum applications. But I couldn't find this anywhere. Dear Secretary of State. Dear Congressman! What are we talking about here? What is the asylum system in Hungary? You were talking about protecting this country, and here, too, the congressman said that it would be stopped here, and it would be good, and then it would be so safe to say so. No one can come here. The one who runs away from war with his family will be locked in the transit zone. If you come to this country as a minor when you're 12, you'll be locked in the transit zone. Even you are ashamed of this because the Ministry of Interior refused to tell me five consecutive questions about how many minors are being held in the transit zone so that we do not get involved in terminology disputes: how many minors are in the transit zone. By the way, in violation of their obligations under the parliamentary law, they refuse to answer that question. You can see that this is untenable; compared to this, there are migrants who are free of all things, I see who are not subject to any rules. Now, let's start arguing about how the asylum authority's task of monitoring is going to work? Checking what? The one he's allowed to check out. Some people don't need to be checked because they took pictures with the Prime Minister, and he said first that he was a stop Soros, and then I didn't even talk about business relations. So, my dear fellow Members, Honourable Secretary of State. Let's not make a clown out of Parliament any more than you do on a regular basis. We're gonna pretend like this is really important. There's even a positive measure in there, really. A European human rights court decision is accidentally implemented in this bill. I'm sure your colleagues weren't paying attention, and they accidentally adapted to European law once. But on the one hand, it makes no sense to argue about the details until it is all right, because regardless of the fact that the Hungarian asylum system does not comply with the international commitments undertaken by Hungary. There is an infringement procedure against Hungary in this case because it does not comply with EU legislation. They don't touch these, they don't do anything. How do I put this delicately? The stale bathroom you have made the Hungarian asylum system is decorated and decorated with a facade where it is tightened up and where it is not tightened up. I would also like to reassure Mr Bellozó that there is no danger of marrying, because, using the possibility of dual citizenship and mass naturalisation, anyone can obtain it with complete tranquility, we know that, abusing this right, the Hungarian citizenship from these countries that you mentioned; or anyone could obtain the right of freedom of residence and free movement with the obligation of establishment earlier. They just found someone because there really is no longer a migrant, because no one is actually coming to the Hungarian border with whom the Hungarian citizens are not Hungarian family members. Now they're having a little fun with them so they can be proud and tell them how tough they are against migraines. Dear Secretary of State. Be courageous first against the convicted criminals arriving here, and then deal with the family members and children of Hungarian citizens. In conclusion, we consider this bill to be false and pointless in the present situation. Until the government answers questions concerning the ex-Prime Minister of Macedonia, until all the details of this case are known, those who bear responsibility for this will be held accountable, this asylum system and your activities will be uncredited and pointless to talk about. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-15-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have speeches from Members. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-15-129	Mr President, Dear House, The routine of many years encourages me to start thinking about the underlying goal of the government when the government makes a migration proposal for us. [[13.50]] As regards the city of Lajos Kósa, we had an argument and a discussion, when a few years ago we noted that the so-called refugee hostel in Debrecen had been broken out by savages who attacked innocent civilians, and here in the House we called for a migration crisis to unfold and for the government to do something, so here we have received the fact that there is no migration problem in Hungary. The fact is that we have already written 2015 here, so the first great waves of the Albanians in Kosovo have already started, the later arrivals have not yet been able to meet, but it is very difficult to deal with these proposals with appropriate moderation. By the way, I find a lot of elements in it that are professionally forward-looking, positive, and sophisticate the current system, where appropriate in the right direction. However, my well-prepared colleague has already mentioned the two points that virtually vaporize or at least erod the intention to support her. I have to say, exactly government communications are facing those points that are amazingly present now in the sphere protected by Fidesz. Which is 68. For example, in the section on the submission of the applicant's application, it may be replaced by a declaration that if a person does not have a document... Ladies and gentlemen. The whole point of Fidesz-KDNP mainstream communication for years has been that it was born here for public announcements and every third on 1 January, and that the data that can be obtained in this way is actually unreliable... and Fidesz-KDNP makes a proposal to us. Obviously, not only did you draw from your own well, but the various offices have also directed you in this regard, but it is quite amazing that a simple statement can replace what we want to know more about anyway. However, I would like to remind you that in this area of reality, if you wanted to put a package of migrations on the table, you might have had to add a few more issues. I would very much like to have a meaningful, meaningful debate on the system of settlement bonds. Secretary of State, how can there be a difference between the BMH and the residency bond statistics of intermediary companies? How is it possible that an immigrant of 6585 foreign investors on one front, accepted by Fidesz, was registered by intermediary companies after 6570 people? With statistics that simple to follow, how can they be different? I would like to note that this system, which you have brought in here, has been supported, has come to us with the justification that the financing need of the Hungarian national economy was to replace the missing funds with settlement bonds. We looked at the period during which this business was supposed to make more money than those on external markets and other markets, and we found that there were only five months in Hungary's history when this explanation could still be sold, and in all other months the withdrawal of external funds would clearly have been better for the country. I see, Mr Secretary, that you are reluctant to hear this because you do not think it is relevant. Obviously, if the lead president is going to reprimand me or silence me or try to silence me, then it's possible to deviate from this subject, but because it's unpleasant for you, we still need to talk about it. We need to talk about you looting the Hungarian people! You're lying about safety while you let the Hungarian citizens rob! Intermediary companies in the order of a hundred billion dollars, Mr Secretary of State, brokerage companies of your presumably acquaintances have damaged the Hungarian budget. You know that very well. Why were such intermediary companies needed in Europe in an unprecedented way in a design that you do not see in other European countries? Mr. Secretary, I'll finish this line of thought so I don't overwhelm your neurological limits. [[Károly Kontra: I am patient.]] But answer me one thing. Do you think it's acceptable that we needed a Caymanian brokerage company in your fidesz construction? Was it necessary, in your opinion, to address the Hungarian national economy's lack of resources, using offshore havens? Do you really think this could be sold as an explanation, along with national interests? That's just ridiculous. It's professionally indefensible. Obviously, this is not a question against the person who is sitting in this room, because you have the unpleasant task of representing the unmemberable. But I would like to tell you that there are also points of concern in the package before us, which I am not at all able to express so convincingly about their support, because we have a lot of concerns. I must also tell you that third-country nationals are being talked about in this proposal, in particular, in Article 30. In the context of their investments in Hungary, they have an amazing interest in their entry and stay. So, basically, they're doing a self-certification on the fact that they're handing out the right of establishment, citizenship, along investor interests, and they come up with such broad explanations that virtually any foreign-quoted investor can fit in. And then I didn't even talk about Gruevski and others. But I would also like to say to you that I think it is false, at least the justification, while Ukrainian migrant workers are allowed to recruit in the country at the expense of Hungarian workers in several cases, while they tolerate the fact that Indian labour force is now also involved in Hungarian agriculture in a certain geographical region, in an amazing way; we also see that they do not like to talk about the bond scheme, I understand that, but at least adjust the statistical part of it, my request is that there are clear differences between the statistics of the BMH, the statistics of the intermediary companies and those that have appeared to the public. These are the reasons for calculating the damage suffered by the Hungarian budget on the bond scheme, and since this damage can be proved and proved, it is clear that those responsible for it will not be able to avoid being held accountable. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone has applied for a two-minute speech. [[No one's reporting.]] So it's been decided within the faction. Then it is now time for Congresswoman Márta Demeter to speak. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-15-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Now the legislative package that is in front of this House is amending the migration laws, which now contains a lot of technical things and a lot of legal work. While there are parts of this legislative change package that are otherwise eligible, we must say that, overall, Hungarian people will not be safe from it. So, unfortunately, we have to say that the government has not taken the steps that should have been taken, which are meaningful action, so that these processes can be repressed, and that it can actually be achieved that everyone in their own country is doing well. The LMP fraction has already submitted its proposal for a decision on the management of the migration situation, in which we have summarised what should be done specifically in order to manage this situation. Unfortunately, so far, there has been absolutely no reception capacity on the part of the government to implement these steps, and I am sad to see that I have now tried to put on the agenda on several occasions in the Defence and Police Committee to report on the migration strategy adopted by the pro-government majority in 2013, on what they did, as there were very specific elements in which to take steps to strengthen the security system, whether in terms of the foreign police authority or in terms of police bodies. To date, it does not appear that any of this has been implemented, nor does it appear that the government has any long-term or even medium-term vision of how this situation should be dealt with and how security should be guaranteed. As I said, this amending package also contains a lot of technical things, a lot of legal activities, but security does not come from this, the guarantee of security can not be built with this, but, for example, it should start by closing the gates that the current government has opened first. For example, this was the establishment bond scheme, which has been functioning since 2013 and has recently abolished the legal place on which these could be placed. You've allowed 20,000 people in without a substantial security check. In many cases, it has been found that criminals could enter Hungary in this way. There have been cases in which I have filed a complaint myself, and I have received a clear answer that the Immigration and Asylum Office does not consider the money-laundering man of the Assad regime to be a criminal enough, who is also on the ban list, and I think it is not a question that this man should not be here in Hungary. [[14.00]] So what should be done is to close the legal possibilities that were opened by themselves. By the way, this has happened in only one case so far. In total, in one case, it was the settlement bond scheme. There was a huge social outrage in this case. Precisely Hungarian society has realised that the government that is campaigning against immigration and constantly trying to believe that it is fighting illegal migration has allowed criminals into the country. This legislative space has been removed, rightly, by social pressure and pressure from opposition representatives. But let's see, the bill that we have before us, what else it contains, because I told you that it has eligible elements, but there is one very important thing that I would like to highlight, which is insufferable and unacceptable. And that's just a re-opening of the settlement bond scheme. I would like to quote the specific legal place: for other purposes, a third-country national who has an interest in his entry and stay in Hungary can also obtain a residence permit. So all they're doing is basically re-smuggling the settlement bond scheme, opening up this opportunity, and it's even worse than it was before, because they don't even set a specific amount. So far, 300,000 euros have been paid by those who wanted to apply for a lifelong residence permit. This EUR 300,000 will now not be necessary. It is quite amazing that while they are talking about protecting the country, they themselves provide the security of Hungarian people to criminals, and these people, in the settlement bonds, we have seen that they paid to offshore companies, most of which are related to government circles; Antal Rogán and Árpád Habony's names have also come up in order in relation to these companies. So they were constantly rich, with more than HUF 150 billion, while Hungarian taxpayers had only the disadvantage of this construction; it caused the state to lose nearly HUF 30 billion. The fact that they want to reopen this opportunity is proof that they do not want to protect Hungary. We are presenting two amendments to this specific legislative package that you have brought here. One of them is that this paragraph, which would reopen the settlement bond structure, should not be left in the law. So our amendment will take this out. And the other is that you've issued 20,000 residence permits. In many cases, it has been confirmed, and it has also been proven, by the signal of international authorities, that criminals have taken advantage of this opportunity, and that even counterintelligible secret service personnel and terrorists could be granted lifelong residence permits. It is therefore necessary to withdraw all the permits issued in this way, and you know that there is, in law, every possibility of doing so. So in this legislative package, we submitted the proposal to terminate all issued residence and residence permits issued on 31 January 2019, which concern permits issued to so-called investors and often criminals through offshore companies linked to the Rogán-Habony circles, and with the very effective cooperation of Hungarian public bodies, should be withdrawn until 31 January 2019. If these amendments are supported by the Government and supported by pro-government representatives, technical elements in this proposal can be supported. However, if you do not support this and repatriate the country to criminals, now that they do not have to pay for it, this is another proof that they do not want to protect Hungary, but that private and business interests dominate here. Therefore, this proposal cannot be supported in any way on our part. Thank you.
u2018-11-15-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-11-15-133	Mr President, Dear House, I will take advantage of the moments of grace while I am still speaking as a Member about what I would like to talk about; because although I have already been under pressure from Fidesz-KDNP not to do so, fortunately, not substantial physical expression, and until this comes, I will not go too far into the general debate, but I will talk about what is the point of this proposal. We mentioned the two paragraphs that I think all opposition parties and every Hungarian sober-thinking person will object to. We haven't heard a government reaction in this regard yet, and obviously it will be done in the closet in a sentence and a half, where we can no longer react to it. It's not a gentlemanly attitude, but I don't want to judge you. However, with regard to the residency bond programme, which is now apt to say that the government wants to open up a little bit, I must tell you that there are incredible maladministration and that we cannot go without saying so. Exactly the 30th. § 1 is the one that expresses the involvement between the current proposal and the residency bond programme. So it would be difficult to get involved in why the opposition representative is talking about this. I would also like to say that there was a bond arrangement in other countries, yes. For example, there have been cases of a country's heavy business falling and trying to press foreign capital, foreign companies, to make heavy industrial investments in exchange for, say, the right of establishment; elsewhere, real estate development has done the same, so, where appropriate, they have tried to attract working capital into a falling or falling industry. What happened in Hungary was essentially nowhere to be seen, since in these countries it is typical where we listed these examples that the States concerned seek direct contact with those who would buy settlement bonds. In Hungary, on the other hand, the Government of Hungary has appointed five intermediary companies. He did this through the Economic Commission, its fidesz majority. Of these five, four were registered in an offshore paradise. Here was the mentioned Cayman Islands, which I told you about. We must say that the net loss of EUR 30 billion for the Hungarian budget came from this arrangement that Hungary could have achieved conditions more favourable to the international financial markets since the relevant months of 2015 than to pay 2% interest on bonds for five years. It is a perfectly transparent situation that the Hungarian budget in this area has suffered what and how much damage it has suffered. I'm confused that they're not trying to explain this certificate at government level. It's something spiced up with very clear mechanisms of corruption. Such an example is not known in Europe. Once again, it is typical that the State or agency or office concerned is trying to contact those who are now under 30. § would practically bring me back in this proposal, as he spoke of third-country nationals who had an interest in his alleged investments in Hungary in view of his entry and stay. So this is completely unacceptable to me. Article 30 § opens the door to what we have practically closed in Hungary. I was very confident that the suspension would be equivalent to the final discharge, but it seems that this government wants to force a methodology similar to the bond structure into the Hungarian national economy, which is why I say that this section of the proposal is completely unacceptable. If we can't accept this, we can't give our support to the whole package without the government changing that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-134	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2018-11-15-135	Thank you very much for the opportunity, Mr President. Back then, where my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, left off, I must say that I, too, see that this bill contains a lot of important elements, an important technical amendment that has become positive and changes the current legal order in a positive direction. And as my fellow Member, Márta Demeter, said, in the event that the two amendments that we have tabled are accepted by the pro-government majority, we will support these technical amendments with our vote. Before I began to comment on my content, it came up in 2015, when, my fellow Member mentioned it, Fidesz or the government had a very different attitude to the issue of migration. I'm taking advantage of the fact that you're here, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to ask you a question, and I'm confident that in the closing word, at least I'll get an answer to that. In 2015, the government decided to set up temporary reception centres, including the Martonfa settlement near Pécs. The residents of the municipality and the area learned this from the bulletin, so there was no prior consultation, and the only reason why this temporary reception camp was not built is because, at the request of the local government, opposition parties, opposition parties in the area and the people living there started a series of very effective protest demonstrations. [[14.10]] It was an irresponsible, dictatorial decision, without even asking the people who lived there. My question would also be, in particular, when will the Government repeal this regulation, which concerns the establishment of the reception camp in Martonfa. They stopped building the camp, but this decree is still... [[Károly Kontra: Has camp been built there?]] They are not building the camp, but I would like to ask when this regulation will be repealed, because it is obviously disturbing to the people who live there that the regulation is still in force. And then, returning specifically to the question of the migration crisis, in response to the introduction and to what my opposition colleagues have said, let me recall Minister Gergely Gulyás. On Monday, he held a press conference and talked about Hungary's attack on its position on migration and the campaign against Hungary. By the way, we have heard this many times over the last few weeks and months that there is international pressure on the Hungarian government because of its migration position. The way we can appreciate this is that this is a kind of desperate cutting, so the government is practically in a position to be isolated in international politics at such a level that it can no longer enforce its policy, otherwise it cannot participate in matters, international current decision-making processes in which a responsible government should otherwise be involved. So practically the government has already become incapacitated and is incapable of representing the interests of the Hungarian people in this matter. In parallel, however, it rejects all opposition proposals on the matter without a word and without a substantive debate. My fellow Member has already mentioned that the LMP has submitted a proposal for a resolution, which included important and immediate measures. In practice, the government did not allow it to be placed on the agenda, so that the majority of the government's parties would have said their views or made proposals for amendments; whereas international politics has already become inadequate to make one point of view in this matter at all. And I think we all know, and we all agree that this migration crisis can become so severe, and if we don't deal with the causes, then, in the medium term, the migratory pressure can be so great that it can lead to tragedy. In practice, it is a matter of fate for all Europe and so all Hungarians, citizens of all countries, citizens of all European Union countries, to be able to deal with this crisis, to explore the causes of the migratory pressure, and to take action to address these causes. There is no effort to do this either in domestic politics or in European politics. In this context, we are committed to launching this process, and we will launch an initiative in European policy, as well as possible, which can finally launch the debate on the genuine identification of the causes, so that it can take the first steps of action. At the same time, we believe that it is necessary not only to do this alone, but, if possible, to join forces here on issues on which there is agreement. Therefore, we have already announced this at a press conference today that we will initiate a seven-party discussion on migration by expecting the competent government politician to be consulted on the seven-party basis, and we would like to finally have a debate on these issues with a normal tone, not a party political basis. At this seven-party meeting, we would like to know exactly what kind of attack the Hungarian government is being attacked, what campaign the Hungarian government is campaigning as it says, or what kind of attack or campaign is being conducted against the Hungarian government. And we'd like the government to stop delirious and tell us what specific issues, what position, what kind of campaign is going on against this country. We would also like to see if, in addition to such sudden ad hoc measures, some of which may be important, the government has some sort of comprehensive strategy for dealing with the migration crisis. So we would like the government to give us the opportunity to see if there is such an idea, then it is known to the opposition factions. At this meeting, we would also like to present the principles and proposals that we have formulated and that we would like to represent in international politics for the safety of Hungarian people. And the most important objective of this initiative is that the government has failed to present proposals that the opposition could vote for, because it could have been done, we agree on a lot of fundamental issues. This could also be an important message for European policy, if we could work together, if not in full agreement, but in a very broad agreement, with the support of several opposition parties, to lay the groundwork on the issue of migration. We would like to make an attempt to do this, we will make a proposal to place this migration crisis at all, so we will make it clear that we see this as a process against which we must take action and that we can accept a solution aimed at enabling everyone to thrive in their homeland. This requires basically identifying the reasons, and not only at European level, but also at global level, to do everything possible to address these causes. It is perfectly clear, and we have always said that the most important task is to protect the EU's external borders, and it is important to stop illegal migration, because so far there is no policy to talk about. We also agree perfectly that immigration policy must remain a national competence. That is what we want and we want to include the causes of migration in a document. This is what we would like to discuss at this seven-party meeting, hoping that the government will also send its competent politician, and then it can be made clear that there is a very broad consensus on these fundamental issues in Hungary. And if we can do this, this can also be an important message at international level in European politics, and this can certainly help Hungary's interests to be better enforced. Thank you.
u2018-11-15-136	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I will ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2018-11-15-137	Dear House, I would like to point out to Mr President that I do not wish to abuse the patience of this House, and I could have done it for two minutes. I would like to point out two questions to Mr Secretary of State, which he will obviously not answer in the course of the debate, but I would consider it important to answer them. Beyond the bond issue, I could quote the Associated Press, where a top five list of who sold most of the same types of bonds in the world was compiled. Here, not surprisingly, the US and Canada led, in the third place Portugal was located in the fourth place of Hungary, surprisingly, and only after Australia. So you can see that the process we are talking about is also emerging at global level. I took it out of group dynamics that they didn't really want to talk about it right now. I'm asking you to make time for this in terms of closing. However, the answer to two questions is very relevant. One is the government's attitude towards the former world quota concept. I will not reveal a secret if I say that I would exercise zero tolerance against all forms of immigration, immigration, whatever quota it is, but here Prime Minister has raised the world quota within the United Nations. I would like to make a substantive clarification that Fidesz rejected this idea, Fidesz let go of this onion fever and does not want the world quota; that would be an important point to make. It is also important for me to keep border protection within the sphere of national sovereignty, but once again its position on Frontex is not clear to the government. I would like to say that in my view, the solution on this issue would be to create an independent Hungarian border guard, for which a better amendment is found in the list of budgetary amendments, but perhaps not only a better one, it would be possible to replace the otherwise well-serviced police and military officers, so that they can perform their own service in their own place. However, I have reservations that if the larger attack starts in a decade's perspective, for example, because of the rise of the African quotation mark, the Hungarian border protection alone can fulfil this task. I really hope so. With regard to Frontex, I wouldn't let anyone have any leftovers of sovereignty, but I am interested in the government's position on what solutions it considers feasible in such a crisis and who it would cooperate with at all. Minister of State, accepting this assistance does not mean transferring Hungarian sovereignty, and even if we Hungarians are going somewhere else, not so long ago Hungary sent forces to Macedonia, it does not mean that Macedonia would hand over certain parts of its sovereignty to Hungary. So, with regard to these forms of cooperation, we would be very interested in their position. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-11-15-138	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2018-11-15-139	Thank you very much for this opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Lajos Kósa and the Fidesz Group, who have given their support to the proposal, and Mr Attila Móring, who has said from the KDNP Group that they fully support it. Thank you for your support, and I would also like to ask you to support it with your vote. As regards the speeches made by the opposition representatives, I would like to start with a timeline, first of all, on behalf of Jobbik, with the comments of Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, in response to that. I would like to thank the Commissioner for the support she has expressed in her speech, and I will also answer her question. I also urge you to present an amendment right now, and then we will see how we can support it, because I think that the use of parliamentary instruments will certainly give us the opportunity to adopt the best bill here in this House. [[14.20]] Before I answer your two points, I find it strange that you have given your support to the proposal by a congresswoman, and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has opened a new front, and has brought questions outside the scope of the bill to the House, testing the House President's patience, but perhaps not fully pressing it. I have the impression, my fellow Members, that they are not in the same group, or that the faction has two positions, two speakers [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is called democracy, diversity!]] A sponsor and a completely different one, as Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said. It's like they haven't spoken to each other in this regard. Article 30 Several of my fellow Members have spoken to the section, not just Andrea Varga-Damm. I would like to say that this amendment is a clarification of a previous existing practice. The possibility of entry for other purposes may include several actual purposes, the coexistence of family members, from continuing studies to investing in significant value. On the other hand, the amendment is linked to the planned tightening up of the fact that, as it turns out, only senior officials who actually receive regular income from their company can obtain a residence permit in the case of the purpose of earning income. Once again, it's a tightening-up, not opening a new gate. This is a tightening up, fellow Members. So it's not a settlement policy. This has been raised by many, completely unfounded, and I do not want to list these fellow Members. So this is not the case, but this is a more restrictive provision, in line with the Hungarian national interests, honourable Members. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm the bill 68. He quoted or criticized his article. I would like to say that the bill is 68. According to Article 4 of the Act, the bill provides for the possibility of making a declaration if it does not have an authentic instrument. This often happens in asylum procedures, but the credibility of the declaration is examined by the authority, so there is no loophole! No loopholes, no big gates, my fellow Members. Otherwise, this is a rule of reference for the general administrative procedure, where the same provision is laid down. I wanted to highlight this in this respect. As far as my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó and his contribution are concerned: I regret that he will not listen to my answer, because I think that an important element of parliamentary democracy is that if anyone says something, it should be given the opportunity; audioatur et altera pars, as the Latin says, let the other party listen. He is not interested in my opinion, but I would tell the House that, on the one hand, the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Ministry of Interior, has never given any illegal instructions to the Immigration and Asylum Office or the police. I ask all my fellow Members to respect the high level of professional work that has not only earned and gained recognition of the staff of the Immigration and Asylum Office, but also of the police personnel, not only in Hungary, but also throughout Europe and even worldwide. They do not attack these institutions, as this violates Hungary's national interests, can damage Hungary's security and otherwise is completely unfounded. That's what I'd like to say. And I would like to say one more thing here at the beginning in response to the comments of my fellow opposition Members. They asked questions about a person. I would like to say that today the Prime Minister, who is the Prime Minister, has provided detailed and exhaustive information on this person, and I do not want to add. I would ask my fellow Members to adapt to this statement in this regard if they have any questions. As regards Mr Harangozó's comment on family members from third countries, the Government has examined the problems that have arisen in relation to the residence of foreigners, including abuse. With this amendment, the Authority can respond more effectively to possible abusive practices. In several Member States of the European Union, there is no equivalent requirement for EEA citizens in view of the family relationship of their own national with a third-country national. For example, Sweden, France, Bulgaria, Estonia, Lithuania. And I would also like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that those already with status can retain their rights under the transitional rules. So this is the future regulation that we have been talking about here. I would like to draw attention to two things on the contribution of Mr László Keresztes. Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of my expo, I said that the Ministry of the Interior had initiated a consultation with the political groups in keeping with its previous customs, and that if there is a motion for a bill, we would be happy to have them discussed, discussed and included in the bill. Once again, we have always been open to holding the five-party negotiations between 2014-18 and now the seven-party negotiations. Last time, there was such consultation on the Home Affairs Act package, and we have initiated it now. I'm sorry you didn't take that opportunity, by the way. In any case, I can suggest to you that, although you mentioned that you would submit an amendment to do so. As far as Martonfa is concerned, I have thought and thought about the Martonfa case in 2015, and, in my memory, but disprove me, Congressman, if I did not tell the truth, Tibor Pogácsás, my colleague of State Secretary, visited Martonfa, and informed the panel, the mayor, the people of Martonfa, of the plans. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt:]] But at the scene, on Martonfa, Congressman. Dismiss me, Congressman, if you don't. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: After the government decree has been issued!]] But at the scene. That's one of the things I'd like to say. And the other, honourable Member, is that Martonfa is not a camp, and I would like to say this, and I ask you not to scare the Martonfas. Would you like a camp in Martonfa, Congressman, to bring up this non-existent threat so many times? I don't know. [[Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: The decree is in effect!]] I would like to say that, after codification, it has now been decided by the government that Martonfa will not be a temporary reception centre. There was no social consultation because the design had not even begun. At the same time, I wanted to tell you that my colleague, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, was on the scene, as I recall, in the summer of 2015. I can't tell you the day now, but I'm sure you gave information to the locals in the summer of 2015. And once again, the camp wasn't even built. You're a serious man, and I'm asking you not to scare the Martonians with the danger that doesn't exist. [[László László Keresztes: If the decree is revoked, I will never mention it again!]] Don't scare me. I would also like to say that the government decides to open or terminate host institutions depending on the migration situation. This legislation is being revised. The Government of Hungary has always acted in the interests of the Hungarian people, and this is also the case for the future. The issue on the migration strategy has been raised, and one of the Members who spoke has been asking for it. I would like to say that the Hungarian government's migration strategy is clear and clear: the triple protection, the fight against the organisation of illegal migration and the protection of Hungarian borders, the national competence of border protection. We won't give you the key, the gate key. That is what I say to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, who is turning his back on me now, but I do not take this as rude. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: I have already turned towards you, Mr. Secretary of State.]] If you'll do me the honor of thanking you, Congressman. Once again, that is the case with this. We're not handing over border protection from national jurisdiction. We consider it very important, and Hungary is able to defend its borders. We've proven that in recent years. And we also proved that the Hungarian police, the border-hunting forces, can defend the Hungarian borders in cooperation with the Hungarian soldiers, the staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces. This organizational structure, this organizational system is working well. I ask you, honourable Member, to acknowledge this, and I ask you not to attack the current system of law enforcement, since it weakens the security of Hungary. I ask you to consider this, Congressman, as regards the future. [[14.30]] I would also like to say that the aim of the migration strategy adopted in 2013 was to summarise the measures related to the asylum and migration fund that will be set up in the 2014-20 cycle. The migration situation is constantly changing, but this document already included the principle of decisive action against illegal migration in 2013. The strategy also drew attention to international phenomena affecting migration, so that is the case. But once again, the government's migration strategy is clear, and these can be clearly and firmly monitored in the decisions and actions of the Hungarian Government in the last three and six months. This has gained prestige and respect in many states of Europe, as well as in the success of the Hungarian migration strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, I also answered Mr Dániel's questions. Once again, I am sorry for the speakers who have been trying to explain to this bill that this means reopening the settlement bonds and opening the loopholes. I strongly deny that. Once again, this bill serves the national interests of Hungary and serves the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. I ask my fellow Members to accept this. I would like to say that we are always looking at the amendments in substance, because it is very important that we are able to adopt the most effective law in Parliament for the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-140	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, You have less than an hour and a half before the amendments are tabled, so you have until 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on the publication of the Treaty on State Borders will follow until closure. The government referral is T/3356. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-11-15-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The present bill is previously the 2018 LI. leave the text of the contract published by law unchanged and completes only the textual part of the Annex by means of a technical amendment. The Treaty replaces obsolete provisions on the marking of the border, ensuring its visibility and the maintenance of border signs, and also provides for the replacement of border areas which are necessary as a result of the change in the river Ipoly. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Following the entry into force of the Treaty, the construction of a facility for transport, border control or water management purposes and a cross-border pipeline in the area of the state border will be possible without the creation of a separate international agreement. The procedures for expropriation necessary for the exchange of territories and the exchange of instruments for the ratification of the contract have been completed. The announcement may take place. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-142	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-15-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 April 2001, the Hungarian-Slovak Joint Committee on Home Affairs held its 4th session in Bratislava, in which they decided that it was necessary to establish a common state border contract. This is because several provisions of the Treaty governing the designation, visibility and maintenance of border signs signed in Prague on 13 October 1956 have become obsolete. In addition to the replacement of obsolete provisions, two other reasons have justified the creation of a new contract. On the one hand, it was necessary to replace certain border areas, precisely because of the change in the Ipoly border river, and on the other hand to create the conditions for using the land affected by the sewage channel established by the Hungarian municipality of Somoskőújfalu in a cross-border manner, as the State Secretary said. The new treaty, adopted by the Parliament in the summer, regulates, among other things, the types of border signs indicating the state border, the administration related to the state border, the joint monitoring of the designation of the state on a seven-year basis and the assessment of the state border as necessary. Furthermore, the parties agreed to establish a Hungarian-Slovak border committee, which plans, organizes, ensures border work, holds a common border inspection at the state border and defines the content of the border documents. The contract includes six changes and contributes to facilitating the implementation of cross-border developments between Hungary and Slovakia. The contract announced this summer was published in the Hungarian Gazette on 31 July, but the 2018 LI. No documentation of changes to the Hungarian-Slovak state border line was available at the time of the publication of Act No. the full version of the document entitled "the border section 2013', which is now attached to the present submission. Thus, it is necessary to adopt the current bill and the 2018 LI. Repeal of law. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the tabled proposal, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-15-144	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-15-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the proposal before us concerns the recognition of the international treaty or the binding scope of the two parties' contracts, we can support it, even though we have expressed our objections in the debate which had otherwise taken place earlier in the Treaty itself. Our intention to amend back then did not bring any results, but it is very important that this bill is adopted by the Parliament. So, again, I can say that the Jobbik will support this. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-15-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the announced speeches by the lead speaker. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, notary, on behalf of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-15-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Taking advantage of the fact that you are also the author of this item on the agenda, I would just like to point out, in relation to the previous agenda, that Tamás Harangozó could not be here because he had to attend the Board meeting of an important foundation. But I respectfully interpret the answer you've given me. As far as the presentation is concerned, indeed, as has been said by you and by the lead speaker of Fidesz, the state border between Hungary and the Slovak Republic is currently governed by the treaty between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Czechoslovak Republic on the regulation of the state border in Prague on 13 October 1956. Since then, however, more than 60 years have passed, there have been a lot of changes since then, and this justifies the creation of a new treaty for the State border concerned in many respects. He also said here from the Minister of State, the lead speaker of Fidesz, that the contract settles the replacement of the border areas which have become necessary as a result of the current change in the Ipoly border river, and further creates the conditions for the exploitation of the land affected by the sewage channel established by the Hungarian municipality of Somoskőújfalu in a cross-border manner. The Treaty also facilitates the implementation of cross-border developments between Hungary and the Slovak Republic. To achieve this, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the adoption of a bill between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on the publication of the Treaty on State Borders. However, it is worth mentioning the lack of preparation and inaccuracies of international treaties. [[14.40]] After all, the Act announced on 31 July is now required to be amended three months later by the National Assembly, because the full documentation which was part of a contract was not available, but depending on it, or despite it, as I said, the MSZP will support the bill. Thank you.
u2018-11-15-148	Thank you, Mr Sándor Szabó, notary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Károly Kontra indicates his wish to speak to him. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-15-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Members who spoke in the debate for their statements of support. I would ask the honourable groups to support this proposal in the vote as well. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-15-150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, They have the opportunity to submit amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Dániel Z. Kárpát of Jobbik's Group applied for a speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-15-151	Mr President, Dear House, We finally got to the point that thanks to the eviction moratorium, the Hungarian families, who were in a typical impossible situation outside their own fault, may be able to prepare for Christmas a little more calmly and to live the Advent period. I must say that these months can also live as a kind of grace period in that we can make the necessary changes, both in terms of legislative proposals and in terms of humanity, that could make life easier for those affected. Jobbik has put forward a number of corresponding proposals, typically proposals that are free of isms, right- or left-wing thoughts that clearly serve the interests of the injured, the most difficult ones. Last week, we have formulated our proposal for a broad and comprehensive reduction of VAT on basic foods, otherwise not for the first time. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to having a maximum VAT rate of 5 per cent for basic foods, the reduction of the world's champion, record 27 per cent of our VAT rate is necessary only from the point of view that if we look at the map of Europe on the phone, but in order for others to see it, I will, of course, read the most important figures, of course, in Germany, France, Spain, we cannot find much more than 21 per cent of the VAT rate, a general key, 19, 20 per cent and 21 per cent of the above, and 20 per cent, 20 per cent, 20 per cent and 19 per cent of our neighbours. It can be seen that the high VAT rate is perhaps the biggest burden for families living in the most difficult line, as the typical basket of products they buy is typically a basket of 30 products that is extremely sensitive to the VAT rate, and not only the VAT, but also the increase in prices, has recently caused huge disruptions. Just think that the price of eggs increased by 77 percent, the price of different types of vegetables and fruits increased by more than 10 percent or 20 percent, but on a wider scale, for example, the price of bananas and coffee increased by more than 10 percent, while we can see that in some articles, for example, pork legs have increased by more than 10 percent after VAT reductions. I would therefore also consider it important that a properly functioning monitoring system be able to examine whether or not there are real market developments behind the price increase of basic foods, and could, if necessary, intervene in this system without anyone wanting to force national and market developments that cannot or should not otherwise be subject to a command regime. I would also like to tell this House that we want to maintain a moratorium on eviction in a comprehensive package until the foreign exchange credibility problem is resolved. First of all, we would require a partial moratorium on enforcement in order to ensure that, in the months that seem calm, the artificial debt increase of executives is removed, so that it is not possible for a person to face a debt of a million in the next six months, in addition to trying to fulfil his payment obligation. But we cannot go without saying that hundreds of thousands, millions of people live in a situation in Hungary whether they have credit or not, whether it was a foreign currency loan before, whether it was a forint or a different kind of loan, that the purchase of everyday items is a serious challenge for them. On the one hand, the comprehensive VAT reduction would be our solution, which concerns the whole range of basic foods, and on the other hand the creation of a national crisis manager to which any former client, injured person, in difficulty, who suffers from problems or damage, whether it is the replacement of his medicines or the purchase of firewood, should feel free to use a large degree of simplification of the procedure for such emergency aid. We also have to say that the coming months, as I have said, provide an excellent grace period for the House to carry these provisions through, and therefore, as has been done so far, for the credit victims, the bank victims and those on the side of the road, the Jobbik faction will move all means, and will fire in every weapon available, and will fight for these people. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-15-152	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-15-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The appropriate title refers to what has happened recently at the peak of public administration, in the ministry and in the background institutions of the ministry, in the field of health. Because there was a reckoning and reckoning show, immediately after the government was re-established. After all, a completely new minister has been put at the head of the Ministry responsible for this area, and there have been changes in the State Secretaryship and the State Secretarys. This is still okay in itself, because it is the responsibility and responsibility of everyone who governs itself to determine who he is doing this work with, although it could not have been expected that, in terms of success communication and the success of the last eight years in health policy, the process would end in an exchange of ministers and State Secretarys, but this is the world we are living in. It seems that success in the house of Fidesz means that people need to be changed immediately. It is worse, however, and it tells us much more about what happened at the background institutions. You know, these are the bodies, these are the institutions that carry out daily work and government administration in health care. On the one hand, they are institutional supporters, on the other hand they are responsible for a special area or part of it, and they are the best-trained people and the best leaders of the administration. If we go through these institutions, health institutions, we can see that the new Ministry and the new Secretary of State meant for them that one by one and the other, the leaders who, in recent times, have been decapitated, we can argue about what they have achieved, but at least they have achieved that health care has not fallen apart. They are also considered persons who worked in health care, and they were the only ones who held health care together, as opposed to the government, which did not strive to do so. If we look at the most important institutions, including the State Health Services Center, which, apart from the university centers, is responsible for maintaining all hospitals and the brains of everything, there was nothing more than practically total leadership being decapitated from the Director General to the levels below. If we look at the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health, OGYÉI, the same thing happened there in 2016, there was an exchange that was thought to work well and to be a new leader, and quickly the new government also dismissed the leader, and now he stood up with a new leader. It may also be said that they were badly affected by the counterfeiting and contamination of heart medicines, which ringed into the Hungarian health care in the summer, and it seemed that despite the fact that the Hungarian authority communicated that it had acted quickly, unfortunately other Central European countries acted faster than we did on the regulation of products that were harmful to patients. [[14.50]] There's no way to know if it's due to this or just the general government rush after eight years, that the heads were falling here too. But the situation of the National Blood Service is even more spicy, where Zsolt Bayer's wife became the head of the institution. The two leaders, otherwise well-acclaimed in the profession, exchanged each other and served this institution in the previous cycle. The National Blood Service, although it does not seem to be a large institution in this area, is performing a very serious task, since it is an extremely important organ to store blood products for surgeries or for any intervention, to deliver them to the right place, and to provide the whole background at all. Well, it's run by the wife of a member of the Fidesz and of a rather interesting journalist, his server. But we could also go to the example of the SAO, which we now don't even know if it could be called the SAO, the manyth version is what name it will work with and how it will work. Until October, this will be a national public health institution; now they are talking about renaming this area, breaking it into three parts. My fellow Members, why is it important that there are such changes, and what is the problem with that? The fact that when there are changes like this, the normal course of action, the need to ensure that health care stays on its feet, is interrupted. In these cases, the organisation will always focus on itself, focusing on its own internal affairs, its own management issues, rather than solving sensitive and important issues in the sector and in the area. It is also interesting because, after 8 years of governance, one would expect that if this area was successful and that is what the government communicates, such changes would not be necessary. However, it is also harmful that, for example, EU projects, which in many cases help to keep health care on its feet, will be interrupted, the processes needed for successful applications and implementation will be interrupted. And not least, my fellow Members and I close by saying that they cause uncertainty not only for workers in the sector, but also for patients, and this is in the current crisis situation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it does not help the health situation at all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-15-154	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, after the agenda, on which we have not yet spoken. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-15-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, From the district of Debrecen, I would like to read a letter from parents of children with autism spectrum disorder, which has been sent to many people, this will be read in the letter, and by saying it here in the National Assembly, I would just like to emphasise that the voice of these parents should be heard, and that this year, in the year of the families, the government can resolve this problem. It says: We, parents of children with autism spectrum disorder, sought out the Debrecen school district with our problems, namely that our children are not provided with the right high school care. Our letter was posted on April 23, 2018. Our children are students of the autistic class of the Pál Kinizsi Primary School in Debrecen. Over the past years, it has been demonstrated that therapeutic pedagogical support, small-scale classes have provided an appropriate pedagogical environment for the period of primary school studies. In this school, children studied under segregation, but everyday school life is spent with the children of the majority class on holidays, school programs, breaks. During the high school application, we faced and faced the fact that only one institution in the Debrecen High Schools is included in its articles of incorporation, that it can hire autistic students. It is a pleasure to have such a school at least, but knowing the different abilities and needs of our children, we do not consider it possible for our children to have no other choice but to study two professions. In the Debrecen SZC Povolny Ferenc Szakgimnázium, Secondary School and Szakközök School, this is not an institution maintained by a school district, which, in our opinion, does not satisfy the intellectual interest of our children with better abilities. Furthermore, it is a problem in learning the specific professions that requires fine motor skills and manual skills that most of our children do not have. We no longer dare to think about how the autistic children concerned would perform the traineeships that will have to be carried out on the outside. We are aware that solving these problems is not an easy task for our education system. The shortage of professionals, the accepting school environment and the different behavioral disorders of our children have also made us and us parents insecure in traditional education. We don't think it's a solution to the diagnosis of our children. There is no way, because we cannot deceive ourselves or the institutions. In the case of students with integrated autism, more and more often, the status of private students proposed by the institutions does not promote the social development of children, and would mean further isolation of the child. The high school integration of autistic children was undertaken by a high school principal, but after a few weeks, these children became private students, which does not promote social integration. This puts a huge burden on parents who are already in difficulty. Katalin Pappnéi, director of the Debrecen District of Debrecen, said briefly that there really is only the opportunity we mentioned, but we will be informed if there is a change. That's an answer we didn't understand. By the way, the letter was signed by 46 parents, all parents of children in the autistic class of the Primary School of Kinizsi Paul of Debrecen. On 28 May, we then turned to the EMMI, Secretary of State József Bódis, from which we were told that an investigation would be launched in the Debrecen district. The answer is Dr. It was written by László Kiss on June 29th. We waited patiently. On 29 October, the EMMI received final information that the study was closed and the Debrecen school district started preparing for the possibility for our children with autism spectrum disorder to start their studies at a high school in Debrecen in an integrated framework after a successful recruitment process, starting in the 2019/20 school year. According to the preliminary planning, either the Debrecen Csokonai Vitéz Mihály High School or the Tóth Árpád High School will be the chosen institution. This answer could be welcomed, but some problems arise at the same time. 1. Our children study based on autistic-specific local pedagogical program, a local curriculum, which does not match the pedagogical program and curriculum of the majority of children, so the output requirements are different from those of the normal course. 2. Our children are unable to meet the requirements of a high school admission procedure for the above reasons. It even makes it difficult to establish a diagnosis that the intelligence tests of non-autistic children cannot or can only partially measure cognitive functions. 3. We can only call it integration, which will ensure that our children create autism-specific personal and material conditions. However, we are also aware that children with autism spectrum disorder are very difficult to integrate, which is why we consider the practice of the autistic class of the Pál Kinizsi Primary School to be good and to be followed. The parents made the following demands: a small, segmented class, teacher-educated school teacher, medical pedagogical assistant, autism-specific pedagogical program, and to follow the practice of primary school in the course of teaching. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-15-156	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
