u2018-10-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Mr Gyula Molnár, on behalf of the MSZP, he applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "National Waste." Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-10-29-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to the great leader, we can enhance our public speech with Hungarian and international speeches and Parliament's contributions. What I would like to tell you about what happened in the garbage transport case, I don't know how, how, how, how, how, how, how the world seems, that horse is not allowed to ride, but this horse is dead. [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes!]] The most important thing is that, if possible, they do not try to drag it from one side to the other, but it would be the luckiest and the right thing to do is to get it off the road relatively quickly before causing much more trouble. It is admirable and instructive that all this happened on April 1, 2016, that's when this process started, we could say that it was a April prank; it was a bit of a joke if it was meant to be a joke for the Hungarian people, because we are here, and everyone is suffering this national trash that starts out as a joke in April, because I do not want to call it coordination, and I do not want to call it farming in any way. I think that it is very important in politics to have and to have civilised political debates. I do not say that this House has a place and a field in 2018, but I do think that one day a normal world will come when a civilized and normal debate on church, cross-border Hungarians, Europe and various philosophical issues can be held. One thing is necessary for this, beyond the political culture, which is obviously flawed now: that the state and the service work in the meantime, because when public services in a country do not work, it means that there is a problem, it means that there is a war situation. Such a public service is one of the most important, because we know that water, electricity, sewerage, and garbage are the most important, because we know that our daily lives are completely covered. There is no such thing as right-wing or left-wing garbage, there is no such thing as liberal or conservative, there is no such thing as Christian or atheist, European-friendly or non-European-friendly. Where there's garbage, there's no way to live for people, other things happen in that country. We are here, so since April 1, 2016, two and a half years have passed, we are facing a real NER success story, with a real NER success story they managed to build up losses of HUF 20 billion in two years. As we have heard the Minister's press conference, the government info, such a very elegant, perhaps tens of billions more needed on a journalistic issue. We know that a billion HUF software has been ordered for billing, which does not work, everyone can tell stories about it, they could not deliver their accounts in time, the State Audit Office found violations in its management, and in the meantime the recovery was even outsourced for billions of forints. What's going to happen here? Let's think about this for a second and try to get some ideas through. I think it's my age, but there may be older people in the room than me, but the younger ones have never seen anything like it in movies, so far they've only seen it in movies, they've got eyes on the streets, and they've got other public health problems about garbage. Most of my film experiences are linked to this happening in Naples, where they said at the time it was because of the mafia, here in Hungary it is because of the government. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But to finish the sentence, we can also think that perhaps there is no such difference. There was a system here in Hungary that worked more or less, well or worse, obviously we are not in the position to judge. This thing that we have right now, it's definitely not working. My request is for you to think this through, consider it, not on the board, not on disaster control. You don't really think this could be a permanent and permanent solution to this problem, do you? It is therefore clear our position and our proposal to eliminate, eliminate national waste zrt., compensate for damages to entrepreneurs and municipalities, give this task back to local authorities or their associations. That's our proposal, that's what we expect of you. Until that happens, we will continue protesting everywhere, in every form, and our motto is clearly: [[Németh Szilárd István: Work and peace!]] Let's clean up our country. Let's clean up the mess. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-10-29-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out to your five minutes' thought that waste and waste will not remain undelivered, and it seems [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He didn't watch the weekend news: the government took action at the moment when there was a serious problem. Please turn the cards, ask your friends what happened the last weekend behind us. One very important thing, however, is that it should be said, since in 2010 it was considered one of the most important tasks of the government to put an end to that state. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They took the trash properly!]] , in which Hungarian families could be viewed as sources of any unfair extraprofit. What's that supposed to mean? Remember, you were the ones who charged certain services for the eight years that they governed this country, perhaps you could say your activities with a little exaggeration... double or triple. In most cases, if you look at the shipments of waste, the fees here have doubled, say, from a date from 2005 to 2006, within five to six years. Let me tell you something more specific: I am from Nagykanizsa, for example, from 2006 to the reduction of the cost of garbage transport and the cost of shipments of waste have been about doubled. [[Gergely Harvesto: But they took the garbage!]] [[13.10]] This was due to the fact that you didn't care what the service providers in Hungary did or were entrusted to the municipalities, or even didn't do so, they let the service charges be increased freely by the various service providers. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] So if anyone can count on anything in the current government, they're not you, they're not those who are in league with you. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] they are sitting on opposition sides in Parliament. Thus, the reduction of the rent was a very important strategic objective for the current government. We wanted families to live their daily lives with as little financial burden as possible when they have to pay service fees, whether it is electricity, gas or waste. This has happened, as we know, and you can see in your own account how much the rents have decreased by saving tens of thousands of forints for families. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] that there has been a significant reduction in premiums over the past period. However, in order to ensure a predictable operation of a public waste transport service for sustainability, which should be as low as possible for the general public, it was necessary to establish a single non-profit public service system that organises this work. NHKV Zrt. In fact, before its entry, there was no organisation that would have organised, coordinated the various waste companies, or motivated these organisations to make the best use of the potential of waste transport from a business point of view, also on a business basis, as waste represents value, for example, as recycling becomes a sellable commodity. On the other hand, at your time, the quality of service in waste management has been significantly reduced and, at this time, it is developing in line with the EU's objectives, the EU's expectations. In 2015, we introduced mandatory waste collection, and the existing landfills meet the strict EU requirements and the requirements of modernity. According to the latest OECD measurements, the share of waste recovered was reduced to a third by 2015 and the share of recycled waste tripled by 2016. It goes without saying that the development of selective waste collection at this rate and the increase in recycling prices have led to an increase in the operating costs of waste management, which we will and will try and resolve in the next period, with the help of waste management, by selling the value of waste. The competent wallets are working to make this noticeable as soon as possible. Once again, I would like to point out that I started thinking that I would reassure everyone: without waste transport, the government will take action in any case, where it sees a sign of damage to this principle. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-4	Congressman Gergely Arató also applied for a pre-meeting speech on behalf of DK:. Why is the government an enemy of world-class education? You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-5	Dear House, Another chapter of the Tragicomedia has arrived, with which the Orbán government is trying to expand Hungary's most internationally listed university, the Central European University, CEU. Chekhov teaches that if a gun hangs on the wall in the first act of a drama, it must go off in the third act. Similarly, if a government enters into the Higher Education Act that an institution operating an accredited training abroad has to conclude an international contract, it does so because it does not want to conclude this international contract. It is clear, therefore, that the aim was to remove the CEU from Hungary from the beginning. It is true that Viktor Orbán still has a month to sign the agreement between Hungary and the State of New York on the operation of the CEU in Hungary, which, according to the information, the governor of the State of New York is able and willing to sign at any time, but apparently the government has no intention of complying with his own law. In other cases, it is easy to accept these international treaties, and we are also discussing them continuously here in the House, but CEU is not willing to conclude an international treaty on the CEU case. Why? It's not hard to figure out the answer. You hate everything that's against your conservative, fundamentalist, averted, past, freedom-limiting and social differences. The purpose of CEU's training is to ensure that the CEU represents the freedom of learning, critical thinking, honest confrontation with social problems and the open values of the Western world. That's what you won't tolerate. They will not tolerate it, because their power is based on lies and deception, because it does not rely on open debates, but on revelations and propaganda. You are afraid of knowledge, freedom of opinion and thought. If most of the training of CEU is expelled from Pest, then the loser will not be CEU happy to accept them in Vienna. The losers will be Hungarian students, Hungarian higher education, Budapest and the country. Students who wish to receive world-class training at CEU in Budapest will lose because one fifth of CEU's students are still Hungarian. They will now be able to go to Vienna against other young Hungarians who want more opportunities, more freedom, more open thinking and a more open world. And, of course, the introduction of the Corvinus model, paying higher education, will further increase this flow. Hungarian higher education is losing. According to a report prepared by the Hungarian Rectors' Conference, CEU is leading the domestic ranking of international publications per teacher and is also at the forefront of EU training grants. His professional contacts and library have already helped other Hungarian higher education institutions. And, of course, Budapest loses, the country loses. It loses the considerable revenue that the CEU has brought, but it loses even more prestige and prestige. You have been warned by the American ambassador, you have been warned by your own party, the leader of the Group of the European People's Party, but you don't give a damn about this, no matter what your image of Hungary is created by this arbitrary procedure. The problem with CEU is also confirmed by the fact that while in the case of CEU the government renounces income from foreign educators and students, while the government spends a lot on students from Asia, developing countries, in the spirit of Eastern opening. [[13.20]] There it does not matter that the Hungarian state provides three times the cost to a student of this kind. There is no money to seek the favors of dictators, but of course it is important not to have a calm, open education here. For the sake of my particularly concerned fellow Members of the Fidesz community, I would add that these are, by the way, mostly Islamic countries. We still have a month to stop them from doing irreparable damage to the country again. You can do so by complying with your own law, but I have an even better proposal: the Democratic Coalition already tabled a legislative amendment in September, which eliminates this completely unnecessary and absurd procedure. We will ask for a vote on it, and you here in Parliament will have the opportunity to put an end to this injustice. Ms Judit Varga, State Secretary for EU Relations, said that the CEU can go wherever it wants on the basis of freedom of education. I have a much better proposal, which is much better for Hungarian students, Hungarian higher education and Hungary: take your freedom and go away, stay with CEU! You guys get as far away as you can. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-10-29-6	In order to respond, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-29-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You were so caught up in your own speech, honourable Member, you were so drunk with your own words that you ended up speaking honestly. [[Gergely Harvestó: In the beginning!]] You want a Hungary where we, the representatives of the Hungarian nation, and those who think in a national way do not exist, do not exist. You told us to leave this country, our own country. [[Gergely Harvesto: I told the government to leave!]] , and similar to CEU...
u2018-10-29-8	Congressman, moderate yourself, please.
u2018-10-29-9	... and people with a similar mind to CEU should be here in Hungary, obviously selected as possible, as well as the different students of CEU, the Soros University from all over the world. The point has come out of the bag, honourable Member: you would like a Hungary where there is no national thinking, where research into Hungarian history is not dealt with, only and only the globalism you promote and paid by György Soros would have an existing 93,000 square kilometers of location in Hungary. On the other hand, on behalf of all Hungarian university citizens, I strongly reject the fact that you are an equal sign between the quality of Hungarian higher education and the CEU. You talked about the world-class or non-world-class Hungarian education, and spoke only and exclusively about the Soros University. For you, no other university is important for the world class of Hungarian higher education. However, if you look at the different rankings of Hungarian universities, you might find the world class not in CEU, but in other universities. Academic Ranking of World Universities, there are five Hungarian universities: Eötvös Loránd University, University of Szeged, Semmelweis University, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, University of Debrecen. The rankings of the Times Higher Education include seven Hungarian universities: Semmelweis University, Eötvös Loránd University, University of Pécs, University of Szeged, Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Corvinus University and University of Debrecen. Or if I look at another world ranking QS, there are six Hungarian universities: the University of Szeged, the University of Debrecen, the University of Eötvös Loránd, the University of Pécs, the Budapest University of Technology and Economics and the Corvinus University of Budapest. And you don't think they're world-class! For you, it is not a guarantee of the world-class operation of Hungarian higher education that teachers, researchers and students reach world standards in Hungarian state universities. The only thing that matters to you is that you see only one thing: whether the University of György Soros can operate with privileges in Hungary or not; that ideology from there, breaking all the rules of law, you know whether or not to distribute it to academic level. And if you don't have it, you will wipe out the performance of tens of thousands of teachers and hundreds of thousands of students in Hungary. The performance of these Hungarian people doesn't matter to you. The operation of the American-based university in Hungary is the only thing that matters. This is a kind of colonial logic, only from the bottom up, honourable Member, when you volunteer to be the governor of a country governed by another country, and also in the Hungarian Parliament, you talk about the fact that the performance of Hungarian people does not exist in your eyes, only the performance created at the University of America, or even the performance of subpoenas. In addition, a political bluff, a campaign like this, is being carried forward here in Parliament. Because if you walk past the various educational buildings of the Central European University as an accredited university under Hungarian law and walk into them in a few months' time, you will see teachers, students who teach there, and those who study there. Now, of course, it is possible to turn this into a political campaign, to trigger a wave of international protests once again, and to try to discredit Hungary, but, honourable Member, everyone will see that what is going to change is that, on an unreal basis, as it has been for years, there is no way to issue an American diploma in Hungary, but the training will continue. And it is outrageous that you identify the freedom of science with the Soros CEU; whether freedom of speech and other freedoms prevail, the only thing that comes to your mind is that it is not the standard of the rule of law in your eyes that commemorators are swordsmen on the streets of Budapest on 23 October, who remember peacefully, only and only whether George Soros' university has privileges in Hungarian higher education or not. The Parliament has also negotiated agreements with four higher education institutions that wanted to comply with Hungarian legislation, which did not start by wanting to rewrite and shape Hungarian legislation for their own needs, but wanted to comply with it. There's no problem with either one of them. This is because they wanted to make political capital out of it, and György Soros and his network used the whole CEU case to conduct a campaign against Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-10	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're in the 24th hour! Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, member of the LMP, submitted a speech before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is now broad agreement that climate change worldwide is a dramatic process affecting the near future of mankind, which has not yet been contained in the absence of sufficient political will. According to the UN IPCC report, we have a decade or two left to keep global warming below critical degrees and a half Celsius. A key issue is the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. However, we see the opposite both at home and abroad. According to the International Energy Agency's data, emissions are back to record in 2018. The European Environment Agency also warns that we cannot continue the lifestyle, the social and economic policy that has led to this. The operation of the European Union and some of its policies also have serious critical comments from the LMP. However, we can only welcome what the European Union wants to do to curb climate change. It is only possible to support the EU's ambition to lead the world in setting and implementing strict climate targets. And we can also support the desire to increase car-related CO2 emissions by 2030, as transport is responsible for about a third of total CO2 emissions and a significant proportion of air pollution. Ladies and gentlemen, It is unacceptable for us that the government is lobbying in Brussels not for the interests and health of the Hungarian people, but for the interests of the Bavarian automotive industry, and at home it considers it more important to serve car manufacturers than clean air. It does not explain that the Hungarian economy depends on the performance of the automotive industry, because this is a big mistake. Not only from an environmental point of view, but also from the point of view of economic stability, many standing. But let's get back to the issues of climate change. Our CO2 emissions in Hungary have increased by almost 6 percent annually since 2015. The national strategy for climate change, which we are discussing in these weeks, has been submitted by the government as it is now outdated, since it has been counting on the trend when our CO2 emissions have decreased, while the reality is that it is increasing. As if the government did not want to acknowledge that Hungary is one of the most sensitive and vulnerable countries in Europe in terms of expected impacts. In Hungary, as a result of accelerating warming, the summer medium temperature is already 2 degrees Celsius higher than the average of the last 30 years of the last century, which could double by the end of this century. Summers can be even more dry, and larger areas can be hit by drought, while increasing floods and rainstorms can be expected. As a result of the increasing premature death due to heat waves, or even a 30 percent reduction in the average crop, the destruction of our forests, forest fires, the decline of our water resources, the mass spread of new human, animal and plant pathogens. Extraordinary weather events do not spare infrastructure. [[13.30]] On this basis, I am also asking my fellow Members not to vote for NÉS in its current form. Let us give it back to the government for recasting, a new, real situation and a sustainable basis to guide sectoral strategies. The strategy should be coherent and ambitious, with specific objectives to be achieved, with deadlines, with those responsible, and also include the guarantee elements of the organisational and financial conditions necessary for its implementation and for its accountability. Ladies and gentlemen, The government should finally consider the extent to which its political decisions reduce the chances of responding to the greatest threat of our time, climate change. In this fight, we can only stand on one side: we must choose to be sustainable, cooperating with nature, people and other societies. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-29-12	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fight against the negative effects of climate change has become an increasingly pressing issue for the government in recent years, and we have already discussed this with you in Parliament two or three times. We are aware that the Carpathian Basin is likely to be more exposed to climate change than the average of the planet due to its location and geographical conditions. I note that the impact of human activity on climate change is still under discussion. Although our country accounts for far less than 1 percent of our Earth's emissions, and I say it wrongly, it is responsible for a little more than 1 percent, we know that it is necessary to be out of control in order to leave a suitable living space for the future generation, because climate change does not stop at national borders. The government is aware that global problems can and must be dealt with by local means, and must be combated. This is why Hungary was the first of the European Union countries to ratify the Paris Agreement as early as 2016, and therefore, in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, we have updated the objectives and commitments of the Second National Climate Change Strategy. It is precisely this clear government commitment to climate objectives that makes me incomprehensible to the opposition and attacks of the Member woman against the objectives and instruments of the strategy. First of all, I think it is important to point out that this strategy is timely and comprehensive in all aspects. It also addresses short-, medium- and long-term tasks, balancing the role of adaptation with mitigation compared to the previous strategy, and, just to mention one of the most important ones, it is particularly concerned with the climate education of the future generation. However, it is worth noting that before the specific measures are missed that the strategy is designed to define the short, medium and long term objectives mentioned above. Specific measures, with concrete responsibilities and financial resources, will be included in the climate action plan to be prepared within 6 months of adoption and for a period of three years. The strategic objective and instrument system also allows us to devote EU financial resources to this. An important element of this is the establishment of county climate platforms within the framework of the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, as well as county and local climate change strategies, which include local adaptation programmes. There are many examples, honourable Member, that settlements enter a climate alliance, form joint ideas, plans and take measures that are consistent with the objectives and visions of this strategy. These ideas are to be implemented through domestic resources, own resources or even European resources. Examples are KEOP applications that try to harness solar energy or try to reduce energy use by thermal insulation of institutions. In addition, projects are expected to be worth several hundred billion forints between 2021 and 2030 within the framework of emission trading schemes, the proper selection of which can significantly contribute to the development of the domestic energy system, its conversion to carbon neutral and clean energy. On this basis, and in the light of the document on which further action is being taken before us, I believe that to mention inadequacy in the context of the Second National Climate Change Strategy is to start and attack consensus and consistency in such a clearly common national objective for party policy purposes. I would rather ask you to focus on working together in the next period, on efforts to achieve common goals, and not to speak irresponsiblely as if nothing were to happen in this matter in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-14	As a representative of Jobbik, Mr.Dániel Z. Karpát also applied for a speech before the agenda:.. Why does the Government live up to the future? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-10-29-15	Mr President, Dear House, At a time when in less than two days the Government of Hungary withdraws some HUF 70 billion of state aid from the Hungarian future, from the future of Hungarian young people, middle-aged people and older people, it is very difficult to find words. Especially when the government is doing all of this with the justification that it will transfer these amounts into the CSOK system, and through the CSOK system, it is trying to reach those who, by the way, have just been excluded from the forms of support and have already been excluded. I have to tell you, if we look at who the state aid for housing savings has achieved and who will not be reached in the future, thanks to the barbaric intervention of the government, then we see that the singles, the single children, the elderly, or, let us say, the residents of the condominiums are both left out. So this government excludes complete, hundreds of thousands of social groups from the planning of the future. It does this without reason, doing so by making available budgetary resources and being available to support stakeholders. I also have to say that if we look at the reasons for what might be behind it, we do not have to go far: the NOK Rogán Antal, so the housing lottery system, which has failed spectacularly, has not actually started, did demand a market for itself, and it is likely that through a kind of lobbying force, the competitor had to be forced out, destroyed, smashed into the ground. We also have to say that it is funny in itself to open the field to former organisers of the fortunately banned consumer groups in order to be able to play a pilot game with Hungarian people's deposits at the home lotteries address, instead of the forms of housing savings so far. I would also like to tell you that, according to some statements, about 80-90 percent of the condos used some kind of housing savings scheme, almost all renovations with a measurable amount of money were paid from LTP. In four to five years, there will be very serious, brutal signs on the market that even mandatory renovations and compulsory investments will be missed because the state foot, the state aid, is significantly lacking behind all of this. I also have to say that the singles, the one-child educators, the elderly or the tenants of the condominium do not provide any construction for the government of Hungary instead of the one that has been abolished in two days. I am in favour of broadening the range of users of the CSOK. We also support extending this option to the full range of renovations or to the full range of energy modernisations, where appropriate, in addition to enlargements. However, this did not happen in Hungary, and I have to say that what they want to do now in CSOK is being consumed by state aid, under the heading state foot, by building materials prices, the increase in labour prices and the amazing and incomprehensible reduction of the VAT on newly built apartments. So it can be said that misguided government measures on the housing front consume all the preferential forms so far and eliminate all the benefits that have been paid so far. They tell young Hungarians and active people that they are more spacious abroad, because you can't save yourself money here for an apartment or for an independent property. [[13.40]] And they say that, in the case of the desired, planned childbearing will be delayed or delayed, because they make it impossible, they will not make possible the necessary enlargements, the acquisition of new properties, new habitats, which have so far been possible, even in a difficult way, but somehow in a 10- to 15-year perspective. The fact is that there is a painful lack of a public housing and home-building program, and if we look at the government's reasons for leading out the state foot of pre-saving, we simply do not understand the answers. More precisely, we understand very well, but by 2018, the public expenditure to be reported has already been almost doubled. Thus, the activity of the housing savings banks has improved the net position of the budget even in terms of GDP. Therefore, it is quite certain that this form of support should not have been abolished because it would have been so bad for the Hungarian economy. And if you are talking about not wanting to support the Hungarian banks, then, yes, break the pact with the EBRD, make sure that the Hungarian banks do not beat down the transaction fee, the banking sector special tax on customers, because you have entered into a pact on this, and the funds that will be released, yes, use it for a public-based rental program. But what they are about to do under the heading of the CSOK is beneficial to the more fortunate social groups and classes, and basically to the banks for the benefit that the Hungarian people should receive in a direct way. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-10-29-16	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His speech reminds me of the saying that the nail came out of the bag, and I even increased it: the right angle came out of the bag again. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Fantastic!]] I'm saying this because if you think about Jobbik's policy so far, you're going to have to be a radical party, a cute couple. [[Magyar Zoltán: How is that relevant? Is that Fidesz?]] From a right-wing party, a right-wing national conservative party, they want to make a left-wing, liberal-minded party with the support of György Soros. Their cooperation with LMP proves this in its entirety. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Doctor! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-29-18	Patience, gentlemen, patience.
u2018-10-29-19	If I think about it, I have to say that your speech is not surprising. Your speech is nothing but to support the banking system. [[It's a rush from Jobbik's ranks. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Stop it!]] We support financial investors and give them the extra profit they have produced so far from the housing savings bank system. The Jobbik said that the pro-government is the bank's supporters, and he was violently attacking the government. Now he stands up and tells us to reinstate the old housing savings bank system, which, by the way, supports the financial system, the banking system. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault that you don't understand!]] Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll prove to you why. Because the housing savings bank system is dominated by four organisations, one of which is Fundamenta, which owns 76 percent of German financial investors [[István Szávay: Not the Lawrence!]] a German banking system, a system developed by bankers. The other 24 percent are true, the Generali Insurance Company and UniCredit Bank and Sberbank are Hungarian-owned [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Putin will not commend you!]] Owned by Hungarian banks and organizations, i.e. one quarter. But one thing is certain, the banks own Fundamenta, which controls half of the housing savings system. The other half is essentially owned by OTP, Erste Bank and Egon. But let's see what this German majority-owned bank is doing with the Hungarian people's money! Here's what the Fundamenta does: collects the money, puts 30 percent of the money on the side of the state, and then spends this money on lending. It's a loan. Reaching interest gains from lending [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Should He Work With Loss?]] quite a serious amount, for example 6 billion forints in 2017, but it does not return this money to investors, and it does not even give them a forint back. The Hungarian investors, who put in 70% of their savings, the state adds 30%, at the very end, this is exactly what they get back. The money that is saved for years and should bring them profits and returns is not for them, but for the German financial banking people and Hungarian banking people who are supported by you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You signed a pact!]]
u2018-10-29-20	Congressman, you've already told me what you have to say. Please listen to the Secretary of State. Please listen to me quietly.
u2018-10-29-21	It's the same. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: It takes self - control!]] This is also the case for the other three banking participants, 60 billion extra-profits have been produced in recent years, and 30 billion out of 60 billion have been paid as dividends by the schemes you support. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Stop this supported by the self!]] Now, your speech was nothing but to restore the housing savings system. You are initiating a referendum on this issue. You personally submitted a bill to leave this system, maintain it, and basically destroy the Hungarian people. You are doing nothing but giving profits to a banking system, financial investors, a return that the Hungarian state supports by 30%, which is not effective and does not serve the interests of Hungarian savers. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What serves you?]] I think that there is a more effective system, a significantly more effective system, the CSOK system, which is being used by about 90 thousand people at the moment, and has consumed some HUF 250 billion of state aid. This system needs to be further developed, and the government is also developing it, as it extends to two children, and this is the solution to the problem, not what you say. Thank you. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It is a shame to lie like this! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-22	Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech on current matters! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I would like to talk about current affairs, namely the upcoming austerity package of Viktor Orbán, the new Orbán package, which is povertying Hungarian families. We are well aware that during the last eight years, Fidesz's government has had several austerity measures, reducing unemployment benefits from 9 to 3 months, reducing the disabled, giving public workers an allowance of HUF 50,000 instead of a minimum wage, or abolishing tens of thousands of housing allowances. Of course, Viktor Orbán never used tactically to call them austerity, it was a forbidden word in government circles, but now the government is forced to confess, because this new austerity package will only be seen by the blind. Orbán needs these new austerity packages, as we need to fill the mouths of the Fidesz, increasingly greedy NER riders. With Lajos Simicska, Viktor Orbán was only able to deal with it, but the new generation of fidesz thieves had already slipped out of his hands. Viktor Orbán can no longer control their unbridled hunger for money. Lőrincek Mészáros, Antalok Rogán, Tímeák Vajna, István Tiborcz will suffer again because of the unscrupulousness of the Hungarian people, and since everything has been taken from the poorest, now comes the middle class. Let's take a look at the new restrictive elements of the Orbán package. One of these austerity measures that has already taken place is the abolition of cafeteria. The cafeteria helped just those, a little extra, whose salary hasn't been raised in years. Then, as another restriction on the Orbán package, the removal of the housing register comes. It's a complete scam to move the money to the CSOK, and besides, the housing register wasn't used primarily by those who wanted to buy a new apartment, but by those who, let's say, haven't been able to paint their panel apartments for ten years. They will also take this opportunity away from them in the future. They'll kick the poor again to help the wealthy. The Orbán package is also tightened by the dismissal of public sector workers. Only this year, we know that they want to put more than 9,000 people on the street, and next year, this number can continue to grow. The worst slip is that the money to be saved will be distributed to the remaining employees. The basic salary has not been raised in more than ten years, the salaries of these people should have been increased by a long time ago, and workers are being turned against workers again. Orbán is therefore again punishing the working people with austerity instead of saving money on his friends or, for example, on the State Secretarys. For the purposes of the Government, 66 State Secretarys and 117 Deputy State Secretarys are working. Thus, not only theft, but also the Orbán government managed to set another record. However, Viktor Orbán is carrying out one of the most painful restrictions on our future in education, only to ensure that Hungarian young people work as modern slaves in the factories of foreign companies lured here with huge tax preferences and subsidies, instead of becoming successful entrepreneurs, engineers, economists or teachers. [[13.50]] By making higher education pay, transforming the Corvinus University into a fidesz private university, drastically extracting funds from public education, teachers still save their miserable wages for their own purposes. But even worse: the most dangerous restriction of the Orbán government is the planned privateisation of health care. The law package in the gutter states that public health will finance private suppliers, where, of course, the NER riders have bought themselves a long time ago. Just so we understand, with the new austerity, Viktor Orbán officially creates poor hospitals, while private hospitals will be happy to operate out of public funds, and they will take the tens and hundreds of thousands from people, of course, only from the few who will be able to pay for this. Taking Kafeteria and housing funds, dismissals in the public sector, privatization of education and health is this new stealth Orbán package. And all this for what? In order to give Orbán Rachel another watch of HUF 12 million, so that Tímea Vajna can fly her cat more privately, or that Lőrinc Mészáros does not earn HUF 11 million per hour, but 15 million per hour. Orbán is lying and silent about restrictions. He hopes that people are blind and that they won't understand what this is all about. The Dialogue, on the other hand, will work to prevent these restrictions, because until nothing else matters to Viktor Orbán and the NER knights but theft, money and power, solidarity and humanity for us, and we in the Dialogue will fight to the end. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-29-24	Balázs Orbán, please.
u2018-10-29-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First, I would like to make it clear to the opposition representatives and ladies that, although an individual named Orbán responds on behalf of the government, this is not the Orbán that you think of every such time, so I would like this mistake not to be made next. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I only thought that I would make this clear here at the beginning of the speech, because there are several Orbán surnames in the Hungarian Parliament. As for the speech by Congresswoman, I know only one thing: the machine cannon fire, the actually ideological field and the unthinkable machine gunfire that you and you have thrown at us, and I know in one way or another that if I try to put together what this has to say, all these, all these measures, conflicting things. One day, he's going after the housing fund case, and then he's going at it from the other side. So this opposition machine cannon fire that we've just heard in five minutes, there's only one way I can do that ideologically. You are in favour of economic policy, social policy and cultural policy, which is not based on performance, but against performance. Indeed, this is a serious and clear philosophical difference, and it is perfectly understandable why so many Members are sitting in the pro-government benches and why so many Members are sitting in your party. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] But, by the way, it is perfectly understandable that you would like to bring back the system before 2010 with the MSZP, together with your ally, which is exactly the same philosophy. This is precisely why, when the global economic crisis in 2007-2008 was not even the first in Hungary, while Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the global economic crisis would not have been the first in Hungary even later, but it was not in 2006-2007-2008, even with the policy that the MSZP, your ally, and obviously you have carried on, you have taken out the performance. [[Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó intervene.]] After all, they started on a common list, so I think that in politics it has a strong symbolism. So in fact, in 2006-2007-2008, while the other Central and Eastern European economies of V4 were raging, the Hungarian economy collapsed, and therefore the financial crisis also hit it much more. So the social, economic, political, cultural system you built before 2010 and based on the total denial of performance is what shot the country in the leg when the V4 partners were still soaring, and they were able to achieve convergence compared to Western European countries. And when the crisis hit, it was proven, not only that this is a socially sensitive system, Congresswoman, but on the contrary, because it is based on a lack of performance rather than on performance, and therefore its resistance to crisis is far less than that system. [[Szabó Timea: Higher education? Health?]] On the other hand, after 2010, it is true that we think differently, because we think that if there is economic performance, if there is good macroeconomic indicators, if the public budget is okay, if public debt is reduced, if inflation figures are low, unemployment is low, economic growth is above 4 percent, then there is performance behind the country, it is good for everyone, but also through this the government can support the vulnerable social groups that you mentioned much better. Let me give you some data on this: 4.8 percent economic data in the second quarter, 4.4 percent GDP growth, 73% government debt decline, 3 percent government deficit, 36 percent increase in real wages, only 13 percent increase in real wages in 2017. Congresswoman, I would like to mention to you that the minimum wage today is 88 percent higher than in 2010. This is exactly the vulnerable social group you refer to all the time, but we cannot help these groups if economic performance is not behind the country. And you are proposing a policy with the introduction of a basic income and with all the tools that you have listed here that will take out performance. [[Szabó Timea: Answer the privatisation of health care!]] Yes, the way we can put hundreds of billions more resources into health and education is that it is a performance-based economic policy, the performance of the Hungarian people, that creates the preconditions for this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I'm asking you to reconsider your ideas about this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-26	Dear House, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP faction, address of the speech before the agenda:. The protection of families is a national matter. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-27	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The protection of families is indeed a national matter. On this issue, too, we must remove the party's political sarcasm and try to give a united answer to this question, preferably the answer that the Hungarian people will give. If we look at the history of Hungarian family politics, then we should see that this is a 100-year-old story that began in 1912. At first, there were events that helped families with virtually employment policy, home creation and similar public health issues, but even after the war, the introduction of ged and ged was a positive stimulus measure. However, there was a big halt, and this is the Bokros package, when they made family policy a poor policy. The system was restored in 98, but a halt occurred again in 2005, when the tax relief was practically abolished. Why is that important? Because the position of the profession is that continuity, the creation of security, predictability is the most important thing in family policy. And if we can give you that, then we have a concrete result, just like it's already unfolding. Let me mention some concrete measures from 2010, which were important for rebuilding family policy measures. We know that there will be HUF 2000 billion in family support next year, which has doubled. A million families get a tax benefit. I consider it very important to introduce the ged extra and the generous home creation programme. I also have to say a concrete result, which already means the demographic situation: 1.25 fertility indicators have increased to 1.5, so these measures have had an impact. However, we need to ask ourselves here why this is not clearly seen in stopping the decline in the population. [[14.00]] If you look at the chorus, it becomes clear, because every year more than 25,000 women with parental potential have left the system for the last time, and it is understandable that this has not yet been replaced by an increase in the total fertility rate. That is why we must do everything we can to introduce family support elements that will further improve this number, so that society can reproduce itself. If we look at the question that justifies my speech today, the question of national consultation, then we should see that steps are being taken in two areas to meet the needs, more precisely, to which the Hungarian people will answer. One is support for young people at the start of their family formation. We all know that it is not enough to support the issuing family and the family support elements so far, but we need to strengthen it here, just as the employment of women with double burdens who have children is a question that we need to ask. Allow us, and I hope, for all of us, to have a family in itself, this value can be summarized in a word or a sentence in a way that large families have formulated: to live in a family is good. When a young man and woman find each other, feel the experience of unreserved dedication and unconditional acceptance, they can receive the miracle of a new life, which they experience not only in fetal development but also in birth, and the joy of raising children, which is greater than the sacrifice, they can find. I wish for young Hungarians [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To feel this experience and to feel the nation's growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-28	The answer is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Today, Europe has become a continent of empty cradles. Europe has many things: historical heritage, political strength, economic strength, economic innovation, there is only one thing missing: children, growing families. Therefore, many in Europe believe that if there are other conditions, only children are missing, young people need to be brought into Europe from somewhere else, and that instead of European children, I would replace a large part of Europe's population with young people from Africa. So far, the Hungarian people have said on various occasions, either at national consultations, in referendums or in other forums, that they would not choose this path on the basis of strong nation-consciousness, but would strengthen the Hungarian families, and in the year of the families, we would ask the Hungarian voters, the Hungarian people, for a kind of feedback or for a future instruction on how the Hungarian government should proceed on this path. 2018 is the year of families, so it is twofold justified that this year we ask the Hungarian people's opinion in the form of a national consultation on what the government should do to protect families. This is certainly important, because other countries in Europe want to rely on external resources, invite the children of other continents to Europe, thus endangering not only the identity of the continent but also its security and future, as long as we see the future in the reinforcement of Hungarian families, in support of families raising children. An important aspect is how to support young couples, whether they need to be given additional support by the state. You know, as you know, that the newlyweds can already benefit from a tax benefit of HUF 5 000 for several years, and many have already participated in this, and it was a total of 50,000 couples who had this state wedding gift. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This 120,000 forints state wedding gift has already been used. But whether we need to support young couples in other ways, even because we know that if someone has previously taken on their first child, then there is a greater chance that they will have more siblings, and Hungarian couples usually plan one more child than they will eventually take on. The state must help us overcome the obstacles between plans and reality. It is also important that the instruments for further support for childbearing be presented to Parliament in the form of a government bill, and what additional means we may be able to help women to work. If we also look at in the budget laws what different governments spent to support families, we can see that while there was no HUF 1000 billion in the last budget submitted by socialist governments in 2010, the budget already adopted next year includes more than HUF 2000 billion in support of Hungarian families. Between 2011 and 2018 Hungarian families had to save HUF 1900 billion, tax of HUF 1900 billion and HUF 1900 billion in contributions to families in total. These funds could be used to raise children, for the purposes of the family, and they did not have to be paid into the central budget. We have calculated in the budget that next year alone, in 2019, the tax and contribution allowances for families will amount to HUF 360 billion, and that is the amount of money left for families raising and working with children. Today, there are 130 thousand families in Hungary that pay neither taxes nor contributions, because they leave the costs of raising children in the form of tax or tax reductions or remissions, so they have no tax obligations on their income, they spend all their income on raising the child to the last fillers, they don't pay taxes or contributions, because they don't need it, and the monthly amount of the family tax allowance for two children increases to HUF 40,000 in 2019, this affects 350 thousand families with two children positively. It is also important that the child is already three years old; the faction leader also mentioned the ged extra, which helped to work alongside child-rearing grants on the one hand; it helped those who had children within a short period of time, or had twins, or who had children immediately after their higher education studies. This is why, while 200 parents had an average of 125 children in 2010, now 200 parents have 150 children in Hungary, the childbearing rate is 20 percent higher, but we can see that new measures are likely to be needed to raise this to the desired level above 200. It is also helpful that families' home-building benefits will be expanded in these months, starting next year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] can be used much more widely by the two children and the three children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-30	Before the last agenda today, Mr Zsolt Németh, a member of the Fidesz will make his contribution: on current issues. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-31	Mr President, Dear House, On October 16, Márta Demeter, co-president of the LMP, asked the Minister for Defence and Home Affairs with written questions after he learned during a file inspection that a passenger who had been on a military flight from Cyprus had also been on a flight, who, according to his name, Orbán thought was the Prime Minister's daughter. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] This news has appeared in several places in the press. Origo wrote it on Tuesday, then HM confirmed that the little girl was not the daughter of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, but the child of a Hungarian soldier serving in Cyprus with the last name Orbán. As Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, has already reported, HM and the defence always comply with its legal obligation, making the requested data available to all elected Members of Parliament as quickly as possible. That's how they dealt with Márta Demeter. In short, my fellow Members, the LMP representative published information on a UN mission in Cyprus on low-level political motivation. As a reminder, the secret data we have learned cannot be disclosed for 30 years. Márta Demeter took note of this, but he violated all the laws. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]] which relates to access to the file. In addition, he not only made the data public but also forged them by linking them to the Prime Minister. [[György Balla: That's right!]] Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence Commission, initiated a review of Márta Demeter's national security review at the Speaker's office. The Defence Committee is a national security sensitive body, learning about a number of data that is not public, restricted or classified. [[14.10]] A person who, in violation of his oath, discloses non-public information for political reasons is a national security risk. If the Member does not leave himself, the LMP shall be called back from the chair of the Vice-President of the Police Committee or from a number of its members. Márta Demeter is also a delegated member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, so he has obviously become unfit for this mandate by his recent actions. [[György Balla: That's right!]] Hungary should be represented by people who are aware of the gravity of the area and information. It is further necessary to review whether the Member may take part in this work. In the light of all this, we will initiate the President of the Parliament to review the mandate of Márta Demeter and, where appropriate, delegate another member to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. This, of course, does not affect the positions of the LMP faction, the party has the opportunity to designate someone else to the delegation, the Vice-President of the Commission, who must also, of course, undergo due diligence. As all Members, you can, of course, attend an open meeting of the Defence and Police Committee as a guest, but in the future you will only be able to get information on which the status of general representatives gives you the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, With prejudice to Fidesz, let me quote the Hungarian Orange in relation to the assessment of the situation. There are two possible readings to this situation. Márta Demeter did indeed see these papers, and at best he was not only hurtfully superficial but also hurtfully irresponsible, while in the worst case he was consciously lying. He also issued the certificate of his own intellectual ability, for it seems that he was unable to assess that such an obvious lie could be exposed in no time. The question is, is it possible that Marta Demeter is so stupid? The Hungarian Orange is written by the Hungarian Orange. [[An uproar in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Interventions from Jobbik's ranks: Mr President, don't do that. Shame on you.]] According to the other reading, [[Noise.]] [[Noise.]] according to the other reading, Márta Demeter was badly led, and she ran without due care to the thin ice, voluntarily and singing. I am not responsible for the style either, let me stress that this is the Hungarian Orange (Noise) Which I've just quoted, but it's true. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I also see that these are two readings of the situation. Finally, let's not forget that it's been almost two weeks, and Márta Demeter hasn't apologized to the captain's family. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or the Prime Minister, from the family of a fellow politician. It's very unfortunate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-32	Now, please, Mr. Secretary of State, sit down. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask for your patience for a moment. Have a seat. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. And I'm asking you to moderate yourselves once again as much as you can. Now, first of all, Martha Demeter asked for a word of personal concern, if I understand correctly, which I must now accept or not allow. If I didn't allow it, there would be a raise-up vote in the House. I must honestly admit that until the congressman quoted the ominous sign of the Hungarian Orange, which was in the camp of the Champions of the Freedom of the Press. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Until then, I was also uncertain whether it was justified to speak to the woman representing the personal concern. Thank you for making it easier for me on the one hand, because from here on out, I think I have no choice but to give the floor to a Member. On the other hand, I would like to ask that, in the future, we do not set a precedent for bringing here presentations from the press that is below the level of debate in this House, because this further deepens the quality of the functioning of this otherwise honorable House and also undermines its moral respect. So I would ask my fellow Members not to follow Mr Zsolt Németh's procedure, which is otherwise justified and which is not objectionable under house rules. So I don't want that to be a precedent. This, in turn, moves me to give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. The House Rules thus provide that a decision must be taken after the speech has been made. Here you go, Congresswoman. You'll have the floor in two minutes.
u2018-10-29-33	Well, that's very kind of you, Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-34	It wasn't kindness!
u2018-10-29-35	This is a great disappointment to me, I must say, from the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, because you, with exactly the diplomatic experience you have, can be incredibly humiliating to read to you, by the way. I would like to remind you how many times you have issued information to the press about a closed committee meeting, both from the opposition and from the ruling party. I would like to draw your attention to the great deal to be done, for example, in relation to the case of Szilárd Kiss, who could be appointed agrarian attaché by failing two times at national security control... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is not a personal concern!]]
u2018-10-29-36	Congresswoman, I'm asking you to limit yourself to the question of personal assault, or I'll take the floor from you.
u2018-10-29-37	He then issued tens of thousands of visas to criminals. I hope that the Ministry of Defence will be held accountable for the fact that it was solely the Ministry, which provided any information about a person and his family allegedly belonging to his staff to the public, otherwise without any reason. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] If you know so well what the risk is and what the risk is, let me tell you that you do not yet decide who constitutes a national security risk, and you do not decide what kind of work anyone can do in Parliament. I can see that you are in terrible pain with all the questions you have received in recent years, including with Szilárd Kiss. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Do you have a personal interest in Szilárd Kiss?]] But in the same way, Ghaith Pharaon, who was wanted for terrorist financing, was admitted to Hungary without any problems by the Hungarian authorities. By the way, I would also ask Zsolt Németh to ask the State Department why he does not consider a persona non-grata a man, the Jordanian honorary consul Zaid Naffa, who also failed twice in national security control. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Do you have a personal interest in this?]] To this day, he can still be an honorary consul. They are not rejecting Hungary, they are not recalling it, and I stress that the national security screening of the TEK... [[The president's shutting down the speaker's mic.]] That's what I want you to do, fellow Members.
u2018-10-29-38	Thank you very much. Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-39	Thank you very much for the floor. [[His mic's not ringing. László Varju: Speak as you wish.]]
u2018-10-29-40	Szilárd Németh has the floor. Your card, please, Mr. Secretary, will you help me with this? [[Interview from DK's ranks: It's okay!]]
u2018-10-29-41	I'm sorry, everyone. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact that you have described is, because we can now talk about one fact, indeed, this is indeed the historical past of it. [[Márta Demeter: Is Parliament a Court of Justice?]] what Márta Demeter did to her country, to the parliament. Márta Demeter has clearly broken the law. This is clear to everyone [[Márta Demeter: It's not true!]] I mean, if you're just looking at the facts, what did you do? What you have said is not public military data, not public military information, training data, flight data, which you have otherwise disguised as a parliamentary written question, but you have made them public by falsifying their meaning. He forged the information himself, and he continued to do so. What happened? When he looked into these confidential, non-public data and documents in Kecskemét, he took out data that he thought he had caught a great deal. I don't see any ignorance in that. I don't want to use the word you used, or I don't see anyone leading you on. He acted very consciously, because this whole festival atmosphere that he started by publishing and falsifying the data [[Márta Demeter: Pathetic!]] It's for their own good. They want to keep getting into trouble, keep dealing with them, keep doing what they want. It is clear here that his idea has gone a little off the rails, because for everyone, even his own press, the Hungarian Orange, maintained by Soros, has noticed that something is not completely round in this story. [[It's a grumble from DK's ranks.]] [[14.20]] So when a Hungarian representative in the Hungarian Parliament, one of the most important committees of the Hungarian Parliament, as its leader, abuses the possibility that he may not view public, confidential data and training data, he can study them [[Márta Demeter: You don't know what you're talking about!]] But you can't make them public, and you can't fake them, and I think they clearly show that with this act of Demeter, as the Defense Act otherwise states, there is a military and national security risk. [[Márta Demeter: You still don't get to decide that!]] And for that, Marta Demeter must answer in any way. But let's look at the aspect that you mentioned last, since the Hungarian Defence Agency is carrying out its task in the federal system of NATO. The Hungarian Defence Office, as you quoted, or the Ministry of Defence, hereby grants all Hungarian MPs the right to obtain special data, especially if someone is a member of the commission or vice-president. Now, imagine, in a report we read that a very serious terrorist attack on one of the NATO missions recently took place, and the basis of this terrorist attack was the services, where allied soldiers lost their lives, some military training information was handed over to the enemy, the terrorists. Now, in this case, we can't protect the data of a United Nations soldier from that congressman. [[Márta Demeter: You issued any data! You! And they'll answer for it!]] The one who finds out about the fool's watch and says that I've finally found something, I can finally hook up with the government again because it's his only goal in life, and I'm telling you that he consciously planned it because he was prepared to be co-chair of the LMP that week, and maybe with this great act, he'll get more votes elected, that he'll come before the NATO allies? How reliable do you say that is? How reliable is the Vice-President of the Defence Commission, who is able to provide non-public military data in order to pursue his simple, stupid political goals? [[Tordai Bence: Like you!]] Not at all! Márta Demeter has nothing to do with the commission or Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-42	Dear Parliament, The speeches before the agenda are over, thank God. [[Defiance.]] I would like to ask Mr Dezső Believer to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-10-29-43	Dear Parliament, Today's speech following the agenda was submitted by Bulgarian ethnic advocate Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; Márta Demeter, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Dóra Dúró, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK.On Tuesday's day, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Imre László, DK; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; István Szávay, Jobbik; István Simicskó, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. Márta Demeter, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2018-10-29-44	Dear Parliament, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and Gyula Budai, on the joint party list of the Christian Democratic People's Party, for the resignation of MEP Zoltán Balog. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Gyula Budai's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-45	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balog... [[Intercoms: We can't hear you! Péter Cseresnyés: Move the microphone up!]]
u2018-10-29-46	Congressman, your card's in there. Then let's try to help, Mr. Congressman's voice to those on the other side of the horseshoe.
u2018-10-29-47	[[For portable microphones:]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balog resigned his mandate on the 17th day of October. The competent nominating organisation Fidesz and KDNP have made their own motion. Accordingly, the National Election Committee gave the mandate to Dr. Gyula Budai. This Commission decision was final on 28 October at 16 a.m. Thus, the immunity committee had the opportunity to see the documents submitted. We've established that the documents are in order. Congressman Gyula Budai has provided in writing that there is no conflict of interest with him. Thus, the immunity committee could unanimously conclude that the terms of the mandate were met. This has been done unanimously, and we propose this to the Honourable Parliament. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask this House whether it justifies Gyula Budai's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote. Score shown on the table: 153 yes, 5 no, 0 stay. For signal:]] Congressman János Harghitai's voting machine doesn't work, if I understand correctly. In view of this, I declare the resolution that the mandate of Mr President, by 154 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstention, has been confirmed by the House. Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I'll ask Congressman Gyula Budai to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath. And I ask the Honourable Parliament to rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Gyula Budai steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-10-29-49	I, Gyula Budai, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2018-10-29-50	After taking the oath, I ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Gyula Budai and gives a copy of the signed oath document. First, Dr. Gyula Budai congratulates Máté Kocsis, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach and Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes.]] Dear Parliament, Please allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to wish you successful work and success. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in a voting machine. However, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts a recommendation on the agenda. Let's get a hand lift on this one. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Attorney General is the KSB. 4861/2014-82-I. In his order No. 13, Mr.György Simonka applied for the suspension of the immunity of the Members of Parliament of Fideszes in public proceedings. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/3117. Mr Simonka presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of Members of Parliament, on which Parliament will decide without debate. [[14.30]] Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, the chairman of the committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal, within a maximum time frame of five minutes.
u2018-10-29-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As the President said in his chair, in his transcript, the Attorney General asks the Parliament to suspend Mr Simonka György's immunity for the crimes of fiscal fraud, for the execution of various facts concerning bribery and for the misdemeanor of the use of false private documents. These are public cases. Following the discovery of the facts, on the basis of the work of the Csongrád County Customs and Finance Office, the Attorney General reached this position: to various producer sales groups and organisations which were supported by EU or budgetary resources, this activity was aimed at the illegal acquisition of resources. The Attorney General thinks it's probable cause, so he turned to the National Assembly. In order for the Central Investigator's Attorney General to conduct the necessary investigations at this time of the evening, it is clearly necessary to suspend immunity. Following today's committee meeting, the Committee unanimously proposes to the Parliament the suspension of immunity, following the unbroken practice that the committee and the Parliament have followed in such matters. We therefore propose that the Member's immunity be suspended on this subject. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-52	I will ask Congressman György Simonka if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to live. Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask this House whether it suspends the immunity of Mr Simonka György, Member of Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has decided unanimously to suspend the Member's immunity by 163 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:33 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "How long will workers in the poorer parts of the country be punished? On behalf of the Prime Minister, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, which is competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. I give the floor to the congressman and then to Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In 2003, you campaigned for EU accession by saying that if Hungary becomes a member of the European Union, we will also have a Western standard of living. The 14 years since accession, an average of HUF 2.2 billion of EU funds arrived in Hungary on a daily basis, so perhaps they do not find me impatient if I ask the question: here is the Western standard of living that we have now? Or were they just thinking about their standard of living in 2003? 'Cause it's definitely been caught up to the Western European level. In the meantime, the average Hungarian, let's say, in Eastern Hungary, is not only the Western European wage level, but even the Western Hungarian wage level is a fantasy. According to the latest figures, a Szabolcsi employee today receives less than 123,000 HUF for the same job than a capital city. This is a complete salary in Szabolcs, ladies and gentlemen. A medical worker in Borsod earns about half as much as his colleague in Győr, even though I venture to say that a person who, say, has to save lives in the Gypsy settlements in Borsod, in the face of life-threatening threats, is working the same job in Győr for a much higher salary. Do you think that's fair? Because we don't think so. And believe me, Mr. Secretary, workers in the break-down parts of the country don't want much, but they want as much as the average Hungarian earns. In four years, 24,000 of Borsod and Szabolcs have migrated. They did not go abroad, but to the more developed regions of Hungary, typically Pest County and Győr-Moson-Sopron. They would settle for wages in Western Hungary, but even the Hungarian state will not give them this, as public companies also discriminate against workers working in the break-down parts of the country when they pay much less for the same job, say, for a worker in Miskolc than for a Győr. In fact, if, in line with the logic of the market, a substantial increase in wages is finally set in motion, then what are you doing? For 450 million forints, 5,000 cheap Ukrainian migrant workers are organized to stop the increase in wages as quickly as possible. We think it's a shame, it's a shame! That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how long do you intend to continue this economic policy? How long do you intend to punish workers with lower wages, whose only crime is to be born into a poorer part of the country? Because if you continue to pursue this economic policy, if you continue to say that we do not need Western wages, but Eastern migrant workers, if you continue to say that cheap labour is Hungary's competitive advantage instead of a quality workforce, then a lot of regions will literally die in this economic policy. I ask Mr Secretary of State to consider putting into practice the principle of equal pay for equal work, at least in those state firms where the government could do so directly. This is what the Hungarians expect of you and the answer to my question. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-54	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! The Hungarian government is looking at each geographical area of the country equally, and I reject the suggestion expressed in its question, because there is no such thing. Reducing territorial differences has been an important task for the government for decades, and it is trying to do so as much as possible. With your permission, I'll give you a few specific examples. One of them is the creation of free business zones, which is clearly the most effective in these areas. The other, which was also a great help to these local authorities, which you are talking about, was able to settle the debt of the local authorities in 2010, and the Hungarian villages were launched, as well as the modern cities, which is also a great help. But to speak of specific employment, it seems clear now, I think, to you too, that employment has increased in the country, unemployment has fallen dramatically, and this also affects the region you are talking about. The figures clearly show that the Member is not quite right, as the territory of Hungary to the east of the Danube has received more support than the West during the current period of support. In the eastern part, we supported more than 16,000 projects with a grant of HUF 3000 billion, while in the Western part 11 thousand projects received funding worth HUF 2400 billion. From this, it is clear that the government's intention to help the eastern parts is clearly very useful, and all economic measures also point in the direction of achieving and achieving this. With your permission, I also hope that I can help you to convince you that your question is only partially correct, and that your arguments are only partially true, because in recent years gross and net, as well as real wages, have increased steadily, and this affects the region that you are talking about. Looking at territorial statistics, we can conclude that there is no substantial delay in this sense in the eastern part of the country you mentioned. In terms of gross wages, there was an increase above the national average in the North-Hungarian and the South-Alföld regions, however, we must clearly recognise that there was a lower number of people from which they could start, and that the wage growth in the North-Alföld region was not substantially lower than the national average. I'm here to give you information on the rate of growth. It therefore seems clear that the government is also paying clear attention to the country's eastern areas. And that, I think, should not be a substantial part of such a relatively short question, to discuss that there are indeed geographical economic differences within a country, and this is not just a Hungarian feature, but this is also in Italy or even in Germany. The important thing is that the government pays attention to this issue. It should also be borne in mind that, in these parts of the country, in the eastern part, it is still very, very large and significant to involve public workers, which is obviously another important thing, an important measure in these areas. [[14.40]] Of course, we see and know that this can only be temporary help, but I think, in this situation, in this area, it is certainly a forward-looking work. It should also be seen that there is now a clear value-creating activity in this work, and I believe that it will also prepare those citizens to be able to cope in the competitive sector in the labour market in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-56	I'll return the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-10-29-57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I can't accept your answer because you're not telling the truth. If you were telling the truth, we would say today that the wages of the shopkeeper in Sajóbányi and Kőszeg would not be much different. The reality is that the difference between average wages in Borsodi and Hungarian has increased by 20 percent over the last two years. This is due, among other things, to your interference with market conditions. There is no problem in itself, the problem is that they are doing this on the wrong side. They intervene in market conditions when they bring cheap Ukrainians to Hungary. They intervene in market conditions when they bring the multinationals working for slave wages into competitive advantage over domestic businesses. They intervene in market conditions when entrepreneurs are forced to give money back to corrupt politicians, money that could, for example, raise wages. The result is that the principle of equal pay for equal work does not apply, and I would like it to prevail. I want someone from Borsodi who doesn't work for half as much as a győr. Or do you think a workman from Borsodi is worth half that much? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Like a metropolitan? Yes or no? Vote! Vote! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-58	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 44 with one abstention. Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: - Will voluntary pension fund savings be protected as well as private pension fund payments? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-10-29-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let's get on with it. You did not answer my oral question the other day, and I trust you are prepared for my interpellation today. They've bled out the housing savings banks in about 24 hours, and it's been a well-functioning system for 22 years. They did this, as I told you the other day, in the year of the families, which they are so expressing. They gave a bagatell justification that, in fact, the housing savings banks did not really meet the goals of home creation, otherwise these housing savings banks produced extra profit, and they had to go through all this so quickly that no one else could conclude new contracts. Now, the fact is that we already know and see that such new contracts cannot be concluded, that the existing ones cannot be extended, and that from now on it is actually just a pen stroke, that the existing subsidies will also be withdrawn. Since then, there has been all kinds of news about voluntary pension funds. Let's see who we're talking about and what we're talking about. Today there are more than 1.1 million people in Hungary who have a voluntary pension fund payment, and only in 2017 the voluntary pension fund member income credited to the individual account was HUF 101 billion. By the way, it's more than 10 percent more than it was in the previous year. If I look at all the salons, we see that the total managed assets of pension funds are about HUF 1,400 billion, of which 59 percent is made up of individual contributions. But there are also voluntary health and self-help funds. Here, too, the number of members exceeds one million. Cashier services exceed HUF 50 billion a year, most of which otherwise goes to support the purchase price of medicine and medical aid. But if we go back to the pension funds, it's also in his name, the voluntary pension funds, as his name indicates, are the savings and savings of individuals, people who are self-initiated and self-initiated. We can see that there's a lot of money involved. It is understandable, therefore, that people's fears can be understood, after the withdrawal of pension funds and the pledging of housing savings banks, whether or not the government will look into this. So I want clear answers, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to change or not the rules concerning voluntary cash registers? Will people leave their own savings in peace? Do they want to put their hands on voluntary pension payments as well? What about the support for the renovations? What about the renovation funds for the condos? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-10-29-60	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your interpellation was special, because what you described didn't tell me or didn't want to tell me, so if you'll allow me, I'd quote a few things out of it, because you use words like this to kill, butcher, extortion, extortion. You didn't use any of these terms, and you seem to disagree with the interpellation you've written. The essence of his interpellation is that he wants to scare people, the Hungarian people, in the sense that the private voluntary pension fund is to be taken away from them by the state and used for its own purposes, not for the purposes of the people. Of course, I reject that on behalf of the government. I would like to reassure those people, as you said, of the more than one million people who have such savings, that the regulation of this will obviously not change, and there is nothing to do with the withdrawal of state aid from the housing fund to change the voluntary pension fund system. This is also stated in Government Decision No 1281 of 2010, of which 1/b. The Commission maintains and strengthens voluntary mutual pension insurance funds based on voluntary contributions in addition to the State Pillar. So when the government was founded in 2010, it made it quite clear that it did not want to change or even strengthen people's self-care tendencies, which is why these payments are subject to a 20% tax credit. In total, voluntary pension funds and health and self-help funds have more than two million members, and they have significant wealth, which gives people a reassuring return, and their money, after they themselves manage and supervise these funds and systems, so obviously these funds are safe. Honourable Congressman, He asked several questions at the end of his interpellation. If you'll allow me, in the same style as you put it on, I'd answer all of them. So, when do they get their hands on voluntary pension payments? I answered, they don't put it on, the question is also incomprehensible. Will the state leave people's savings of their own volition in peace? In the style you ask, "Leave him alone," he's always left him alone, and the Fidesz government has never hurt or changed people's own savings. Do they want to change the rules on voluntary cash registers, or do they want to put their hands on them? They don't want it, they won't. As I said, in 2010, the government said not only that it does not want to change, but that it wants to strengthen self-care. What about the support for the renovations of the apartments, what about the renovation funds of the condos? This regulation does not change, the state aid part of the housing savings fund system has changed, the house regulation will not change. Your last question is, in the future, is it really the only person who can get state aid to buy a home? I can tell you it's true. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is because families and Hungarian families are the first for the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-62	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2018-10-29-63	I do not accept the answer, Mr. Secretary, but if you have missed it, I say: private pension funds have been stolen, it is HUF 3000 billion. They blackmailed people into going back into the state system, because if they don't go back, they won't get a pension. I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, I don't need you to draw my attention to this, by the way, but thank you very much for strengthening me on this. [[14.50]] And if the story is that you want to protect him, as you have always wanted to protect either the housing savings banks, private pensions or voluntary payments, then unfortunately, we have to say that this is not the case. We see how the 3,000 billion was stolen, we see how the housing savings banks were plowed. Why do you think, Mr. Secretary, that the people will believe anything you say? I can't accept the answer.
u2018-10-29-64	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 38, with one abstention. Sometimes there's a typo in the script, or sometimes the senior president misreads what he sees, but now it's not the case. So what I'm about to read is literally in this way, according to the Congressman's wishes, in the minutes and in the script. László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Shouldn't we be helping rather than sharing home care? It's an address. [[Defiance.]] If no one understands, you have to find the device where the error is; it's not in mine. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-65	Thank you very much. I'll try to get Mr. President's device in the right direction, and then this story will work. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I see you've finally found out that home care hasn't fought in vain with us to change this situation. From what I understand, a new Secretary of State has been assigned to this area. It was time to change people, because the new position really needs a new Member. However, you've managed enough folk tales of your decision, i.e. you've brought and you haven't. They raised those who nursed their sick children and did not raise to those whose relatives were already of age. You have done what the historical predecessors have done: based on the principle of "divide and conquer," they wanted to reach out to those involved in home care and to them. Well, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to tell you that this didn't work. You think you can silence the nursing home, some of them, so you can shut the whole thing up. They're gravely mistaken. But instead of going into it now, on what basis you're making a distinction between caring for a sick person and a sick person based on age, I'd rather ask you a question. Tell me, how much pension will you get for caring for your child seven days a week, from morning to night? ! And how much pension does someone who's not underage have? So how much pension does he have? I'll tell you, Mr. Secretary, nothing. This situation must therefore be changed for you. It's no coincidence that we European Hungarians [[Fury, murmur.]] From the beginning, we demand that home care be recorded as an employment relationship in the labour code, because the labour code does not distinguish between man and man, life and life. Only the amendment to the Labour Code guarantees that you do not leave vulnerable people on the side of the road, leave 33 thousand people there. Gentlemen, if you can afford to move to the Castle, you can also get home care. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] Unlike you, I visited the people involved and came to me. [[Noise, interruptions.]] You didn't speak to them on Friday either, and unlike you, I ask you over and over again whether you are willing to acknowledge this physically and mentally stressful work. But at the moment, as a result of your cuts in the Orbán package, it seems that they are still reluctant, even regretting the caretakers at home. Thank you very much, Mr. President, you may have succeeded. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-29-66	You have now been able to make sense of what you want to ask, Mr President, but the title of the question was not according to the rules of the Hungarian language, so I took the liberty of explaining this. Attila Philip, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2018-10-29-67	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that the case of the 50,000 families we are talking about deserves a worthy debate and a worthy tone. I really wanted to answer on a professional basis, but I would still be on the ground of objectivity in the context of folktale motives, many material errors and the case of otherwise political moods. But allow me, Congressman, to introduce three paragraphs of what I have to say. In the two thousand years the Hungarian budget was three years when the amount of the care fee did not increase, not a single forint: it was the three years when you worked as State Secretary in the Ministry of National Development and Economic Affairs. After you were responsible for coordinating improvements before 2010, there was no coherent concept for those at home at the care fee in that period to see what could really be done to improve their situation. Allow one number: from 2005 onwards, the increase in the amount of the highest care fee until 2010 was 15 per cent, and from 2010 the current government decision was 270 per cent. So the difference is 15 percent and 270 percent. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] Although it has not been said here, the Member also mentions the participation in the protest in the written paper, and he has just mentioned how they think of it as European Hungarians. I think that it can be considered below human and European standards that the image of the Prime Minister elected by a two-thirds majority of Hungarians in any protest on such a case is being beaten in the framework of an official programme. But allow me to respond to other material errors and to draw your attention to this in an objective way. Indeed, the amount of the care allowance has increased several times since 2011, to varying degrees depending on the status of the family. As of January this year, pensioners who care for their permanently ill children for at least 20 years at home will receive an additional allowance of HUF 50,000 per month, and the state will also pay a pension contribution from gross premiums, so they will also obtain pension rights, contrary to what has already been said. In order to support family care relatives, the government decided to introduce a new form of care, namely a child care fee and a further increase in care fees. This decision was made simultaneously by the government. Contrary to what has been said, there has been cooperation and negotiation with civil society organisations. As of August, I myself have dealt with both MEOSZ and the other five major disability organisations, and what they have proposed has been partially incorporated. The last time we talked about this was in the framework of the National Disability Council on Friday last week. The child's care fee will be HUF 100,000 gross. For families with more self-sufficient children, however, the fee will be 150 thousand forints, one and a half times that. Mr President, he also mentioned the burden of caring for older children in the life of the family. That is why I would like to stress that, regardless of age, there is also an increase in the premium in his age. Looks like you've missed this before. And to return to a folk wisdom, there is a connection between repetition and knowledge, so let me say this again: since 2010, the highest care fee has risen by 270 percent, which has been 15 percent in the last five years. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-68	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2018-10-29-69	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I see the writer remains the same, and that's why you're wrong, because you're confusing protests. But the point is that your 15 percent raise for the 33,000 people you leave behind is not gonna cost you a pack of diapers. That's why we stand up for 33,000 people. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] I have not heard a date from you, Mr Secretary of State, when the necessary legislation will be pushed through Parliament in two days, when you will. And if you don't want to, you can set up a committee. You talk about 33,000 people over and over again and leave them on the side of the road. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that home care is the job in Europe. The question is where are you? You are not in Europe with this decision. That's why I don't accept your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-29-70	I ask this House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 37, with 1 abstention. [[15.00]] Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What measures are being taken to stop further drastic degradation of the waste management public service. Congresswoman's got the floor. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-29-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Waste management is facing increasingly serious daily operational problems across the country. It is clear that families and real estate users would be willing to participate in this activity with a high-quality, well-organised and accurate public service. It is not acceptable that this sector in Hungary is also constantly degenerating.At 2012 level, just when regional waste management systems were put in place, public service charges were frozen, local authorities were deprived of their right to charge. There is no cover for depreciation, there is a continuous use of national waste management assets. Several stages, through the amendment of the Waste Act, have withdrawn product fee revenues from the industry, which have also been increased. New taxes, contributions, fees have been introduced. Public service vehicles pay e-tolls, income tax on energy suppliers, landfill charges, supervisory fees. Instead of strict and consistent control and rational regulation, competition in the waste market was eliminated and waste became public. The National Waste Management Agency has failed the newly created NHKV Zrt. in a corporate form. Still, it acts as an authority, it acts as a redistribution centre, but the real professional coordination that is needed is not being performed. New players in waste management consume more than HUF 2 billion a year, while also increasing bureaucracy at the level of public service providers. NHKV Zrt. is unable to solve accurate invoicing, but even if it were to be resolved, there has been no revenue from the general public through public service charges for operations, renovations or improvements. There is no well-functioning network of waste yards, re-use centres, decimators, composters. The treatment of construction waste and domestic hazardous waste is unsolved. Through centralisation and the displacement of municipalities, we are only moving away from the possibility of waste management based on local communities. The government does not recognise its responsibility for unthinkable interventions, it does not continuously provide the missing financial resources of the sector, which is indebted at the level of public service providers and coordinating organisations. Hungary is the, you are the, you are the, you are the, you are the, you are Despite the movement, it becomes a large garbage dump through a dramatic illegal landfill, because it is unable to cope with the mandatory public task without the system's own fault. There is no adequate coordinated control by the competent authorities, and the sanctioning of those who have committed the crime is extremely small. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and inform the House that the answer to the interpellation question that has been raised will be from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I must state that you are falsely claiming, in Hungarian: you are not telling the truth about the fact that a whole economic sector has become inoperable. I must reject this statement, because, unlike you, the government is also approaching the issue of waste management from the point of view of what is in the best interests of the people. I may not agree with this, but for my part, I believe that reducing the public burden of people is a useful and necessary government measure. This was done at several stages in 2012, especially if the public service providers of a sector-wide overall ability to generate profits, but poorly organised, intend to charge consumers a significant proportion of their own development costs. The extension of the reduction to the waste management public service fee has prevented this from happening, reducing the costs of Hungarian families. NHKV Zrt. the standardisation of the waste management public service, the development of self-sustaining national waste management and the maintenance of the results of the reduction of costs. Today, NHKV Zrt. it pays a service fee from a public service fee for public service providers. The other measures you object to, the conversion of the environmental product fee, the deposit fee, the EKAER system are among the economic whitening measures applicable to all operators, and they serve to ensure that the ratio of recovered waste and waste disposed of by landfill is as high as possible in Hungary. Not us, but the OECD's relevant report states, as has already been said today, that by 2015 the proportion of waste disposed of by landfill fell from 81 percent to 54 percent, and the proportion of recycled waste was nearly tripled by 2016, reaching 35 percent. The government, as it has done so far, will continue to improve domestic indicators and improve the quality of public service organisation. In this context, NHKV Zrt., Zöld Híd Kft. paid particular attention. also to examine its financing proposals. Green Bridge Ltd. However, according to my information, it was not in any way, with any documents, legal or economic evidence, that it was able to support its need for additional resources during the review. Instead, he decided to suspend the service at the expense of the population. However, legal instruments and procedures are also available for such cases. If a public service provider is unable to carry out its task as a result of difficulties in its management, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection shall ensure the removal of the waste, if requested by the local authorities concerned, by designating a public service provider. The need for this has arisen only in the case of the Green Bridge. It is not the first time that the government has to solve the operational problems of a supply system, but you know that people know that we have always found the right solution for such situations, and that we will find the right solution in the next period. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-75	I don't accept the answer. That wasn't my question, and I don't feel like I've been answered. I wanted to hear from you, Mr Secretary of State, whether you will review the operation of these companies, and if you are struggling with a lack of resources, you will help them. I don't think the solution is that disaster management is going to organize garbage shipments, and I didn't say anything about Green Bridge Ltd. But I could've said them, because like they did for the first time, they're gonna be different people who won't be able to solve this situation. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 36 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: "Why have the house savings been planned without anything else? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At last week's meeting, the Parliament closed the state support system for house savings with record speed. There is no similar savings product on the market, CSOK and Antal Rogán are no alternative to young people and older people who could use the savings not only to buy new apartments but also to renovate apartments. The decision of the Parliament is also irresponsible, i.e. the decision of the majority, because the quality of Hungarian dwellings is extremely worrying. In fact, according to a recent report published, 1.5 million people live in homes in Hungary today with severe housing quality problems. About 80 percent of the 4,4 million residential properties in Hungary repeat, 80 percent do not meet modern technical and energy aspects. This particularly affects the housing costs and quality of life of the majority of Hungarians. [[15.10]] Instead of abolishing State aid for housing savings, an alternative would therefore be needed to help young people access to housing and renovate their homes. The Bank Alliance also requires the introduction of a new construction. They ask that, on the basis of a professional consultation, it be possible to establish a new structure as soon as possible, in which the state aid could work with the best efficiency in the long term, in the interests of the Hungarian families, the economy and the state budget. Now, it seems like there's no way. But perhaps the Secretary of State can reassure us in his reply that they are thinking about something. So I ask the Secretary of State the following questions. Why have the housing register system been plowed without another housing support system for young people who are unable to take on the CSOK, or do they not want to participate in the Rogán messy house lotteries, or those who wanted to renovate their apartment? What is the government preparing for these layers, to support these people, to help them? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-29-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's interpellation will be from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-79	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It may be interesting, strange, but I would prefer to call your interpretation discredited in that you are concerned about the housing situation, because, if I may say so, I would like to return to the time when you were a state leader, a secretary of state, a minister, to what you did in order to improve the housing situation in quotes. But first, I would like to say that from 1998 onwards, the Orbán government has developed a comprehensive support policy that could improve the housing conditions of hundreds of thousands of people. What was this system about? We have introduced a system of interest subsidies, a personal income tax reduction, a tax refund subsidy, a tax reduction and a tax exemption. And now you are coming after 2002: from 2003 onwards, the Socialist Government has significantly tightened the eligibility conditions for housing loans; it has tightened the use of the preferential interest rate; it has first tightened the facility and then completely abolished it in 2007. Then what was the result? The result was that the Hungarian family could not obtain a state-supported HUF-based loan, who wanted to improve their housing situation. Instead, millions have chosen the foreign exchange credit system. You have pushed people from a state-funded HUF-based housing loan system into the currency lending system, which has resulted in a 25-fold increase in foreign currency loans under your governance. But it is not enough that people were pushed into such a hopeless situation, of course, which was later discovered during the crisis, even the housing support system and the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called "public support" has not been permanently supported by any state. Here comes Fidesz 2010 to fix the problem of foreign exchange lending [[Depreciation and murmuring in the ranks of opposition parties.]] and start removing housing problems. For this reason, Fidesz had to develop a home-building programme that does not regenerate the number of insolvent lenders and does indeed bring about a qualitative improvement in housing. This cannot, of course, be introduced at the same time; this is necessary in several steps. In any case, the first results are already felt, as 90,000 families used the family home-building discount, which cost the state HUF 250 billion. The housing support system that you have been crying back so much, which has not been effective and has not been effective, and has not actually helped people, instead the CSOK and the new home creation program have already done so, and has proved this. And what the government has said is also real, that it will move the funds that will be released from the housing support system to CSOK, as the government has already decided that families with two children can use the loan with a discount interest rate up to HUF 10 million and that the amount will increase to HUF 15 million for the three children. This is the first step, which will be followed by the next steps. There is only one goal: to improve effectively the housing problems of Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Sándor Burány if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-81	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Look, Secretary of State Tallai, when I was Secretary of State, there was a house savings bank, now that you're the Secretary of State, now you're not. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Yes, there is!]] No state aid [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you're asking me for state aid, Mr. Secretary of State. When I was a minister and secretary of state, the Swiss franc was 160 HUF, now more than 200 HUF when you were State Secretary. Because, indeed, you came in 2010 and destroyed the forint, and then you had the nerve to help the foreign exchange loan holders by HUFing these loans on a market basis instead of making up for the foreign exchange loan at the rate when I was State Secretary. [[It's grumpy.]] Your family support system is distorted because they're thinking of one model. I do not object to your support for this system. I object to the fact that the rest will be eliminated. It's a shame, Mr. Secretary. I don't accept the answer.
u2018-10-29-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Fellow Members! The interpellation period is not over! Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:, What is the Hungarian Government planning to do about the Ukrainian attacks on Transcarpathian Hungarians? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Németh has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-83	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I was in Transcarpathia this weekend, I was able to meet both county and Hungarian leaders, and on the basis of what we have seen in recent months, we regret that Hungarian-Ukrainian relations have reached a 30-year low. Hungary has been most strongly in favour of Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic accession since 1991, we have supported the EU-Ukrainian Association Agreement, visa waiver, we have defended Ukraine's territorial integrity, we have voted together with our EU partners on sanctions against Russia, we have supplied gas on our lines, we have hosted Ukrainian children in our country. In the light of this, the Ukrainian steps taken since then can be assessed as a failure, a violation of the rights of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. With regard to the Education Act of September last year, which aims to limit the acquired rights of minorities living in Ukraine, the Venice Commission made a number of recommendations. NATO, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the European Council itself, and asked the Ukrainian party to follow the recommendations. We would think that, thanks to the great international pressure and bilateral dialogue, the situation would be somewhat improved, but unfortunately we have to find the opposite. It's enough to think that there's been surveillance footage at the Beregszás consulate, followed by mutual expulsions. Soldiers are being deployed to Transcarpathia, barracks are being built; the new language law is being debated in Ukrainian legislation, which would make Ukrainian the only official language, introducing the facts of the language crime, along with language police. [[15.20]] In fact, Transcarpathian Hungarians are now in danger not only from a legal point of view, but also in a physical sense. The Ukrainian far-right portal Mirotrovec published the Hungarian personal data of hundreds of Transcarpathians who, according to them, received Hungarian citizenship and, in their opinion, violated the Constitution. The name of the Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó was also published on the list as an enemy of Ukraine. Where's the line? This is not worthy of a country that sets NATO and EU targets. The Transcarpathian Hungarians are under constant intimidation and are set as enemies. By listing the Hungarians, do you not think, Mr Secretary of State, that Ukrainian anti-Hungarian politics has reached a new level? What do you know about the background of the Mirotrovec portal? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What is the government planning to do to protect the foreign minister's personal rights? I'm asking you for an answer. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2018-10-29-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your questioning and questioning. You are certainly right, in the grave Transcarpathia of the situation. Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó also discussed last week with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin and also with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. But before I get to these negotiations, I would really like to say a few sentences about the intimidation, the abuse of rights that you have already mentioned in part, because although we have talked about them a lot, we can never have enough. Indeed, the education law was the first step, and here they took away the right to study in mother tongue. Then the language law was already adopted at first reading by the Ukrainian Parliament, the intention is clear: after education, I would like to reduce ethnic language use in public administration, the media and culture as well. KMKSZ's office in Ungvár was tried to blow up twice, and unfortunately, they succeeded twice. A secret service operation was carried out at our Consulate General in Beregszás, and indeed, there is the Mirotrovec extremist website, which was mentioned by the Member. The Hungarians are listed here, they are declared enemies of Ukraine. There are over 500 names on this list, and the Hungarian Foreign Minister is undoubtedly on this list, but it is perhaps, indeed, more important that more than 500 other Transcarpathians are Hungarians. I would like to remind you that many of the people listed by this extreme website and whose personal data have been published have previously been murdered. By the way, although this website itself claims to be independent, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that its founder, Heorhij Tuka, is currently in government position and position, he is the Deputy Minister for Occupied Territories in Ukraine. So there is state aid in the fight against Hungarians. It should also be said that a petition was launched on the Ukrainian Parliament's website, and signatures were collected for the deportation of the Hungarians. We are pleased that this petition is no longer on Parliament's website, but that it could have been there at all and not acted against it immediately is unacceptable. Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, honourable Member, discussed last week with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin, and despite all this, the Hungarian Foreign Minister initiated a draft minority protection agreement with his Ukrainian colleague. I would like to highlight three of these points. The first is that governments refrain from pursuing policies that lead to the assimilation of a national community. Second, governments refrain from policies that would change the composition of nationality in each region. Third, the Convention would provide free language for nationalities in the fields of religious practice, culture, education and public administration. Of course, the Hungarian Foreign Minister also informed the Secretary-General of NATO about this, immediately after his meeting with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, and drew the attention of the NATO Secretary-General and the NATO ambassadors to the clear Ukrainian side of the ball. The Hungarian party initiated a draft agreement, despite the fact that Hungarians are constantly being intimidated and their rights are being lost. Finally, honourable Member, I would like to draw your attention to a phenomenon last week. You may have missed it, but it's not your fault. Last week, the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Ágnes Vadai, asked for the defence of Transcarpathian Hungarians on the government, and then, of course, immediately after that, he went out and held a press conference against Hungarians across the border, and if I paid close attention to DK's activities, they held one of these today. So it can be said that the Democratic Coalition, however shocking, has placed itself on a platform with the Ukrainian parliament and government. [[Interview from the governing parties' benches: Yes! Gergely Harvester: You're lying!]] The Ukrainian parliament and government want to take away the existing, acquired rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia and the Democratic Coalition. In their case it is so much more serious that their representatives of Hungarians this is disgusting! Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right! Gergely Harvesto: It's you! Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]]
u2018-10-29-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: No!]]
u2018-10-29-87	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We must not forget that there will be a presidential election in Ukraine in March, and that the parliamentary elections will also be expected next year. So we have a very difficult half-year ahead of us. I believe that the negotiation process that is taking place between the two foreign ministers is a very important tension-reducing process, as Moskal's governor's activities in Transcarpathia, as he is also active in maintaining ethnic peace, and I thanked him at the end of the week. I think our most important task is to prevent further escalation of the situation. Our other task is to be behind the Transcarpathian Hungarians. Perhaps the most important task of Hungarian public life is to keep [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let us be present and ensure our attention. Thank you very much for your attention. I accept your answer. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, who takes responsibility for this inhumane treatment? It's an address. Congressman János Stummer has the floor, please.
u2018-10-29-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Today, about 15,000 homeless people live in our country, and nearly a third of them spend every night on the streets. According to a previous survey, seven percent of the adult population have members who are familiar, relatives, and family members who are homeless. This means that about half a million people in Hungary have direct experience of homelessness. What, shall I ask you the rhetorical question, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not a problem that is a major part of society, which should finally be resolved?!The Jobbik suggest with the utmost determination that the government of Viktor Orbán should develop separate but interrelated solutions for the current chronic situation, but this is very important in terms of public cleanliness, epidemiological, public order, health and social matters. A fair solution to the homeless question is also considered urgent. We must provide proper accommodation for these fellow humans, but it is also very important that they are not without conditions. The basic rules of Community co-existence must be demanded of everyone. However, we cannot agree with the method that you are implementing. Please, there won't be a solution here, and again, because you can't see beyond your own nose. Criminalising this case alone is not the answer. It is necessary to improve the supply system, licenses and the necessary means for social workers to be able to accommodate as many people as possible. Take the people who need it in there, but there, in these institutions, ensure that the legal and all other conditions are in place to keep these people there. There is a housing crisis in Hungary today. And if you don't think that, you don't say that, you're either blind or you're lying. Let's talk about the families that you left on the side of the road, those who are forced to lie down with that stomach curve every day, laying their heads to sleep, wondering when you will receive a certain letter about leaving your own home soon. Mr. Secretary. Thousands of families are being evicted in Hungary, and women and children are being put on the streets at this time. What is the point of increasing the national housing crisis with this new measure? Who of you will look into the eyes of these families, who, as we can see, will soon no longer have a place on the street? Who is responsible for the fact that this unthinkable, poorly prepared legislation could have been put in place in Hungary in 2018? I look forward to the government's honored response. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2018-10-29-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Secretary of State Attila Philip. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We continue to think that the dignity of homeless people will not be helped by letting them live on the streets who argue that they should live and stay on the streets, but by creating the right conditions and the right conditions and services. The government has already operated these services and these supply systems, it has already guaranteed and will continue to guarantee them. Our conviction is that crisis-based homelessness must be eliminated and lifestyle-based homelessness must be eliminated, and I believe that this is not only dictated by moral command by common sense, but also by the right of life to dignity and the interest of the community. In connection with the amendment of the Fundamental Law and the related Violation Act, which entered into force on 15 October, the government decided to set up a HUF 300 million pension reserve. The reserve base is intended to prepare the supply system for the reception and long-term supply of homeless persons who live permanently in public areas. This year, the government spends more than HUF 9 billion to care for the homeless, there are temporary accommodation in more than 19 000 places, 9800 night shelters, and in winter we also provide an additional 1600 additional seats, and the number of day-to-day warmers reaches 7600. By aligning the opening hours of the forms of supply, namely that daytime warmers are open 10 hours a week from 15 October, it is assured that there is always an institution in the country that is available and where the homeless can enter. Honourable Congressman, In our view, these are the services that provide real help to the homeless. As you mentioned, homeless care is a complex matter, not a one-man genre, where the local government, the police, the ambulances, the vigilantes have a place. This has been the case in recent years, and this is how this supply will be done again this year. But if we are talking about homelessness, it is not a Hungarian-specific phenomenon, it is present in all European cities from London to Berlin or from Athens to Prague. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's just not criminalized there!]] We are confident that the kind of survival without danger that occurs in the winter, in the minus degrees, can work if we motivate our homeless neighbors to use the supply system. At the same time, the fundamental aim is to avoid the initiation of an infringement procedure, so that homeless persons are put into the system of punishment, because those who accept the assistance offered use the homeless system, do not initiate an infringement procedure, because it is not sanctioning, but encouraging them to use the services provided to the homeless and to help them. If, despite three calls from the policeman within 90 days, he is living in a public area, it is only in the event of a violation, and the most important thing is that the solution is not in the homeless system, but in the exit, in the social reintegration. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What are they doing for her?!]] focus on the labour market, the restoration of social relations and health rehabilitation. Therefore, from 1 January 17 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] housing services can be provided on their own. We are convinced that these measures can serve reintegration. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Move.]] My fellow Members, I would be honored to have the House seated. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I cannot accept your answer, you did not answer my question, I also read the law that was on the table in this House a few weeks ago. No wonder you don't understand or don't understand the question I've formulated for you. How would the party association, the government, understand this question, which has ploughed the housing register in two days, which has been in this country for the eighth year, so that... [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: 9th!]] ninth, apologies, in the ninth year, you would be in this country in the sense that a convicted repeat criminal has a daily supply of 7,000 forints, and a few hundred forints a day for a man who has no other sin in the world, he has committed no sin in this life than that he lost his home because of a family tragedy, an accident at work or any other change in his living conditions. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] Secretary of State, dear Fidesz-KDNP, you are a [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You've created an inhumane country, and you should be ashamed of it. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-10-29-94	Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Therefore, I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Dear House, Member Miklós Soltész, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: what measures are to be taken to promote and strengthen the parenting profession? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-29-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, After the change of government in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance was an important goal to place the children and young people concerned as much as possible in foster homes that are often somewhat outdated. Significant progress has been made in recent years [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Not from paper! From the head!]] now two thirds of children and young people who receive child protection live in foster care. When we discussed this here in Parliament, it was even said on the part of the MSZP [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why is your hand shaking?]] "We want to place those affected in foster homes instead of children's homes, so that we can sell the liberated property," said those who had had hospital institutions and others shut down just to put their hands on the wealth of social institutions and hospitals. The absurd accusation was repeated by an even LMP member, since then a political representative in another party who didn't understand what we wanted anyway. Thank God, ever since then, life has proved the right thing to do. The foster parents took on a serious service not only by educating children, young people, but also for the nation, the whole community of society. In fact, their work with much joy, but with many hardships, is a 24 - hour ministry. They should be thanked and respected for their work with great commitment, love, and vocation. He can only be a good foster parent if he is spiritually and spiritually qualified. Thanks also to all the institutions, communities and individuals who contribute to the spiritual and spiritual enhancement of foster parents, to educational institutions, church communities, and to the work of civil society organisations active in child protection. Of course, we also know that outside the spiritual, spiritual basis, there is also a need for material respect and support for foster parents. The opposition representatives also like to say this when they understand this, even though the MSZP-SZDSZ government has done nothing in substance in the period preceding the last eight years. Dear Secretary of State, Of the 5500 foster parents, only about 300 of them had employment opportunities, and now more than five thousand, more than 3200... more than 5200. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: Alas, alas!]] I therefore ask the Secretary of State what additional measures are being taken to promote foster care networks, this profession itself, after the measures that have been put in place so far. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Attila Philip. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the Hungarian government introduced in 2014 the employment relationship in the foster family, which from then on also ensured the financial stability of the foster parents. By number, this means that a foster parent who cared for one child had received 15,000 forints a month for his work, and now this amount is 60,000 forints, that if we talk about three children, it has increased from 45,000 to 120,000 forints. [[15.40]] The foster parents are now entitled to various benefits to cover the care of children, such as family allowances and other benefits such as free children's meals and free textbooks. Central budgetary resources for foster care have also increased. This means that in 2018, this year it is about HUF 20,5 billion that comes to this activity. This will continue to increase in 2019. The budget includes a surplus of HUF 850 million in the remuneration of the foster parents, which is due to the expected increase in the minimum wage. We consider the promotion and development of foster parenting to be particularly important in other applications as well. HUF 1.2 billion is available for the infrastructure and professional development of foster care networks, with the aim of increasing territorial supply and coverage in addition to the infrastructure development of foster care networks. A national campaign has been launched by the Ministry, which covers all counties. His first stop was in Debrecen this weekend. This has a double purpose. On the one hand, we would like to say this social responsibility to everyone as much as possible and to take the information that what foster parents carry is an important part of social networking, and on the other hand we would like to draw the attention of as many people as possible who have a calling for it, to apply as a foster parent or to participate as possible in this occupation. In this connection, an application was announced, which is a national drawing contest running with no title, in which the 23,000 children with child protection were expected to be submitted. I am pleased to say that some 3,000 applications have been submitted, and young people from all counties have been actively involved in this. The next location and the next recruitment campaign station will be in Szeged on 24 November 2018. However, the aim is more far-reaching: we want to strengthen the responsibility of the entire social network. We would like to draw attention to the joint responsibility of all of us to focus on the traditional values that are a sure foundation for our families and not just for these families, not just for these children, but also for the whole community. By strengthening the foster parents, we can strengthen the Hungarian families, and thus strengthen the nation as well. The child's protection and foster care are closely linked to helping families in a difficult situation back, trying to help them back from the edge of society by re-establishing a healthy family and a united family. The foster-parent bridge, to get the child back into his own family, we'd like to build this bridge in the future and support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Miklós Soltész if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-99	Dear Secretary of State, Knowing and knowing the life situation with which children become part of the foster family network and foster parents, it is a huge responsibility and task; and thank you for all the work done on the one hand by the staff in the field and, on the other hand, thank you to all those who undertake this task. Therefore, referring back a little to an earlier period, which the opposition of MSZP-SZDSZ, today, as I see it, called European Hungarians, did, when they understood everything in words, but in actions I do not ask you to carry out not only this area, but also the issue of homelessness in today's interpellations, as well as the issue of care fees in addition to foster parents, in the same way. From now on, no matter what you cry, no matter what the opposition shouts, what you realize, the wallet will be realized, that will be the result. Thank you very much for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, you accepted the Secretary of State's answer, didn't you? [[Miklós Soltész: Of course.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Limping" of all metaphors against the truth. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The above quote comes from Kálmán Mikszáth and shows the current state of health, because as long as the Hungarian health system has chaos and corruption, Fidesz talks about development and progress, which is obviously lame. The Hungarian health care system is characterized by the masses of nurses and surrogate doctors. The reason for this is that public payments are so low that, from the surrounding countries, not only Austria and Slovakia are ahead of us, but also Romania. These countries have found that doctors cannot be kept in their country without an immediate and high salary increase. Unfortunately, the Fidesz governments haven't figured that out yet. As a result, health institutions are forced to employ their doctors in a different contractual relationship, such as an entrepreneur. In this way, doctors can earn the gross HUF 900,000 to 1 million, which is enough to stay in Hungary. However, this leads to severe wage tension. This is what we can see in the case of the lip hospital, where the hospital considered the money thus distributed to be excessive, but this practice also contributes greatly to the debt of hospitals, since the state does not or only partially reimburse these expenses. The truly terrible picture of the health care system is presented to us when we see that the Fidesz elite has a number of prominent health care services for itself. In this context, Fidesz gentlemen are entitled to specialized hotel services, screening tests that other people do not receive, which should be carried out by leading medical practitioners and may also receive outpatient care. In addition, a number of current or former ministers and state ministers voted in favour of maintaining these benefits, some of whom are responsible for health care, some of which are: Bence Rétvári, Zoltán Balog, Gergely Gulyás, Péter Szijjártó, Mihály Varga, Zsolt Semjén. They seem to vote in favour of their own care, but they don't care about what's going on in health care. Secretary of State, why do you maintain a high-priority hotel service when health institutions do not meet the minimum conditions? Why don't the current and former government leaders take responsibility for the chaos you caused? You know, Mr Secretary of State, I have repeatedly said that if we ask people today, two thirds of them say that it is the health problem that is the most stressful of Hungarian society and that people, two thirds of them, know that the government is responsible for this. Mr. Secretary, when will we get the right answer to the questions that have been asked? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In the 2019 budget we spend much more, specifically HUF 648 billion, on health care, to ensure and preserve the health of Hungarian people than you have done before. These sources have increased noticeably. It is also due to the fact that, in our administration, yours was not hospitalized, but hospitalized. You have closed the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, Szabolcs Street Hospital and Schöpf-Mere Hospital. On the other hand, we have renovated 77 hospitals across the country, upgraded and expanded to improve the care of patients. You, along with these hospitals, have removed 16,000 active beds, other than these hospitals, if I look at them as a whole, 16,000 beds and have laid off 6,000 medical workers. You're talking about what kind of pay can keep health workers on the field, encouraging them to go to the field. On the other hand, you were not talking about what could keep him on the field, you were taking a month's wages from everyone, and 6,000 medical workers were simply laid off when you were talking about how important it is to have enough healthcare workers in hospitals. As I have already told you in Parliament, you were the only government in the OECD countries that reduced health spending between 2003 and 2010. You stood up and said here why we are not spending more on health at a time when you reduced health spending from among the most advanced economies in Europe alone, while we have shown the seventh largest increase in recent years. While health expenditure in the budget increased by HUF 648 billion, in addition to or in parallel with the cost of public health expenditure, it decreased from HUF 40 million to HUF 20 million. [[15.50]] It also shows your hypocrisy that we've split that amount. You thought it was enough in your own time, that it was good that it was at 40 million forints, now that it is half as much, you say that it is too much. You here, honourable Member, have enjoyed Romanian health care. You don't mean that you'd rather send your own child to a hospital in Bucharest than to a hospital in Budapest, but you don't look down on Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses. You wouldn't choose the hospital in Iaş if a family member needed health care, but rather a Hungarian hospital. Let's say in Romania, health costs are below 5 per cent of GDP, with 7.2 per cent of us. That's the only reason I wouldn't recommend it to you, which, I think, even to a rhetorical turn of events is very weak. If you look at how much we spent on health pay surplus between 2016 and 2018, you will find 128 billion HUF, honourable Member, in the budget. If you look at the gross income of the basic salary and the elements of the mobile wage in the year 2010 was a health worker and nurse with a 4-6 year legal relationship, which is a relatively high degree at the beginning of his career, then he found HUF 159 thousand, now it is 300,000 forints. If you look at how much basic salary a specialist on the field has earned for about 20 years, plus mobile wage elements on average, including allowances in 2010, this was HUF 364 thousand, now it can rise above HUF 800,000 as a salary, gross salary, basic wage and mobile wage elements. That is why the government has been trying to do this in recent years: renovate hospitals, renovate clinics, renovate rescue stations. Today, more than half of the rescue stations are either completely new or renovated in Hungary, and we will continue to do so. If we were to line up, honourable Member, the ambulances we've bought in the last eight years, after you didn't buy almost any ambulances in your last years, it would take this ambulance line from City Park to Gellért Hill. This is what we have done for the health of people, not like you, to introduce a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-105	Thank you, Mr President, I cannot accept it. Mr. Secretary of State said that I wouldn't take my children to a hospital in Bucharest to be cured. You know, Mr. Secretary, as long as we hear scandals in health every week, the last time the children were lying in a ward full of cockroaches, I'll ask you, Mr. Secretary, why don't you go to the state hospital? Why do state leaders, state ministers, ministers have to make use of VIP supplies? You could go to state care, too. And I'm gonna ask you why you need plastic surgery, say, to fund a taxpayer for a member of the government. That's gonna turn out to be who's using it. Why should the Hungarian taxpayer finance his dental care in VIP care, when they get a good salary, they can go to public care, if not, they can go to private and pay for it. Secretary of State, answer me this: why do you use the VIP supply when the Hungarian people do not receive it? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-29-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The culture fight announced by the Orbán regime is on the rise. In recent weeks, the man proposed by Mr Orbán has been appointed to the head of the Operett, and his tender has enjoyed the trust of only 10 percent of the company. And the Nazi-intelligent organ called the Hungarian Times began a cheap and repulsive Jewish act about Endre Ady. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Darido of the Minute Men, it seems to continue here. But while we're at it, I can also say that the next step has arrived: this is the elimination of Tao support for theatres and musical productions. There is, of course, reason: corruption in the system must be eliminated, but on this basis, if they were really worried about public money, Hungarian football would no longer exist, so that I would not be able to detail the suspicious on-calls around tennis and the boxing alliance. The Orbán government, when it comes to tao money, is still deeply unfair. On the one hand, the tao could be used to maintain the 15 000 stadiums of heated lawn, visited by 1500 people every two weeks, and on the other hand, they make valuable cultural productions and creative groups impossible in culture. Today, we do not even know whether the aid obtained this year can be transferred from the aid scheme that has been abolished by one pen stroke or whether there is no information at present that you have spoken here in this case and have been told that this system needs to be changed because there has been abuse. Who abused this system, how much money, did you file a criminal complaint against them? I mean, if you're aware of crimes, you should have filed a criminal complaint, but there's no information. For now, what we're talking about is that we're gonna see a committee handing out tao money, which is likely to lead by fidesz cultural leaders, and they're gonna decide who can create on stage, theatre, music stage, or anywhere else. The Democratic Coalition fears that this is part of the Orbán package, because the Orbán package is not only about austerity, but also about making the whole Hungarian life impossible, the Hungarian cultural life impossible. This is completely unacceptable to the Democratic Coalition. What you're about to do is feed cultural life hand in hand. You will decide what is tolerated and supported production in Hungary today. So we went back to the '70s, '80s, but that's what the Bolshevik governments are like. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I want you to answer: do you know of any crimes and the Tao opportunities you have acquired can be carried over next year? Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-29-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the interpellation by Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You've been a journalist for a long time, which is why I don't have to show you what the . high-quality journalism fee is. I'm not saying this on your resume, I'm saying it's because you obviously know that your colleagues probably don't share it by accident. I don't know if you know why one of the most recent Awards for Quality Journalism was awarded. Well, because two journalists don't know where you put it, the Index and G7 journalists have compiled an article, a series of articles on the serious abuse of lecturer-art tao discounts, and they have been awarded the award for quality journalism. You have just said that we have been talking about the abuse around the tao, well, read your own papers, your own newspapers, honourable Member. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Which one!?]] And if you're saying that someone should come up with evidence, you should also call on the journalists of the Hungarian Orange, the Index, the G7, who have written articles about it, which have been awarded a Quality Journalism Prize, and if you say that anyone who knows about such things and doesn't press charges doesn't act fairly, then tell your Hungarian orange and G7 or index journalism colleagues and attack them, not us here in Parliament. They wrote it black and white in series of articles. I quote to you what you have written about the cultural lake that you are defending, so as a DK representative, you are defending the institution on which the journalists of the Balliberal side have written in recent years: debauchery, horrific, framed public cultural support, a complete business was built for debauchery and backdoors, leading to the total destruction of culture, there are at least half a dozen public-use organizations that are tricking or deceiving to claim up to HUF 1.5 billion a year, and the diluting concert market with Tao is also extremely distorting the Hungarian entertainment industry. But I will continue with these quotes: hundreds of thousands of ratings bluffed hundreds of millions of forints of public money is shown in fake theatres, commercialisation, and it could be continued that these journalists, who at other times are a reference for you, whose articles are to be translated as scriptures for you, what they have said about the Tao system over the past period. [[16.00]] Now, when the government has said that, on the basis of the abuses contained in these articles and for other reasons, because we believe that a more transparent system is needed, we are transforming this system of culture funding, suddenly as if these writings had not even been produced, as if you had not formulated these criticisms, and you were working for the protection of the previous Tao support system from one moment to the next. And by the way, he is accusing people at the beginning of his speech, and I apologize for the fact that he is not a suitable candidate for, say, one of the theatres with a Kossuth Prize, a Liszt Ferenc Prize, and a member of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The reason why there's probably no such people around the Democratic Coalition is probably not around, so please don't insult them, and just because you don't like them for some reason, don't tell me their performance isn't real. Honourable Congressman, The government is determined never to reduce the resources of culture, always to rise. If you look at the past eight years, every year there has been more and more progress in supporting culture and funding culture. These funds, which were previously given to the theatres and performing arts institutions as tao grants, must, in summary terms, continue to be allocated to these institutions, only in a more transparent, proportionate and fairer system for everyone. This is the government's goal: to settle relationships. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Zsolt Gréczy if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Yes! Yes! Correct answer: yes! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-29-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked you two pretty simple questions. If you know there's a crime, but like the press, report it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Go to your index friends.]] It's not just about you, it's about anyone else. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Go to your index friends.]] There may have been such abuse, I won't argue with that. Is there a report? Have you initiated any proceedings against any of the creative workshops? It didn't start. No one has filed any charges on this matter. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] I read stuff like that myself. And that's not the only problem. The problem is, now there's gonna be a committee that's gonna decide how much money people get. So far, there has been cultural achievement in Tao support, who, I think, have behaved fairly, and now they're setting up a committee of 3-4 people who will decide who can receive support and who can't. This reminds me of a very old time, on the one hand. On the other hand, I also had a very simple question: tell me whether the tao subsidies can be carried through these workshops this year [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They got me next year. My third and final words, Mr President, I think my Observer Prize is worth as much, even if it hasn't looked at my biography fairly. Thank you very much. [[Miklós Soltés applauded: Bravo! Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2018-10-29-112	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy did not say if he would accept the answer. [[For signal:]] Thank you, the Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 31 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Antal Csárdi, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, How do health, environmental and rural development aspects prevail in the creation of a 400 kV pipeline between Albertirsa-Kecskemét? It's an address. On behalf of the interrogation representatives, Congressman Csárdi will ask the question of interpellation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The government's regulations on investments that are of major national importance are met. We might think that they are actually for the recovery of the country and are intended to solve the burning problems of the population, but the majority of the priority investments are, unfortunately, only for the enrichment of certain Fidesz-close interest groups or for covering up the wrong decisions of the government, and in the least for the interests of the country's population, the local communities concerned. Nor is the construction of a 400-kilk line between the Albertirsa-Kecskemét, an exception. 'Cause what's going on here? The national spatial planning plan law defines the harmonised spatial order of the country's technical infrastructure networks, including electricity transmission networks and their development. The current law does not include the 400 Kilkolt development phase between Albertirsa-Kecskemét, but the government has more than debatablely decided to renew the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with the new blocks. In addition, although it is a loud branch against the multinationals that undermine the domestic economy, it gives them a number of discounts, including the Kecskemét base for the production of motor vehicles, which needs electricity. Due to Paks and the Kecskemét industrial area, it was necessary to set up a 400-kilot line between Albertirsa-Kecskemét. That would not be a problem, but this could be done in a normal way, by considering the various professional arguments and taking into account the merits of social consultation, but not by chance, my fellow Members. Dear Minister, The arguments in favour of PE/KTFO/37-34/2018 of 29 May 2018 Have decisions No 1 been amended in such a way that the environmental authorisation was granted without the conditions laid down in the first instance decision? The trail, which has been modified several times, concerns protected areas and a multitude of farms; farms where families live; farms that have been developed, among other things, in trust in the rural development strategy, and which now receive only some compensation instead of a secure future. What future awaits these potential victims? These are not individual cases, these are the health environment of 500 families, the future of 500 families. Making it a priority investment for the national economy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In its present form, it is nothing more than debauchery and abuse of power. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-10-29-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member's interpellation question, which was the question of the two, is answered by Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The reason for setting up a 400-kilot cable between Albertirsa-Kecskemét is to increase the security of supply in almost two counties, which appears as a blind spot on the electricity grid map between the Danube-Tisza. In the region, only a large increase in electricity demand can be expected in part as a result of industrial development. The power line and the substation in Kecskemét will clearly be completed in order to ensure the safety of the residential and industrial electricity supply in the Kecskemét region. I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that point 2.4 of the Annex to the Act on the National Spatial Planning Plan, which summarises the power grid's power lines, contains the Albertirsa-Kecskemét power line, and I therefore recommend that the Member be more aware of and read the legislation before making false claims. The investor is Mavir Zrt. According to his information, the planned pipeline does not prevent, but, of course, to some extent, it limits the agricultural work carried out there, the agricultural activity carried out there. The conductive currents of the power line shall be at least 12 metres high at the highest slip point, i.e. when the current is closest to the ground. As a result, normal arable crops and areas can be cultivated with normal agricultural machinery. The restriction is shown by the fact that certain irrigation improvements, irrigation systems cannot be applied, but this is the case in many other parts of the country, and it is not possible to install large fruit trees under the drifts or only with restrictions. Undoubtedly, the area under the columns, which is an area of 80 to 150 square meters per about 400 metres, will fall out of production; this is of the same magnitude for all power lines. [[16.10]] When crossing existing orchards, account is also taken of the fact that, in addition to technical possibilities, there are typically higher columns. For the restrictions, real estate owners are entitled to the compensation provided for by law, and Mavir will comply with this obligation. Honourable Congressman, With regard to health impacts, the wire has been designed to comply with the existing EU Council Recommendation and the corresponding domestic regulation in all cases. As regards the environmental permit, I inform you that in the meantime the notary of the Csemő settlement has issued a statement that the establishment of the power lines is not contrary to the local settlement plan, i.e. the condition laid down in the first instance permit has been fulfilled in the meantime. In summary, it can be concluded that the change of the first instance decision by the second instance authority is intended to ensure compliance with the legislation in force and to strengthen the interests of nature conservation and public health. I would like to thank you, Mr President, and my fellow Members. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. Secretary of State, you have not said one word of substance about the families living there. Secretary of State, you're forgetting the 500 meters of safety that should be respected for health reasons. I've been down this path, Mr. Secretary, and I think you should do the same. I talked to the people there, and I think you should do the same. The rural development strategy and you know it better than I do. [[György Balla: That's true!]] It's not just cropping. When these families moved there, they didn't just grow plants. They keep animals and live there with their children and their families. If this cable is built on this trail, they will all be losers, and their rights to a healthy environment will be completely ignored. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 36 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Dear House, Congressman Pesti Imre, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.. How has the Electronic Health Service Space evolved over a year? It's an address. Congressman Pesti Imre has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Earlier in normal life, if a patient had a disease with which he had to appear several times in several institutions, then the Electronic Health Service Space, in the absence of ESTE, was solely responsible for informing his or her doctor about his or her medical history. He had to carry all the final reports, referrals, artifacts, if any, whether they were lost at home. In the absence of these otherwise important documents, care has been prolonged, and effective care could often be started later. Today, this can be eliminated with the ESZT, since everything is available in one place. The same applies to recipes, paperwork is easily misplaced, while e-precepts are automatically seen by the pharmacist, so that you can give them to your patient. These electronic recipes can then be replaced by e-personals, Tajcards, and a traditional ID card. However, it is important to know that when a paper prescription is no longer required, the patient will have the opportunity to request a paper prescription. A notification system has recently been set up for patients, which allows them to be given an email address on the retail portal eeszt.gov.hu, so that they can be notified of a finding, final report, electronic referral or prescription. Since this started, the number of visitors has increased dramatically, reaching 800-1200 users on a daily basis. The system is particularly user-friendly, it is easy for those who are less than average in IT. Based on the feedback, even an electronic payment or mailing system seems easier to use. From the above, it is clear that an electronic health service has been introduced, implemented by the government, which provides an integrated information system for the whole country, which contributes to fast and efficient medical care. Dear Secretary of State, How has the Electronic Health Service Space helped the work of healthcare workers, and how has it helped to provide effective health care? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised by Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, with some phase delay, but the digital era also arrived in health last November 1st, when this great cloud was created, in which all our data is uploaded, which relates to our health care. However, this huge database, which is created for each individual patient's journey and treatment, is also important from the point of view that we will have a very important database for the separation of public and private health, where we can see the sick roads accurately, we can see exactly what situations are that can be fully justified by the patient's treatment, and which are where some other aspect might have been involved in the system. One important aspect of the separation of public and private health is that what many people say is sometimes the practice of paying in private health, whether in clinics owned by large companies or elsewhere, while the actual treatment, the actual investigation in public health is a practice. Or if there is a complication, it will also be cured in public health through public money, while the various fees have been paid in private health. There are many such examples, which is why it is important that from 1 November, i.e. from next week, private service providers continue to join digital health. By the deadline of November last year, the public service providers joined him. If I can give you a couple of numbers: 110 registered from inpatient establishments, 260 outpatients from various specialist clinics, 3055 from pharmacy and 6759 from home-school doctors registered. That means about 10,000 registered. The accession of private service providers here is about 30 thousand service providers in a total number of different time phases. In the first phase, 700 private operators must join on the basis of the legislation. Of the 700 private operators, there were 448 who at least started something in this administrative process. There were 63 institutions, all of which have done so, that the system will start in practice next week, and although 40 institutions have an accredited system in which they can upload data, only 19 have marketed data so far. There is enormous data traffic in the state system, which is what Mr. President has been referring to. The electronic prescription is between 800,000 and 1 million a day, and so far there have been 500 million, or half a billion data traffic in the Electronic Health Service Space, which has worked well and contains this gigantic quantitative health data, findings, various test results, final reports and recipes. But it seems that private service providers, although required by law from next week, are not very cooperative. Let's hope it's not because I want to hide the fact that, in fact, when patients come to their home, what treatment they receive or what is missing and what happens to the public service provider. Patients are interested in whether they go to a private health institution or to a public health institution, the most important data on their health, their healing, the momentary phase of their illness are always available to the next treating doctor who will examine them in a hospital, if appropriate. [[16.20]] Therefore, it is important that private service providers comply with this. It is therefore extremely dangerous that they have not progressed in this process, and the public institutions, as I said, have succeeded, and 10 thousand institutions operate this space with around 100,000 public users and public institutional users. We hope that health will become more transparent in the future by making it more visible in the digital space how patients are being treated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask Congressman Pesti Imre if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-123	In 2010, the Government programme included the development of health care. Between 2010-2014, we inherited a ruined country, because the country was in debt spiral and about HUF 500 billion was withdrawn from health care. The development of this IT system started in 2014, and we have now come to the point that it has actually been introduced. It is rare that we can boast, but it is an IT system that has also won the recognition of health IT development professionals in the European Union, and the Hungarian system is an example for countries in the European Union that have not yet introduced this IT system. This indicates that this government is on the right track, and this gives us the opportunity to improve the cost-effectiveness of healthcare. I accept the answer, thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear House, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Will the Government finally accept Jobbik's proposal? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor, please.
u2018-10-29-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, For the first time, Jobbik Hungary's Movement submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament two years ago, which included the abolition of the two-year conversion and the final transition to summer time. The governing parties then, and perhaps surprisingly for themselves, supported the inclusion of the proposal in the series, and even the general debate took place here in Parliament. Since then, however, it seems that they have refused to deal with this in the last year and a half, boycotting the continuation of the decision proposal, the detailed debate has not yet taken place before the committee, so it could not be put to a final vote, despite the fact that the vast majority of Hungarians are aware that the two-year shift would be terminated. Since then, we have been justified by time, as the European Parliament and later the European Commission have stated that they intend to abolish this measure, the clock change, throughout the European Union. In the European consultation of nearly 5 million people, 84 percent of respondents said that they consider the two-year shift to be completely unnecessary and harmful. In light of all this, we would also like to know the government's position. At least it is strange that so far we have not heard any reaction or meaningful response from the government, even though in principle the government should declare by March whether Hungary would like to keep the winter or summer time permanently after 2019. Although news has now appeared after my interpellation that some countries want to boycott this European Union initiative, and they do not want it to come into effect next year. Nevertheless, we would like to know what the government's position is on this issue. Jobbik was clearly in favour of keeping the summer time, as it would be more favourable for us as an eastern country, although obviously it is a subjective matter and an individual perception. However, it is a fact that the government should also make a decision on this matter in some way. I would ask Mr Secretary of State if you would like to ask society about this, because it would be best if people could decide for themselves, obviously in coordination with the surrounding countries, whether they would like to keep the winter or summer time after the end of the shift. Following an online survey, we submitted our proposal at the time, and this survey showed that there are more people voting in favour of keeping the summer time, as there would be several days in the winter when it gets dark an hour later in the afternoon. True, the other side of the coin is that it will also be lighted later in the morning; that is why I said that this is a subjective decision. The fact that the current system, the changing of the clock to people's lives, harming their health is a measure that is completely unnecessary. Yesterday, we changed our watches again, hoping for the last time, but unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be the last time. But we would like to know the government's position on this, what the government is planning. We'd like you to make a decision as soon as possible so that the clock switch can be cancelled. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, My response to your interpellation must begin immediately with a clarification. Time and time zones were not the first thought of Jobbik or you, although your party inventing Spanish wax in this case was undoubtedly attempting to take over this issue. Even the man of ancient times tried to adjust the length of sunny hours to his own rhythm. For example, the Romans provided or shortened the length of each hour depending on how long it was clear at that time of year. In early modern Hungary local times were used in individual cities adapted to the sunrise. CHAPTER XX Several times, the century sought the ideal solution in various forms, where introduced, led out, sometimes unified at continental or federal state level, with the use of time zones, winter and summer time. In Hungary, too, periods using and not applying summer time have changed depending on changing conditions and opportunities. However, Congressman, it seems that he does not cease to have the habit of making irresponsible proposals for rash decisions on any subject, asking the government to take premature measures. Honourable Congressman, Summer time and the choice of the time zone are a very serious issue affecting our everyday lives, in which there are many arguments for and against changing the clock, and at least so many considerations can be made with the possible perpetuation of winter and summer times. For example, Hungary's Community transport timetable system is significantly influenced by the time zone that underpins the timetable structure of neighbouring countries, especially the rail sub-sector. Another example could be the area of energy saving. Since 1980, the clock conversion has resulted in a cumulative energy saving of 4,000 gigawattors. Despite the expansion of energy-saving solutions, the calculated savings were 80 gigawatt hours in 2017, which is equivalent to the total annual consumption of 40,000 households. But let's not stop here. Not only in terms of energy or transport, but also in terms of environmental, health, mental hygiene, public security, agricultural, retail, tourism, and even indirectly in terms of fertility or the proper functioning of the justice system, there are links to the choice of time zone and the calculation of summer time. You will certainly realise, Mr President, that a decision with such an extensive impact cannot be taken from one moment to the next without proper preparation, just as, without an appropriate impact assessment, a categorical rejection of the time system with the current clock shift would not be wise. It is no coincidence that the situation at the level of the European Union is not what you have just said in your interpellation. If you had been sufficiently informed, you would know that there have been proposals from Member States in the context of the planned Common Time Reform for 2019 that they should be preceded by consultations until 2021. Honourable Congressman, The government will not decide on the matter of clock change and time zones on the basis of easy political gain. The opposition logic might allow us to take an irresponsible step, but we do represent the interests of the people, and we will take action accordingly, after careful consideration, on this issue when it really becomes timely. Thank you for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-129	Dear Secretary of State, This impromptu history lesson only revealed that the ancient Romans had more brains than the current Hungarian government. [[Peter Cseresnyés: No! Like you.]] In addition, I believe that there are no billions that can be stolen on this subject, but for Jobbik, any topic that disturbs the majority of Hungarian society is important. Most Hungarian society is interested in whether there will be a clock change or not, and whether winter or summer time will be held. [[16.30]] I believe that you are trying to face Brussels on this issue, as in so many other areas, but that is not the issue here. This is a subject that needs to be dealt with uniformly at European Union level, although you, I believe, would do that, as a kind of Pannonian Chuck Norris, you would reset your clocks even if the clock shift was cancelled in the entire European Union, but this is a truly amazing attitude from the Hungarian government. The interests of the Hungarian people should be viewed, not, as always, their own individual self-interests. Or I don't know what interest it is in this case at all, because it is clear that the abolition of a clock change is in everyone's common interest. The Jobbik will continue to fight for this. Thank you very much, I don't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-130	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State did not accept it, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 36 against and 1 abstention. Dear House, This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Mr László Lukács and Mr Lajos Rig, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How credible is the government's policy? Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to answer for his urgent public service. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, or wait for Minister to be present in Parliament.
u2018-10-29-131	Thank you very much, but we will not accept Secretary of State, we will wait for Minister. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-132	Thank you very much. Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group and Members of Mr György Szilágyi, Members of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. On behalf of the questioners, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Prime Minister, asks the question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister! Over the last few weeks, there has been a renewed debate on the need for national security screening. We may agree that the Prime Minister, who is the number one leader of the country, who has the most secrets, the most confidential information, is also the most vulnerable person in the country, since he is the most vulnerable person to blackmail and assault. Yet you, Prime Minister, are the only Prime Minister who has not undergone a national security screening in the last 28 years, even though he has been in this position for the fourth time. You can see that this is a legal and logical nonsense. Here in Parliament, there have been several legislative proposals in this regard, Jobbik raised the need for a D-type screening of the Prime Minister during the campaign period, which would also mean a screening of family members. This was wiped out by the Fidesz representatives. As a matter of fact, Prime Minister, why most of the Fidesz Members are covering for you, what you have to hide. There's a lot of theories about why you're doing this. Some say that he was recruited during his military service in Communist times to provide information about his fellow soldiers. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Shame on you!]] Some say that the Soros Scholarship came to you to sabotage the regime as a kind of chick in this political uplifter. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] . And there are also theories that this is because of hidden foreign bank accounts, or because of the involvement of corruption crimes, you are avoiding national security screening. Prime Minister, I think you should stop avoiding this issue and submit to national security screening. It'll be easier and easier for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2018-10-29-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Just a moment, please. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-29-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are clear and clear laws and Hungarian prime ministers are obliged to submit to them. That's what I do. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-137	Prime Minister! At least in hindsight, he could have told us whether the alleged commie informant past or the Soros Scholarship was a better letter of recommendation for the position of Vice-President of the Liberal Internationale. But I see that you do not want to face this question honestly, even though you should answer very important questions. After all, in recent years, people like Gaith Pharaon, a terrorist wanted by the FBI, financially financing terrorism, have appeared in your environment and in the environment of your family members, a man who operated a joint venture with your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who was your neighbor on Cinege Street, and who owned a joint business with István Tiborcz, your son-in-law, and a joint real estate deal. Mr. Prime Minister, You have to answer these questions. I think it would be much better if you answered these questions, not waiting for foreign services to draw attention to this and send your file, let's say, to you or to the Hungarian society. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Whose behalf are you speaking on?]] Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-138	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-29-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not respond to disparaging, but I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that national security screening and lustration are two different things. All representatives of the first Hungarian Parliament have been subjected to lustration, and from a national security point of view, public-law dignitaries are under constant monitoring of the Constitutional Protection Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: will the castle become a residence of Fidesz? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-29-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, You, Prime Minister, will take the Buda Castle in January and turn it into a fidesz residence. The investment has become a symbol of your domination, unnecessary state luxury and secrecy. László Fat said that moving will be a celebration of democracy. No, Prime Minister, this will be a symbol of fidesz rags. When you were proud of how deep you came, that you were not gentlemen's children, you did not even know how to urinate by reputation.In 2014, Prime Minister felt that urinating was a visitation. Don't forget Antal Rogán, he used to say that he can only rule children, I'm a peasant child, that's what I was born to be. Where are these fidesz peasant children, Prime Minister? ! Fidesz speaks of a saving state, while urizing, stadiums, helicopters, yachts, castles are now characterized by Fidesz. In the meantime, what do we see? We see another Hungary. A Hungary where thousands of Hungarian families are evicted, along with children. A Hungary where every third child grows up in poverty. A Hungary, Prime Minister, where young people are fleeing, every two young people aged 18 years want to go abroad. A Hungary where one in six Hungarian children are no longer born at home, but abroad. A Hungary where Hungarian families no longer want to live, but to flee. Prime Minister! The most important thing for you is to move into the Buda Castle in January. And I would add that the initial costs of 12 billion forints are now tasting 30 billion forints. Prime Minister, is that okay? Why do you want to move to the Castle? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[16.40]]
u2018-10-29-142	Thank you very much. I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-29-143	So much has come up, Mr President, that I do not know which of the 28 questions to answer, but perhaps we should start with a philosophical problem. There is a great difference between national thinking and class fighter thinking, because, in our view, coming from deep is not merit, but a state. It's worth it. You had it, class warrior. It's been classified as a merit. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] We have a very different view of this. We don't decide where people come from, but where they go and what work they do. As far as the specific question is concerned, you must have misunderstood something: I am not moving anywhere, the XII. I live in the district of Cinege Street, and I'm still gonna be there. [[Intercom from the LMP: Pharaon too!]] The jobs of the Prime Minister and the ministers are defined by law, neither I nor the ministers make use of the residence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-144	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, Prime Minister, I'm proud of where I'm from. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Come on!]] You know, I just want to know, Prime Minister, if you could face yourself 30 years ago, what would you think of yourself now when you looked in the mirror, when it was important for you to represent Western values, represent liberal values, represent the people as a young man, when you were proud of how deep you came. How do you think you can accept this kind of urination, which you can endure every day from your fellow Members, from yourself and even from the members of the government, and put it in the image of the Hungarian people every day. Prime Minister, can you really look yourself in the mirror and remember what you were like when you were young and what you represented at the time? Prime Minister, I would very much like [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] you could do that, and sometimes you'd remember what you represented 30 years ago. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-147	I understand, Mr President, that you have a poor conscience in the matter of urination. It is strange, after all, that a left-wing former Communist party, which is now a socialist party, the last three prime ministers of all, was a multibillionaire, so I understand [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: You brought them in well!]] I understand that this circumstance disturbs you, and your frustration is projected on us. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] But please, please, please spare us this. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: They have been enriched by their own performance! They didn't get rich on the people! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as the Castle is concerned, the Hungarian government is committed to restoring historical traditions. The Communists destroyed the Castle because they always thought that the past, history, should be abolished. In fact, in the 1950s, the Communist Party flirted with the idea that the party was moving there, but then only the Workers' Movement Museum was moved there. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: In the Horthy system you wouldn't have been anything!]] There's a renovation going on. You can be sure of that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that we can all be proud of our national heritage, the already renovated Matthias Church, the Fisherman's Bastion, the Castle Garden Bazaar and the other buildings in the next century. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Does the government help foreign exchange lenders? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether you accept the person of the response or wait for the Minister's presence to ask your question. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to await the Minister's presence by asking the question.
u2018-10-29-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When will the restrictive Orbán package be eased by stopping stadium constructions? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hungary is in trouble, Hungarian people are in trouble. The constrictive Orban package is right here on our necks. We've already had to pay hundreds of thousands for a semester in college. They don't call it tuition, but that's what people in the country call it. Now we also know that the Corvinus model, fully paid education, possibly with millions of tuition fees. Pay health is also part of the Orbán package. More and more government actors talk about how Hungarian people reach into their pockets and pay tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands, if they want to heal. Where is the fiery resistance to the 300-forint visitation fee again, against a 300-forint visitation fee? As part of the education and health destroyed by the Orbán government, the austerity Orbán package was also part of the plowing-up of housing savings. At the same time, luxury investments such as stadium construction simply cannot stop. These stadium constructions are famous in Hungary today for sunbathing the grass, they are famous for having a few hundred viewers sitting in these 5-10-20 thousand palaces at times, and sometimes forging these statistics about how many there are, but they are also exposed by the press. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that these stadium investments, which apparently did not reach the sympathy of the people when they stopped, when to try to reverse the tens of billions of forints that have been released here, for example, to support the state of housing savings and generally to use them to relieve the burden on the Orbán package. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-29-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You guys can't give up restrictions. When they're on the wheel, they always do, which is probably why they're always thinking the same thing. There were real restrictions in Hungary. These were when a month's pension was taken from all pensioners, or when a month's wages were taken from all nurses, all policemen, all doctors, and all other civil servants. They were indeed restrictions in Hungary; or when you took away regular child protection support from families or the family tax relief of families with one and two children was taken away. It was indeed a restriction when you abolished housing subsidies, forint loans with interest subsidies. That was indeed a restriction when, as a result, Hungarian families were chased into foreign exchange loans traps to 10,000 and 100,000 numbers. That was indeed a restriction when the price of electricity was doubled and the price of gas tripled, as dictated by foreign investors. That was indeed a austerity when unemployment, which is now below 4 percent, was raised to a height above 11 percent. Honourable Congressman, These periods, your period, were indeed. But when family home creation benefits are already used by 90,000 families and can move to ever-increasing family homes, when one of the lowest personal income taxes is paid across Europe by Hungarian people and Hungarian families, when unemployment is record low, and since the change of regime, female employment and employment in general in Hungary is a record, it is not a time of austerity, but a time when Hungary is finally on its own feet, and not on the basis of the IMF's recipe, but, on the basis of the interests of Hungarian people, it is acting in the interests of Hungarian people, along the lines established in national consultations, in the interests of Hungarian people. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] And if you look back to the left in a large enough way, ask the fellow Member of Attila Mesterházy, who is not sitting there, why he described as the Secretary of State of Ferenc Gyurcsány that there are two problems with sports facilities in Hungary: one is that they are not, the other is that they are in a poor state, these facilities look bad, and they should be extended and renovated. You'll have to ask him that when he gets back. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-155	Well, I don't know, cry or laugh. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks. Interpretings in the same place: We don't know either!]] When Secretary of State Rétvári talks about [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to remind you that the world's most expensive VAT is paid in this country, that's 27 percent. The forint has never been so weak. You drove this country into the currency trap. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government ranks.]] , it was brought by the first Orbán government in June 2001, Járai Zsigmond was the finance minister. Let's never forget it. Let's not forget you guys fooled the pensioners. If the previous government was called for cuts, there was at least a 13th month pension and a 50 percent wage increase. [[16.50]] You promised to return the 13th month's pension. In fact, Prime Minister Orbán promised in 2006 that there would be a 14th month. You have failed to comply. So here's the thing about austerity, I think you'd better be quiet. Secretary of State, I think we need a deep self-examination on this one. Your austerity package is extremely serious for Hungarians, according to the recent statistics of the European Union, 3 million Hungarians live around the poverty threshold. [[Márius Révész:...real wage rise! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-29-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-157	Honourable Congressman, When you read these statistics, you might have read an earlier number. If you are reading the 2017 case, you can see that 1.3 million Hungarians have come out of the danger of drifting to the edge of society, from the risk of poverty, 1.3 million people less have problems with the fact that everyday deprivation is exposed to this immediate danger, honourable Member. And now pensioners get a 29 percent higher pension than in your administration. And even if I cut retirement inflation, we can still see a 10 percent increase in value. And besides, there was pension compensation, there was and there will be a pension premium again this year, and there was a HUF 10,000 Erzsébet voucher for pensioners three times before the holidays. If you could add that up, honourable Member, you could count 130 billion forints of additional benefits that the retired people have received. Compared to that, your prime minister only told the elderly people, especially the old ladies, that I'm sure your old wife could be replaced by a lot of people. Well, so much for the respect of the left-wingers to the elderly. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right! Bravo! Applause in the same place.]]
u2018-10-29-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Lóránt Lóránt Keresztes, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the situation of the dissipating rural areas. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor.
u2018-10-29-159	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Before I ask my question, I would like to refer you back to Mr Group Chief and inform my fellow Members [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Have you fallen apart?]] that tomorrow there will be a chance to vote on the bill on the discovery of the state security past, as LMP has also submitted it for the 18th time. So we're going to vote on inclusion in the series. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your petitioner has quit the party!]] At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister about another subject: the breakdown of rural areas and the disintegration of small villages. I can tell you a recent statistic that, after your eight-year governance, there are still four domestic regions between the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and in eight years, not only have we managed to reduce something from the disadvantage, but the break-off has continued. But we see an even more serious picture when we look at what is happening within the regions. Unfortunately, there have been rural crisis centres, crisis regions, where the population is almost fleeing from large cities, regional centres, because of economic problems and the economic crisis. Over the last five years, the population of Szeged has decreased by 5 percent, the population of Miskolc by 6 percent and the population of Pécs by 8 percent, Prime Minister. But I think it's clear to all of us that the worst-case scenario is small villages. You have rightly criticized the politicians of SZDSZ and accused them of destroying the countryside. This criticism was complete, but it has to be said that the destruction and breakdown of the countryside has reached a shocking level during your governance: in the last eight years, the quality of the lower road network has deteriorated dramatically, and the potential for community transport has decreased. Thus, overall, the possibility for small villages to access the most important public services or jobs has been reduced. You've bled out the local government and reduced the ability of small settlements to defend themselves. My specific question, Prime Minister, is whether you simply failed [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: When will you breathe?]] to stop rural areas from breaking down, or that is the essence of their policy. And have they renounced these areas and given up on the people who live in these regions? Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2018-10-29-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-29-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make it clear that every region of the country is equally important to the Hungarian Government. [[Tamás Sneider: Top priority!]] Moreover, as far as the villages are concerned: if you look over to the other side, Congressman, here, you can see that there are quite a few of us here who come from villages and represent the villagers. But instead of the details, all I'm going to say to you now, if you'll allow me, because you mentioned cities, that the Fidesz-KDNP government freed 2 thousand Hungarian settlements from a debt of HUF 1300 billion. There has never been an example of this in Hungarian history. Debt was accumulated not under our government, but during the government of the socialists who preceded us. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] In the debate on the village, I suggest that the villagers' words should be interesting. I would like to note here the fact that the villagers voted for Fidesz and did not vote for LMP. In fact, in 2018, the government coalition I led in small settlements and villages received more votes than ever before. Thank you for your attention. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2018-10-29-162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-163	Thank you very much. Let me answer to Prime Minister that the hundreds of thousands, the hundreds of thousands of young people who were forced to flee from rural areas because of your policies. [[A statement from the Fidesz: What's going on?]] and now living in western Europe in emigration [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] And they turned you down with their vote. So let's just say, among the young people who migrated to Western emigration forcedly, you are now a small party, you who no longer have credibility. I really represent a large city, the city of Pécs, but Baranya County is a small village area. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if you have spent so much money on the countryside, so much money has been spent on development policy, where is the impact. And let me also note that the Hungarian government did not deprive or relieve the rural area of debt, but the Hungarian taxpayers did. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Seriously?]] This debt was simply spread out among Hungarian taxpayers. [[Interrogation from the ranks of pro-government representatives.]] So this debt was spread among Hungarian taxpayers. But let me ask you one more question, Prime Minister. Instead of taking action, you have started to talk about the program of the modern village. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Hungarian!]] After the program. Modern City. Prime Minister, where are the resources for the. Modern Village programme? [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties: Hungarian!]] What you've been talking about lately? Specifically, there is zero forints in next year's budget for this programme.
u2018-10-29-164	Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first thing I want to do is give you the help of two programs, each one with a name. One is called the "Modern Cities" programme, and the other is called the "Hungarian Village" programme. They both have budgetary resources. As far as these are concerned, I would like to remind you that the most important thing for the villages in the last eight years has been that we have created jobs. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] As long as there is no work, there is no reliable, safe existence and life in the village. So the most important thing was to create jobs, partly with market employment and partly with public employment. Now we are launching a new program, we are not giving up at all, we think it is worth living in a village and it will be worth living in the future. The programme has three main directions: we will provide specific extra support for rural housing, launch a major renovation programme for lower roads, and expand and build kindergartens and crèches. Although I know that LMP is a city party, I am still asking you to support the Hungarian village programme. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-166	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue [[Moore in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] , you want to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Why is Szilárd Kiss, Putin's man in Hungary untouchable? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Attorney General Péter Polt has appointed Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovics to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether you will accept the person of the defendant, or if you will wait for the Attorney General to be here on the terms of your question.
u2018-10-29-167	What I'm going to ask is how the Fidesz puppet's attorney general himself responds to why one of the Fidesz criminals can be led away on a chain of prisoners and why the other one continues to be protected. So I don't accept the identity of the assigned responder. Thank you very much. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Interview from Fidesz: Back off!]]
u2018-10-29-168	Congressman! It seems to continue the tradition of always trying in some form to do a human insult that clearly violates the rules of the house. So I'm warning you now. [[Bence of Turdai nodds. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Mr. Prosecutor General will have to answer your question at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor. [[17.00]]
u2018-10-29-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, A few weeks ago, Greenpeace activists discovered that oily, unpleasant-smelling liquid flows through the undamaged area of the Óbuda Gas Factory and directly into the Danube. Experts took samples of highly dangerous, serious carcinogens, such as cyanide, arsenic, mercury, zinc, ethylbenzene, xyloles or naphthalenes, among the substances directly flowing into the water. Official measurements show that in some cases these concentrations exceed a thousand times the health limit. Due to the low level of water in the Danube over the past period, contaminated groundwater flows directly into the Danube. The problem has now developed to the point that pollution threatens Budapest's drinking water base, so it poses a direct and serious threat to the residents of Budapest. The need for remediation of the 200-hectare area has been known for decades by the capital city, the district government, the Ministry of the Interior, the General Gas and its successor, and the Environmental Authority, however, the removal of the leaking poison has not occurred to date, as the remediation is too expensive according to the authorities. Last week I presented a budget amendment of HUF 10 billion, which could be used to remedy this damage, and there is plenty of resources available from extraordinary government reserves to solve this very serious problem. So I ask the Prime Minister whether the government will continue to delay the action and save the damage relief money now that we know that the carcinogenic substance will soon be in the drinking water, causing a direct threat to the population. Can the people of Óbuda and Budapest count on you to support my budget proposal and start the damage relief from it? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-170	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I would like to ask the Prime Minister with respect to his reply. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2018-10-29-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government has requested the necessary information from the authorities, and so I can inform the public of the country: the Pest County Government Office and the Metropolitan Waterworks tell us that Budapest's water supply is safe, according to the Pest County Government Office, there is no water base supplying the population in the Óbuda Gas Factory. Budapest's population is supplied with drinking water by the wells of Szentendre and the water base in Csepel Island, so that the drinking water consumption of the population of Budapest is not compromised and the drinking water supply of the capital is safe. Please refrain from spreading rumors. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-172	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-173	Prime Minister, I understand, so you think the carcinogen can go to the Danube. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's not what he said!]] because perhaps some of the population of Budapest will receive drinking water not directly from there, but from Szentendre... [[Németh Szilárd István: No, no one gets the drinking water from there, he just said! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to ask the Prime Minister, not Szilárd Németh. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] I wonder if the Prime Minister will tell you to go... [[Németh Szilárd István: There is no water base there! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Shut the fuck up! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, really! [[Intruders, loud noises.]] In English, can a carcinogen flow into the Danube... [[Noise.]]
u2018-10-29-174	Ladies and gentlemen, The head of the faction has the floor!
u2018-10-29-175	Why haven't you done anything in the last nine, nearly nine years while you know that this carcinogen is constantly flowing into the Danube? We see it better now because the water level is low, but the water level will be low more and more often, there is toxic mass in the soil in 200 hectares, which neither István Tarlós nor you have done anything about. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For the last eight years. This is certainly not safe for the residents of Budapest, and it is certainly dangerous for the Hungarian people.
u2018-10-29-176	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2018-10-29-177	Mr President, It is my job to ensure that the Hungarian public is aware of the facts against the unwarranted rumors, so I respectfully inform the House that the staff of the Water Administration of the Metropolitan Disaster Management Directorate carried out inspections, and then the Metropolitan Waterworks issued a communication containing the following: water quality has been examined several times in view of the low water level in the Danube in recent months, and according to their test results, the measured values of the parameters tested remain well below the limit. [[Szabó Timea: That's not true!]] [[Szabó Timea: That's not true!]] Budapest's drinking water supply is safe, the drinking water provided meets the strict requirements in all respects. (Szabó Timea: That's not true!) I ask the public of this country to take note of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-178	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Hubay, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Tens of thousands of illegal immigrants near Hungary. What does the Government do to ensure the safety of Hungarian people and the protection of our borders? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-179	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Last week, reports have revealed that nearly 100,000 illegal immigrants have gathered on the Bosnian-Croatian border. This means that tens of thousands of angry people want to enter the territory of the European Union without a credible identification of themselves, even at the cost of violence. The threat to Hungary is not yet immediate, but extremely close, as it is only a few miles from the border between Hungary and the Schengen area. Hungary had to experience once before in 2015 what it was like to be attacked by a crowd of aliens on our police officers and soldiers, and to try and force themselves to cross the state border. As we have heard from the news, it would be no different now, since an angry part of the crowd has attacked the officers who control the security of the Bosnian-Croatian border. As it turned out, the instigator was an illegal immigrant of Iranian origin. I think it is of particular importance that the government continues its anti-immigration policy and guarantees the security of the Hungarian people. However, it is essential to have a sufficient number of well-prepared human resources and professional technology along the southern border area. There is a serious danger that tens of thousands of illegal migrants will again storm our southern border and destroy our lands and occupy our roads and spaces. In view of all this, I ask what the government is doing to protect our southern border area and to guarantee the safety of people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the information available, there are currently about 70,000 migrants on the Balkan route moving northwards and heading towards Hungary, so on the proposal of the Minister of Interior, the government has taken the following measures to strengthen the Hungarian-Croatian border in order to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary. The Minister of the Interior has imposed increased border controls on entry traffic in the external Schengen border sections of Hungary [[Gergely Harvesto: What did you do, put up another fence?!]] , with one field department we have confirmed the current Hungarian-Croatian border personnel, border fighters are carrying out increased patrols, the police are carrying out increased depth control activities, and these measures are supported by enhanced aerial reconnaissance activities. The government has provided an additional HUF 24 billion for the effective implementation of the tasks related to the management of extraordinary migratory pressure in the last week. These measures also demonstrate that Hungary can and can react immediately to a changed migration situation, as in 2015 the Hungarian government acted immediately. The government will preserve the results achieved, not hand over the rights of border protection, protect Hungary, protect the Hungarian people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-183	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It calmed me down, but I think it calmed down not only me, but all Hungarian people, as you say, and the experience proves that the Hungarian government is doing everything to protect our southern borders and the Schengen area. On the other hand, we must also draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian electorate has entrusted us at the time, and we must protect their interests, that we must not be allowed to be forced by the bureaucrats in Brussels to force us to the Willkommenskultur by various means, and, by the way, to bring our thousands of years of European Christian culture into the mud. So it is our duty to protect the country, protect the borders of the country and protect the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2018-10-29-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State, please.
u2018-10-29-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Hungary does not allow a jott of border protection. Hungary will not be an immigrant country. They do not want to stop immigration in Brussels, but to manage immigration. In full compliance with EU and Hungarian laws, the Hungarian police effectively protect Hungary's borders and effectively protect the Schengen border of the European Union. The police, border fighters, combined with the military, can reliably block experiments like that at the Bosnian-Croatian border. Hungary remains and remains one of the safest countries in Europe and the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A month ago, I asked Mr. Prime Minister here about his private-luxury travels, his luxuries on a private plane, and you replied that he had been accepting such luxury gifts for 30 years, and that he would continue to accept such gifts in the future. This is not what we used to do in the last eight years, but I have to admit: Prime Minister has kept his word, because he has been to London, Athens and has been to Thessaloniki for the past month. [[Intercoms from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] games. The question is whether he went here with these machines, which were discussed with private jets. In fact, Prime Minister, to show the people and the opposition that he could do anything, even Mary Schmidt and the family's new business partner, Adnan Polat, took him on these trips. In the last month, we have also noticed that the system continues to work, as you not only receive gifts from István Garancsi, but you also give gifts to István Garancsi, because in the last month István Garancsi has won additional public procurements and public funds. In the last month he awarded István Garancsi his company with the award of the best Hungarian company, and István Garancsi can build a sports hall in Székesfehérvár for HUF 26 billion. 26,000 million! Just to see the proportions of what can cost 26,000 million in a sports hall: this is the same as the entire Fáy street sports facility, in which a handball hall, a volleyball hall and a stadium are built; plus the construction of the stadium in Diósgyőr; plus the National University of Public Service, where sports hall, swimming pool, shooting range and outdoor sports fields are implemented, it costs the same as a sports hall to István Garancsi. Prime Minister! You agree with me that in this story, you and István Garancsi cannot assume that corruption [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] there is no present that there is no. [[Defiance.]] that you may have been involved in corruption with István Garancsi at the moment. Please, do you still think it's an appropriate condition for you to accept such gifts from him? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-188	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor.
u2018-10-29-189	We could consider it a mistake, but let's be benevolent. The Prime Minister cannot award any award to anyone who does business because there is no such government prize. I understand you were referring to the prize awarded by the Watcher magazine. On the other hand, it is interesting that you already know the winner of the investment plan in Székesfehérvár that the government has not yet made a decision about. Congratulations. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] There's a plan from the Székesfehérvár municipality. This hasn't been in the government meeting yet. There's no decision at all that's going to happen. It's not like you're in this shape or any other way. I don't know when. And it's definitely not about when we're gonna sign up for public procurement and who's gonna win it. So I'd like to inform you that all the facts you've brought up in your comment are lacking the basis for reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-190	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-10-29-191	Prime Minister, I'm still very sorry that you don't feel impolite that such gifts...
u2018-10-29-192	Congressman!
u2018-10-29-193	...to accept me as the leader of this country. By the way, as the leader of a country where it is good to know that three and a half million people live in poverty, two and a half million people live in extreme poverty, 250,000 children starve, and you are on such luxury trips. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] The problem, Prime Minister, is that your attitude to this luxurious lifestyle is a very bad precedent. In NER's system, you're seen as an example of your behavior. That's why the NER oligarchs you fattened up from public money prefer to travel with these luxury private machines. Last time I checked, your friend, his business partner's wife, Andy Vajna's wife, even took her cat to America with a luxury machine to be treated there. Prime Minister! I believe that in this country, where I told you how many poor people there are, you're using a luxury private machine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Traveling to watch matches, it's just outrageous! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Shame! That's right!]]
u2018-10-29-194	Congressman! I said I didn't want to take the floor. These terms aren't relevant! [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Which one? The outrageous one?]] The Prime Minister is entitled to a quick rejoinder. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-29-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Not all relationships were clear to me. For example, what does any Hungarian citizen's cat have to do with me? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But speaking of kittens, feel free to contact Gábor Vona, I advise you. [[There's a lot of information in the pro-government benches.]] I will repeat my previous position in principle. Every time, every time a Hungarian sports club, athlete, artist, scientist or Hungarian entrepreneur attends an international event, I will always go there if my work allows me to do so. That's what I've been doing, and I'm gonna keep doing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What changes in the tax system are expected in 2019? As I have already mentioned, Minister Tállai has appointed Mr András State Secretary as a response to the urgent public service mission. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman János Harghitai has the floor, please. [[Dr. János Harghitai's microphone doesn't work.]] I would like a microphone for Congressman János Harghitai, because his microphone is still wrong, so I would like a moving microphone. [[The Office Commissioner will put a microphone in front of the speaker.]] Thank you very much. I'm gonna wait for the mike to go into place.
u2018-10-29-197	Since this is the second such meeting, I would like to ask Mr President to take a look at it.
u2018-10-29-198	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm asking for time to be restored. Mr János Harghitai has the floor.
u2018-10-29-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Eight and a half years ago, in 2010, when the current tax system was introduced, we hoped to create a tax system that was stable, long-term, and at the same time to make the necessary changes to this tax system. This was also important in order to finally have a stable tax system for the country, because before that, we used to think that tax rules had changed every year, without a concept, and that all economic damage had been suffered by the country at the time. Perhaps if I were to recall the most important changes in the system of rules in the tax system of these eight and a half years, I would definitely mention the changes in the personal income tax system. We have created a single-key system, and this one key has been constantly reduced from 15 to 16 percent. Similarly, we simplified the corporate income tax. We have created one of the most competitive systems in Europe by taxing companies by only 9%. We have always set out to do tax simplifications in addition to continuous tax reductions, because if we can do this, this will increase the competitiveness of the tax system. We have always put families and small and medium-sized enterprises in the tax system's focus. There are also such movements in the tax system already adopted for 2019, and even the tax law that is now before the House tomorrow contains such changes. On the condition of my question, I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to highlight the most important features of the tax system in the tax year 19 by considering its own aspects. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the changes that we are going to vote on now. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, answers the Member's immediate question. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor. [[17.20]]
u2018-10-29-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The change in the tax system in 2019 will be a subsequent change, as it fits into government policy, government tax policy, the essence of which is the following. On the one hand, to create a personal income tax system to encourage people to work; on the other hand, to encourage children to take up work; and, on the third, to reduce public burdens to keep as much money as possible for people, for businesses; to reduce administration, people's time and energy for taxation. This is how the tax system will change in 2019. I will give you some examples, for example, the tax relief of families with two children will increase by HUF 5000 per month, so this will now be HUF 40,000 per month. But as an example, the VAT rate for ESL and UHT milk is reduced to 5%. As every year, more food VAT rates have been reduced over the past year. I also mention as an example the tax reduction, the reduction of the public burden, that in the future all retail transfers will be free of transaction fees up to HUF 20,000. If we turn to tax changes in businesses, the most important change is that the threshold for the tax exemption will increase from 8 million to 12 million HUF. This will affect some 600,000 businesses. They basically lose tax, they don't have to worry about VAT, and this threshold will be the same as the kata threshold. For so many businesses, 600 thousand entrepreneurs, we are essentially eliminating their tax administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman János Harghitai. See if your mic's working, Congressman. Turn your microphone a little bit, thank you.
u2018-10-29-203	The tax system is based on the revenue side of the budget, so it is not possible to make frequent changes to this tax system, and obviously it is not justified. After 2008, we took over the governance of a country in bankruptcy, and we managed to overcome this bankruptcy. Today, the country has a constantly growing economy, which is based, among other things, on this competitive tax system. The Christian Democratic Group has already supported the government's efforts to focus on the family tax system and the taxation of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. In this respect, I am looking forward to tomorrow's tax change debate, and we are proposing to the government that it should continue on this tax policy path, which is the basis for our results. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-29-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to continue with the major changes. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I would like to highlight the new tax regime for pensioners, since in the future, pensioners will only have to pay personal income tax, no contributions, and the employer will not have to pay any contributions. Allow me to mention the electronic statement, although it is not being introduced now, because it has been working for two years now and we will, of course, continue to develop this. Just this year, for example, by the deadline for tax returns in May, more than 2 million people did not have to do anything with their tax returns, accepted the calculation and the declaration that the tax authorities had done for them. I think this is the real reduction in administration, and this is the way we're going to go. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why do they not help the region for which it is really important? It's an address. Congressman László Varga has the floor, please.
u2018-10-29-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In the spring, Fideszes in Borsod County and Miskolc have often said that the key to development is for people to choose a pro-government representative, because if they don't, they won't get adequate development resources in the region. Accordingly, many have made their decisions despite their experience and life situation. After all, in the first four years of their government, you have mostly completed the improvements that were started before 10 in the region, if they have not been stopped. In the past four years, a package was actually offered to the county seat, Miskolc and the Miskolcs, the development of the Modern Cities programme in the city, but nothing seems to be happening yet, there are incredible delays. In such a situation the Miskolcs and the Borsodii were struck as cold showers, that despite the news that had been heard in the background for weeks, the new factory of BMW could not be completed in Miskolc, but in Debrecen, even though Miskolc has much more serious technical and mechanical traditions. That is why I am asking Prime Minister whether they have tried to make it conditional in the negotiations with BMW that if the investment is supported by some experts over the next four to five years by up to HUF 30 billion, this will cost them at least one area for which there is a much more serious breakout opportunity. Have you tried to use your personal influence or perhaps your contacts in Bavaria in addition to the location in Miskolc, Borsod, or have the rumors been true that you argued otherwise? How many times have you or any government in Miskolc been talking to anyone in the city of Miskolc, or how have the Fidesz Members of Parliament acted before the election of the site? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Prime Minister, when are you going to make any progress in the development of Miskolc and Borsod counties?
u2018-10-29-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr President's question will be given by Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-29-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to make it clear once again that every settlement is equally important for the Government of Hungary, as required by the Constitution and as dictated by our hearts. So is Miskolc. You know I personally helped several investments in Miskolc. Only in the days has the Hungarian government made two serious decisions concerning the city of Miskolc. Although the amount of resources required for the renovation of the castle in Miskolc exceeded the planned amount, the government examined this, approved it, and we also approved the investment in the bath. These are two huge investments for the city of Miskolc, and in the city of Miskolc, I do not think they should be ashamed. To your comment on whether it is worth choosing a pro-government representative in a city because then there are improvements, I can say that this is not the case. You are the best example of this, since you were a member of Miskolc during the previous term, and we brought a lot of improvements to Miskolc. It did not bother us at all that you, as an MSZP Member, were representing the Miskolcs, which made the investment decision, the two investments mentioned above, and we took the investments there. So this perception, as you may have experienced on your own skin, probably doesn't correspond to reality. As far as the competition for investments is concerned, I understand that Hungarian cities are competing with each other, but I would like to draw attention to the local patriotity that sometimes it is easy for them to turn into national narrow spaces, and in this competition Miskolc did not compete with Debrecen, but Hungary with Slovakia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-210	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman László Varga. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I was there myself when he made an announcement in April 15 about the. Modern Cities. That was three and a half years ago. The investments you've just told me have not been launched since. We don't know the reason for the delay. In any case, during your administration, this is the package that has been offered to the Miskolcs, and nothing of these has yet been implemented. What you said in connection with BMW, I cannot appreciate other than that you did not answer specifically these questions that I asked. I ask you to answer: how the city administration acted, how it lobbyed, and did the Fidesz representatives of the region do their job in order to get this investment to the right place, with the fact that in the last few weeks there has been such informal information that the fact that this investment is going to Hungary has been decided. [[17 .30]] Of course, I could argue for a lot of other things. I asked you a question to see if you'd give a damn about Borsod County or if your local people were incompetent. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It makes me very sad that the answer to both is yes. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, I would also ask you to try to expand the props of your expressions and use a different synonym. Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-213	Dear fellow Member, I suggest that if you allow time, you turn to the press of the decision on the BMW investment in Slovakia. You'll understand how this fight went down. As for the developments in Miskolc, you are certainly right. In order for improvements to be made in your presence and in the agreements signed with the city of Miskolc during the period of your representative, there will be a breakthrough in 2019. You are aware of the situation of the Hungarian construction industry, and all previous tenders will be exceeded, so they will need to be examined at government meetings individually. There is a rule as to when and how much more investment can be made. Almost all developments cost more now than they did three years ago. However, as far as the substance is concerned, I would say that if we look at regional distributions in Hungary, then the government will find in its decision that we supported 16,000 projects in the eastern part of the country, worth HUF 3000 billion, 11 thousand projects in the Western part of the country 2,400, so we took more money to the east, and we supported 8,000 projects in the eastern part, while in the Western part 6 thousand companies were supported. It is therefore clear that, in the context of the East-West parts of the country, investments are doing the right thing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-214	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now it's 5:32 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. We're gonna take a two-minute technical break, and then we're gonna get back to work. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Since Mr János Hargitai's microphone is now in order, because it has been repaired, we are now discussing the inclusion of proposals in the series. Dear House, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the need for accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office H/871. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. First, I would like to give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and many of the prominents of Fidesz did not remain in this Chamber, as they are also particularly affected by the issue that we will be debating in the next few minutes, namely: the subject of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the question of joining the organisation. Unfortunately, at committee level, Fidesz pro-government representatives rejected this proposal, and on the basis of statements from the last few weeks, we have no illusions that their position has changed in this regard, but I think it is very important to have a substantive debate on this issue here in plenary, as the majority of Hungarian society also believes that Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office is important and forward-looking. This statement is based on a recent poll, which showed that eight out of ten Hungarians believe that our country should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office in order to reduce corruption in the use of EU funds. Of course, from a fidesz side and from the government's leading politicians every time, it is said that this is a sovereignty issue, thus eliminating and sweeping this initiative off the table. It must be made clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not true at all, this is a lie, as there were indeed different ideas in the past, but the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office resulting from the enhanced cooperation procedure would only cover the use of EU funds. There is now a debate on whether this competence should be expanded in relation to terrorism at some level, but I think that, even with this initiative, this initiative could still be supported, because you can benefit from the EU's money, but you think that there is no way that an organisation not related to Hungary, in this case the European Public Prosecutor's Office, will interfere with how this is being used, in particular, with theft of this. After all, we can see that the various state authorities are part of the NER, and the Hungarian prosecutor's office is covering for the government for the theft. As regards the use of EU funds, we can already see, on the basis of the research data mentioned above, that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society is of the opinion that they are not being used properly, and Jobbik believes that it would be important for our fair compatriots to benefit from EU support, and not only from a small circle of oligarchs linked to you, but also for the Hungarian families to benefit from it. You have announced the year of families, and in this connection you are trying to set up all your actions in such a way that it serves the welfare and advancement of Hungarian families, but what we can see is that you are already risking EU funds coming to Hungary for next year and, moreover, for the next EU budget cycle, even more. In the event of the introduction of the rule of law mechanism, Hungary will have much less money in the next seven years' planning period, and in this way much less money will be made available for measures to improve health, education, the social sphere and the situation of Hungarian families, regardless of the age group. Of course, you are not interested in this, because the basis of your policy, one of the pillars of your governance is the service of your friends and corruption, which determines every step of your action, which is why you are shutting down from the enhanced cooperation procedure in which 22 Member States participate. In Central and Eastern Europe, only the Poles are not, and overall, there are still countries that are not involved in cooperation in justice and home affairs. So it is an outrageous, cynical and deceitful position of the government that the oligarchs linked to the Prime Minister's circle and the mafia network that has been built here in Hungary are trying to get their hands on all the EU funds, and in order to remain this way in the future, you are not willing to take the step, as I have said, to advance Hungary in the interests of our fair and honest fellow Hungarians, the Hungarian families, to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office to show at least that you have an interest in fighting corruption. [[17.40]] But, of course, we also support any civil society initiative that calls for accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, especially the European Citizens' Initiative aimed at reducing fraud and misuse of EU funds. We will send an e-mail to membership in this regard in the days, and we will collect the signatures in an organized form, so that we can achieve meaningful steps to curb corruption, if we cannot expect the government to do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I will look forward to the pro-government contributions, especially in this debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-29-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible, within a time frame of 2-2 minutes, for one representative from each group and for the first independent Member to speak. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I would like to start by speaking to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-29-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to upset my better fellow Member, I do not think anyone from the benches of Fidesz will comment. We are used to this, that after the boss leaves, they no longer feel that they should do the work in Parliament for which the voters sent them here. I think that it is very important, both as opposition representatives and on the part of the MSZP, that we join this initiative in any way, which we have basically already done, because we have been collecting signatures for days in connection with joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I would recommend to the Fidesz Members that they sometimes go to a desk like this and see how people feel about this. Not only does the survey show that two thirds of people do agree with this and would be surprised: even two thirds of Fidesz voters say that it would be necessary to investigate the fact that in the case of European tax forints, which include Hungarian people's tax forints, they know which forints go to corruption, they are subject to crime, and what are the tax forints that are fine. I think that you would be faced with this right now in relation to the collection of signatures, and if you ask people, in the five most important problems that are being raised in relation to Hungary, besides health, education and poverty, corruption is in Hungary in the first five. And I don't know if you know that corruption is linked to Fidesz, to a large extent linked to the Fidesz-KDNP government in Hungary today. So I think there's nothing else to say but to support it. And I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that you were once the top fighters for this, that you were the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] let us join, and in Hungary we do need to examine that the tax forints go to the right place and are spent as European citizens expect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Since its entry into Parliament in 2010, the LMP has continuously used all means to combat corruption, whether it is a parliamentary instrument, Parliamentary proposals or legislative proposals, or other options and entitlements belonging to parliamentary rights. We also consider this initiative to be very important, of course the LMP faction will support the inclusion of the subject series. Reading the proposal, I can tell you honestly that I did not feel that the wording was radical and ambitious enough, but at the same time I liked very much the introduction of Mr Bana. Here I felt that the weight of this matter had indeed appeared; it was certainly more appropriate for my taste. Indeed, we see this problem as saying that the government does not wish to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, it is not just a suspicion that EU funds are being used in a transparent manner here. I think it is quite clear to everyone that corruption is at record levels, historical heights, and virtually a significant part of these resources has been simply stolen and others have been used inefficiently or inefficiently. This has basically taken away the chances of future generations. It has already been mentioned that we have not been able to reach the EU average in recent years, so it is clear that these funds have not been used correctly or used for other purposes than they should have. Using the resources, Hungary's economy could not be prepared by the 21st century. The challenges of the century. In this way, we can say that they have practically committed treason, because it is a direct consequence that hundreds of thousands of young people were forced to migrate from Hungary. Therefore, in every respect, Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office is justified, since the attitude of the Hungarian authorities to fight corruption is all expectations, all ideas are outdated, and we have all experienced this. I would also like to point out that the LMP is in favour of this initiative and is in favour of any civil initiative or political initiative that will help to achieve some kind of stronger control over the use of EU funds, which is why, of course, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The LMP also supports this particular European Citizens' Initiative. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-29-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Before I speak to Congressman Bence Tordai, I respectfully ask all of you to sign up for a proper speech, not for two minutes, because I cannot follow the order accordingly. Thank you very much. From the Group of Dialogue, it is up to Congressman Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Colleagues, We were very pleased to see Jobbik taking the initiative in anti-corruption activities, and that they too, just like all opposition parties and practically everything, not only opposition, but all Hungarian voters would support us to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is worth looking at how much money is involved, and where it lands, instead of what goals it serves. If you look at European resources alone, it is 300-400 billion forints a year stolen by fidesz oligarchs, stromones, Fidesz criminals and similar animal species. This HUF 300-400 billion would have a better place, especially when it is clear that the Orbán austerity package will be the victim of all Hungarian families and especially all Hungarian young people. When they subtract, let's say, that 70 billion forints a year from supporting house savings, they really take away the dream of hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians from having a home of their own, or even millions of families from expanding or renovating their homes. And that 70 billion is still a fraction of what's being stolen, and other sources need to be touched. They're lonesome in health care, higher education, so you don't have to spend too much on those. Only around 1800 billion forints have been withdrawn from health care since 2010, which is already close to 200 billion per year, and even that is not enough, even these cuts do not cover the amount you are stealing from EU funds. It must also be removed from higher education, closing the doors of higher education, the possibility of further education, and thus the future of Hungary. But it's not expensive for you either, because the point is to keep enough resources to steal for your friends. And Hungarian society suffers from a tough policy of austerity at your hands. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2018-10-29-222	From the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató is next, please.
u2018-10-29-223	Dear House, The proposal itself is very simple, if you can say that, since it is very clearly initiating a substantive debate in the House on this issue, and then the necessary legal steps are being taken to enable Hungary to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. You refer to the fact that Hungarian constitutional rules do not allow this, but there is no obstacle to this proposal, I am sure they will not only receive a two-thirds majority, but also a three-thirds majority. We will also be happy to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law, if this is deemed necessary, in order to ensure proper, transparent control of the spending of EU funds in Hungary and to reduce the huge risk of corruption that your governance represents. Of course, you say that this is a matter of sovereignty. I understand that, but when we entered the European Union, we agreed to practice our sovereignty with the European Union on certain issues, and fellow Members, if they do not fear Hungarian sovereignty when they ask the European Union for money when they spend European taxpayers' money, do not be afraid even when European taxpayers and European institutions want to check how you spend this money. You also say that there is no need for a European Public Prosecutor's Office here, because, on the one hand, there is no corruption and, on the other hand, if there is, by chance, as it has just been revealed today, it is revealed by the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. If that's the case, then there's nothing to be afraid of. Then you are free to support entry into the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and you are free to support this proposal for a decision. But if you vote against this tomorrow, it means that there is corruption, and you are defending this corruption! Tomorrow, any vote against a series of articles will be considered a confession. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2018-10-29-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unlike my fellow Member, Bangón, I still hope that someone from the pro-government ranks will comment on this proposal for a resolution. Hope is the last thing that dies. I'm actually wondering what really changed in the benches of Fidesz-KDNP since 2009, because if someone looks at what you campaigned for in the 2009 EP elections, then there is support for the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the programme. What has changed, honourable Members, since 2009? It is just not that you are in government now, and you have a lot to hide, because, as has already been said here, the European Public Prosecutor's Office would be nothing more than examining the use of EU funds. In this, as we know, there are currently two current cases, not only would they be looking at the 4th metro investment of the Balliberian era, but the European Public Prosecutor's Office would also play a major role in the detection of the Elios scandal linked to the Prime Minister's son-in-law, and this could be very unpleasant for you. However, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is an issue in which we should stand for transparency and transparent spending, and cohesion funds could indeed contribute to increasing Hungary's competitiveness and productivity and bringing Hungary back to the Western European countries, which was set as a goal at the time of our accession to the European Union. And while we are talking about sovereignty here, a number of people have already spoken about the issue of sovereignty, we would have liked to have fought to defend sovereignty when in 2007 you, together with the socialist government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, voted unread in favour of the Lisbon Treaty, which provided for the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Then they would have liked to have taken action to defend sovereignty, not now, not now, not now, or even twelve years after the events. Shame on you! This can be corrected by supporting this proposal for a resolution tomorrow. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-226	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Tibor Bana if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Tibor Bana: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2018-10-29-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support of opposition groups. And I am confused that neither the Fidesz nor the KDNP benches were willing to share any thoughts with us about the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I thought you could afford at least one good lineage in this case. As we have seen on the recording of N1TV, National Television, their mayor of Nagykáló referred to George Soros and the Sargentini report in connection with the theft of EU funds. According to this, the Hungarian corruption cases with regard to EU grants are also linked to George Soros and the Sargentini report, and you and your local people and your kings have nothing to do with it. Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, has already pointed out that your attitude is completely false, as the accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office was included in their 2009 European Parliament electoral programme, and this was only one year before their accession to the 2010 Government. But the situation has changed, and now serving your own oligarchs and buddies is your top priority, and you've taken this off the table, and you think you need to represent a completely different attitude in order to maintain a mafia network that's connected to you. Their national consultation on the future of Hungarian families will be launched soon. I think that this should also include how Hungarian families stand with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, since, on the basis of the above-mentioned polling data, they clearly support the transparency of the processes relating to EU resources and their use should take place in a transparent manner. Unfortunately, in the case of Hungary, we can see that many of our honest compatriots leave this country, emigration is one of the biggest, if not the biggest, problems. By the way, many do so because of corrupt governance and the atmosphere here. This is a shameful achievement for you for the last eight years. This should be changed, and in the vote tomorrow, we will find out whether you are on the side of friends, corruption, or if you are on the side of our honest compatriots, the Hungarian families. Of course, we have no illusions, so we'll see how they decide according to their conscience in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-228	Thank you very much. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the laws necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, For the first time, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Unfortunately, it is also a tradition here in the last seven years that when we discuss the bill on transparency in the past of state security and the inclusion in the series of subjects to at least debate it, there are fewer than ten pro-government representatives in the Chamber. That's the way it is right now. At the same time, I hope that at least some will speak out against the preventive debate and try to defend the honour of the mundé, which is, of course, an almost impossible task. Let us recall that I am talking about the process that started a week ago, the next stage of this process is now. In 2010, a two-thirds majority was obtained in the Parliament and you set a deadline for yourself, which promised to submit a bill that would make the past of state security transparent until the deadline had passed. This deadline has been set until the end of November 2011, but this task has not been completed. Following this, András Schiffer, the then leader of the LMP, submitted a bill aimed at this, i.e. the publicity, the real transparency of the state security past. You voted against this without debate at the time. In total, András Schiffer tried to re-submit this bill 12 times, and he submitted it, but you voted it out every time without debate, and never gave any substantive criticism, or gave the opportunity to mature this bill in a debate by the Parliament, nor made an alternative proposal. So they didn't really do anything to enable the Hungarian people to face the past of state security, what happened here at the time of the change of regime. The LMP has continued this tradition, and for the 18th time this extremely important law will be brought before the Parliament; I repeat, you have not submitted an alternative proposal and have not allowed the Hungarian people to know what happened at the time of the regime change, how the former state security maintainers have networked the regime change, the change of regime parties, and how this kind of network has affected public life to this day. I note, for the sake of order, that each time, all 17 times before, there were brave Members of Fidesz and KDNP, who, after all, supported the bill against the faction discipline; I hope that now there will be more than ever. So, for the record, I wanted to say that there were such brave Members among you. Clearly, it is necessary to know the names of those who controlled this particular oppressive system, who were the leaders and maintainers of it. We need to see how these people were able to rely on their former information to become part of public life as politicians, or how they could use their former influence, power, and information at their disposal to gain economic advantage. In particular, our proposal would solve a number of problems that you have yet to remedy. For example, the National Remembrance Committee, set up by you, would require this proposal to review everyone who has exercised public authority from the time of the change of regime and to publish a report on everyone who has exercised public authority. With regard to Prime Ministers, Ministers, State Secretarys, Members of Parliament and Mayors, it is also entirely legitimate that the Hungarian people expect us to see clearly who has been involved in the state security past since the change of regime. It is very important that this proposal ensures that those involved in the past of State security are not able to fulfil a public authority function today. That doesn't bother you that it's happening right now. There were several precedents, even in your government there was a secretary of state involved in this. It is very important that this bill intends to have a continuous online publication of state security documents. You didn't take care of that either. It is also important to create that there is no absurd situation in which individuals who have proven to be active agents receive legal personality lawsuits against historians. So there are countless unsolved tasks, and this is not only about exploring the past, but also about seeing the present more clearly, and seeing clearly what determines today's Hungarian public life. My fellow Members, you have rejected me 17 times now, I am talking about the pro-government Members, and I am talking about the inclusion of this bill in this series of articles. [[18.00]] They ran from the debate 17 times. You'll be able to vote again tomorrow for the 18th time. We consider it very important for the Hungarian people to see who still believe that Fidesz-KDNP would be two anti-communist forces if it were possible to talk about independent political power in KDNP, that this is not true. This can be clearly said for the last 17 times that all you lie about is that you are anti-communists, because you are already in line with the anonymous supporters of the former repressive system. It is very important that, after tomorrow's vote, we want to promote the information of Hungarian citizens in so far as we will publish on a table the names of those pro-government representatives who once again refuse to allow the Hungarian people to face the recent regime change. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his faction and his own position in a two-minute period and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr György Szilágyi. Congressman, just a minute. I ask those who remain unchanged, even though I have asked you not to sign up for a two-minute speech, but for those who have recently applied, because then I cannot determine the order, because the machine will put the two-minutes elsewhere, to sign in for a proper speech. Thank you very much, please understand. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. All I can say is that the last time we had this bill in front of this House, we were unfortunately 27 years behind the previous one, we are now 28 years behind on such laws. 28 years ago, it would have been necessary to make the agents' files public, 28 years ago, to create the possibility that the operators and servants of the pro-state dictatorship should not be allowed to carry public offices in Hungary.28 years ago, justice should have been created so that the victims of the dictatorship would at least be given justice by getting to know the people who ruined their lives, who either branded them or even sent them to prison, or assisted in the execution of their family members. The representatives of Fidesz-KDNP have never been partners in creating this, as Fidesz would probably have to face itself if it supported this law. By the way, this law allowed Béla Biszku to live his life calmly and not to have a final judgment against him. This, because you did not support such laws, allowed György Mátsik, who requested a death sentence for 27 people, to enjoy his last days with a luxury pension thanks to you. And Bence Rétvári sits in here all the time in Peter Mansfeld's T-shirt. You should have supported such laws if you wanted justice in this country! Today, too, has shown why you do not support these laws. Probably because then the Hungarian Prime Minister should not be asked here in the Parliament to report on his past, and why there is no national security screening against the Hungarian Prime Minister. After all, it is simply possible to see from the archives whether Viktor Orbán cooperated with certain services or did not cooperate with certain services. But if these data were to be made public, it's likely that a lot of people in your ranks would be in a very, very uncomfortable situation. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement of course supports the inclusion of the subject series. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-29-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, it is up to Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I myself, when the LMP began to submit these Lustration Bills, I was a member of the LMP, so I am very glad that the few left behind stick to this tradition and bring it back to the House again and again; I think that's why we need so many Krauts. But I wonder how Fidesz will behave, because we see that in their infinitely disappointing arguments, the only thing that regularly comes up is that they are not partners. Let's see why this apparent contradiction can be about how Fidesz and Fidesz politicians are involved in the previous system. I assure you, it is not necessarily a character flaw if someone was party in the previous system, but, let's just say, in the bloody commies full of mouths, at least it will stop the momentum of a man if he has a little more self-reflection. We will start with the Speaker, László Kövér, who was a member of the MSZMP and a member of the Social Policy Institute of the Central Committee, vice-president of the MSZOT; then Járai Zsigmond MSZMP member, György Matolcsy member of the MSZMP, János Martonyi member of the MSZMP, Sándor Pintér, Pál Schmitt Deputy Minister for Social Policy in two MSZMP governments, Rózsa Hoffmann member of the MSZMP, István Mikola member of the MSZMP, Attila Mikán member of the Hungarian People's Front Vice-President; István Stumpf member of the MSZMP, Péter Harrach member of the Hungarian People's Front Vice-President; János Fónagyandrás MSZMP member of the MSZMP, András MSZMP member of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. From this point on, it is not very difficult to understand why they do not support the opposition to the communist past. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-10-29-234	Congressman! The speech is a matter of responsibility. When you list people, I know someone who couldn't be a member of MSZMP from the place where you worked. But it's your responsibility. Mr Zsolt Gréczy is coming from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I very much agree with those who spoke before me. First of all, I would like to point out that the Democratic Coalition also supports the publicity of the agents' files. This is an old debt to the Hungarian legislature. We were supposed to get to the bottom of this in 1989-90. Then there were other reasons. Obviously, the necessary pacts have been made to ensure that this does not happen, but the task is not done. We think that's a problem. The bill also states that there may be restrictions on choice. This, I think, must be handled with caution. In any such case, we may need, say, a judicial procedure, or at least a thorough examination, if someone is to be hit with something like this nearly thirty years after the change of regime. At the same time, it is indeed very strange, and we no longer find it strange, that Fidesz and KDNP are not involved in such a debate, and that they, who are supposedly the heroes of national interest and change of regime, are not involved in this debate. What they're doing is that when an agent comes out of their circles, they act like it's not a city that's coming to me right now, Kaposvár, and when it affects someone else, they're gonna start coming on the communists. It is indeed a matter of saying that Fidesz and KDNP's current parliamentary representatives, who were members of the State Party, do not have a number or a number. So their communistism was completely out of place and completely uncredited. If you want to get some credibility back on this, you will join the opposition parties and support the publicity of the agent files. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr Csárdi is next. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-237	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, According to John Lazarus's own statement, he published the names of 130 agents. He said that exploring the past was good for both the city and local public life. Isn't John Lazarus credible to you? Or are they afraid of the effect of this? Do you think it would not be equally necessary for the country to take this step? A political community claiming to be national cannot go against the desire to explore the past of state security. It's your responsibility, and not just for the four of you, for all of you, it's your responsibility to pass this bill. And it is your responsibility to tell the victims of socialism why things have happened 28 years after the change of regime. [[18.10]] I think, of course, their fear is understandable, I understand the fear. It is well known that you are afraid that the publicity of such a state security past will clearly reveal the political or economic conflicts that you would very much like to keep secret. I think that, since you have already hated this proposal in committee and 17 times in Parliament, I am not an optimist, unlike my fellow Members, I am a pessimist, and unfortunately I say that if you refuse to include this proposal in the series of articles and the bill itself, then it is safe to say that you are not a national party, but a communist successor party. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-29-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-29-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Again, I can tell you that the only member of the government who just sat in here didn't want to hear this. I think that while within the walls of this House, the Prime Minister stands up and constantly Communists so that he was born in '63, I, in '72, in his family, were members of the MSZMP, not even in my family, communists me; I think that we should finally pour clean water into the glass and finally discover who had something to do with the communist past. Essentially, this can be brought here, but, honourable members of the government, let us really get to the point of once having to clarify who played a role and then finally come the day after the clarification has been made that this kind of communism and pointing out each other has been completed. I believe that this is a very embarrassing subject for the pro-government Member, because I think that there are more people sitting among the pro-government Members who are affected by this issue than in the benches of the opposition, even if we count all the opposition representatives, not just because there are more, but there are many people involved. You know, it's not just the list that Bence Tordai listed, it's what makes the list more detailed. So what I'm asking you is that we need to clarify this, and finally we really need to clear the air so that this kind of pointing at each other can be completed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. And, of course, we support it.
u2018-10-29-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal. It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] I don't see any contact. [[István Szávay: Speak up! Don't you have an opinion on this case?]] Mr. Messenger! [[István Szávay intervenes.]] Mr. Messenger! He knows who he's talking about. [[Lajos Rig: Everyone knows, Mr. President. Defiance.]] I will ask who among the authors wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] László Lóránt Keresztes, Leader of the Group, please.
u2018-10-29-241	Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President, and thank you very much for your contributions to the debate. The disappointment, although it is no surprise that the members of the governing party, although they sat through the debate silently, as was the beginning of the debate, is obviously a very important sign for Hungarian voters that they have no comments, no comments, no opinions, no criticisms, no amendments to this proposal. I think this in itself expresses that Fidesz has already faced virtually all the values it had previously represented, in fact, as an empty power machine, nothing else, practically any value that you once knew about. I would like to point out to the DK comment that, of course, we are talking about the inclusion of this series of issues, in the surprising event that the majority of the ruling parties allow us to debate this proposal in substance, then obviously all the necessary amendments can be made, although overall I do not feel these concerns, but obviously it will be possible to examine these amendments. In any case, I also thank DK for the support. It is indeed legitimate to note that we are 28 years behind, but I think it must be said that we can properly pay tribute to the victims and the victims of the communist regime, the communist dictatorship, even with such delay, but we create public awareness and exclude those who have participated in the maintenance of that system from public life. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/1486 on the fight against illegal migration and the management of the migration situation. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence and Police Committee. First, I will give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, our proposal for a decision concerns the fight against illegal migration and the management of the migration situation, a comprehensive proposal dealing exclusively with this issue, this very important issue. We certainly find it shameful that the committee responsible voted against, but we considered it very important that we ask the plenary session to be able to debate and vote on the subject series. How topical the issue is: in the hour of immediate questioning, we have seen from Mr Hubay's speech that the pro-government representatives are almost constantly in fear of migratory pressure, and they also voice this fear by asking questions to their own members of government, but I do not want to give this question a bigot. Obviously, we are talking about a crisis that is extremely important and serious, a process that we are talking about that is a matter of fate for all of Europe, including Hungary, for all of us. That is why the concern of the Fidesz Members is justified, and everyone's concern is justified, because we cannot see the end of this process. This is a crisis of a kind, a process of which there has never been an example, an example of which we have not seen such processes. Unfortunately, we note that neither domestic politics nor European politics speak of the real causes of this crisis by members of the political elite, the political leaders. So we're in a huge delay. It is clear that the leading politicians have reached the point of symptomatic treatment everywhere, and Fidesz has been able to reach this point at home as well. It is very important that this proposal is also about concrete, immediate measures and makes clear proposals. The LMP has made its own position clear on this issue, it is clear to us that it is an extremely important task to protect the EU's external borders, it is important to stop illegal migration, because if we do not do this, we cannot talk about any policy until then, and it is clear to us that there is consensus in this, we can say that it is a national consensus that immigration policy must remain a national competence. However, we have not taken responsible steps until we have identified the root causes of the migration crisis, we have not talked about the causes of war conflicts, geopolitical games, interests, the effects of climate change, the lack of drinking water, the narrowing of opportunities for agricultural production and natural disasters. Fidesz has been talking about the fact that Europe's future is determined by the struggle between the forces that support migration and those that fight against migration. This is an extremely wrong contrast, because as long as no one talks and acts on the causes of migration, such as the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, there is no way to talk about forces that would fight migration. Orbán is, in fact, a prime minister in support of migration. Fidesz would have had every opportunity over the last few months to present proposals to Parliament that really tried to address this issue, and it would have been possible, I also think, with a kind of national consensus and full opposition support, these decisions would have been made. That's not what you did. It is clear that they intend to use this huge crisis for political propaganda. Proposals have been tabled that have been filled with elements that have made it impossible for opposition representatives to support them. This proposal, which the LMP has developed in relation to dealing with the migration crisis, deals only with this issue, because we took it seriously that it was a matter to be dealt with alone in a separate proposal for a resolution. Therefore, I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to support this series of articles. Of course, if we have the opportunity to debate this issue in substance, it is certainly possible to discuss all the requests for amendments here too, and perhaps now the Parliament can adopt a proposal behind which there is a complete national consensus. This would also be a very important message for European policy, however, that Hungary can come up with a proposal for a resolution, a package of proposals for a solution to this extremely important crisis, which is backed by not propaganda, but a complete national cooperation. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members, please, the factions, to support the inclusion of the proposal in the series tomorrow. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to speak to one representative per group in a two-minute time frame, and the same option also applies to the first independent Member. I would ask my fellow Members to apply for a speech. First, I will address Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.20]]
u2018-10-29-245	Mr President, Dear House, We fully support that this issue should be discussed in the form of a debate before Parliament, even because I would be interested to know which is the real Fidesz. When you are throwing away your communication panels, you are facing a certain mirror, and you need to be able to answer what their real face is: the Viktor Orbán that demanded a world quota in 2015 in the UN, perhaps the prime ministers that signed a closing document on the implementation of quota-like solutions are quite amazing, or the one that campaigns in the country by not implementing any resettlement mechanism. We would also be interested, and as part of a deeper strategy, it would be important for us to know, in the future, that the amazing number of protected people who have already been adopted by the governments of Orbán without any substantial screening, where they are, what they are doing, what kind of vision they have in Europe. After all, I have strong doubts that these people want to be an integral part of the European Community. I must say that our strong doubts could be resolved, for example, by a zero-tolerance practice that Jobbik has proposed from the very beginning. Why we do not trust you and allow me to include so many human feelings, that when the savages broke out of the Debrecen migrant hostel and attacked citizens, innocent motorists, this is how we confronted the Fidesz State Secretarys who indicated that there was no migration problem in Hungary and that 3,000 policemen were initiated in the Heroes' field. That's right. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] When it came to the idea that the physical border lock should be built in some way, they still asked for our support, for example, to order the defence. If you recall, the betterman gave the votes to the two-thirds of what was needed. Since then, however, we have seen the expansion of the bond business by the government, protecting its mass reception and phenomena that are perfectly opposed to their rhetoric. Therefore, in order to clarify the national strategy, I would very much like to see a similar debate on our part in the zero tolerance party for immigration. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-29-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-247	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, With regard to this matter, I believe that we disagree on virtually nothing except one thing: that it is an important issue and that this important issue must be debated in Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's enough!]] We therefore support this proposal, despite the fact that it has a number of parts in which we see how the LMP should put it delicately? lacks the moral courage to confront fidesz propaganda and the artificial hysteria maintained by Fidesz. However, we think that we should talk about these issues, because, of course, refugee policy is an important issue, and it is an important question that, in heeding the words of Minister Szijjártó and Prime Minister Orbán, we should give refuge to those who are fleeing the war. An important issue is the protection of borders; it is an important question of how to ensure adequate security at borders; not only in appearances, because I believe that if Mr Németh and Commission President Kósa visit the border, then refugees will avoid the country far, but it is not possible to build border protection on it. Similarly, we believe that there are, for example, issues such as climate change, climate migration or the need for European cooperation, which the LMP's proposal for a decision speaks very rightly and rightly of. All in all, we therefore believe that if you think that this is an important issue, if you think that migration is an important issue, if you think that this is an appropriate answer, and if this is not just propaganda, some cheap campaigning for you, as it seems to be based on recent years, then you support the inclusion of this proposal for a resolution on the subject. Then, in the debate and with amendments, let us decide what the right solutions are, what the right approaches are. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mrs Márta Demeter is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We ask for your support for the adoption of this proposal for a decision. This support was also requested in the National Assembly's National Defence and Police Committee. Unfortunately, however, there the pro-government representatives voted against this proposal from the front. Basically, let's say, we didn't have any illusions about that, and I think the problem was that they didn't speak, and they didn't justify that vote. I have a fellow Member who is also a member of the Defence and Police Committee, and if you could comment here in plenary, that would be an excellent thing. It is clear that a complex solution proposal is needed. That is why we have presented a concrete action plan. This is a concrete action plan, which will ensure the safety of the Hungarian people by voting and implementing it. Unfortunately, it seems that on the part of the government, the substantive action is not in order, and they regard this whole problem as merely a communication catch, which is an extremely long-term and serious problem, and it needs to be resolved. For example, the root causes of migration need to be accurately identified. I'd like to mention the air-conditioning refugees here, too. This is a long-term problem that requires a sustainable solution. The protection of the external borders should be strengthened and security checks should also be carried out in full. I would like to stress here that the whole problem and the management of the migration situation have not only and exclusively a police side, because this is not a task of mass control, and it is not only a humanitarian side, so let us say that we need a complex solution proposal, which, of course, will also respect our international commitments. Hungary could also take the lead in the development of a Balkan forecasting system, yet the government does not lift a finger. If the safety of Hungary is important to you and it is not intended as a bluff of communication when government actors say so, they support the LMP's proposal for a decision. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-250	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Bangóné Borbély Ildikó will take the floor.
u2018-10-29-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party is also in favour of it, and I am particularly pleased personally that the LMP is pressing a problem in this proposal for a resolution, such as climate change, which I do not think we are talking about enough about. We're facing a very urgent problem. On the other hand, I would very much like the fellow Members of the Fidesz to vote in favour of this, because I think that the kind of terror that you are experiencing now within the walls of Parliament is something that we need to talk about. There is a need to find a solution for each other, because I was very afraid of their health, if this fear increases in you, it could end up harming you. But this subject is a little more important, and I think the joke aside is more serious than making fun of it. Rather, I would like to draw attention to the serious injuries that have been caused by the communication of recent years in the population of Hungary. That is precisely why we should talk about this much more, and we should talk about the solution itself much more, because you can see that they are terrified in tiny villages, they are experiencing the migrant issue as a terror, so that they have not met in their lives, and I think they will not meet a migrant. Believe me, there have been such deep wounds in Hungarian people that there will be serious consequences; I can bring up hatred and fear. I have just mentioned two things, which I do not think should live on this subject at such a level in Hungarian people. The responsibility for this lies with you. It is our duty to discuss this problem much more seriously and much more with pro-government politicians within the walls of this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-252	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr György Hubay is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-253	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. I'm trying to maintain my seriousness, because it's really a serious issue. But in the case of some speakers, I would consider what was said as a joke, although I try to take everyone seriously. [[Gergely Harvesto: If it was a joke, we'll let you know.]] We agree that the problem, which concerns climate change on the one hand, and the economic situation, population growth in the countries from which Africa, the Far East and other countries come, must really be taken seriously. It was precisely the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, who proposed and sought out partners to solve the problem locally. He has repeatedly said that we should try to find partners to do this, and that we should try to find solutions and partners on the part of the European Union to solve the problem there. [[18.30]] The other: I think that in 2015, when the border issue and the issue of illegal immigration were a very big problem for the country, then somehow, if I remember it correctly, everyone was so relaxed that, come on, it was nothing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The Fidesz took it lightly, not us!]] You don't have to pay any attention to it anyway. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The only solution was to build a border fence, and even when the construction of the border fence started, even though Hungary's borders were protected by this certain border fence, which provided the Hungarian people with peace and tranquility, the country's security. I believe that the Hungarian Government has taken the steps to keep this security under control to this day, and that the problem raised by you, which concerns solving the local problem, I really agree with it, to contribute to it, to be partners on this subject, that, yes, and that the European Union [[The president's ringing the bell.]] with its proper organs, to find a solution to the problem on the spot and not to flow the many migrants into Europe. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I will ask Lóránt Keresztes, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I very much appreciate this brief little debate, because, to say, the ice is broken, so it was for the first time that there was some kind of debate between the opposition and a pro-government pro-government MEP on the issue of migration, not following a fidesz proposal. I consider this to be an important step forward, and it would be helpful if you were to support the subject-matter of this proposal, to support a meaningful debate on this, but I believe that this proposal was worth presenting in itself. Allow me, Congressman Hubay, to react. What I said about the fact that you have only reached the point of symptomatic treatment is precisely that the Prime Minister is only talking about the provision of refugees in those areas, in the issuing regions, but the Prime Minister is not talking about the reasons why millions of people become refugees. So I would like to draw attention to this question and this problem, that it should be possible to go beyond that. I find that, even if there are differences of opinion, the opposition would be open to such a debate, it would be open to indeed draft a package of proposals for dealing with the migration crisis, the most important element of which is to fill the gap in identifying the causes of the migration crisis, and to define the possible solutions, the development policies, the steps by which we can contribute to this issue, but most importantly, the Government of Hungary can initiate such a pan-European action in the European Union decision-making process, which will eventually reach not only the point of symptomatic treatment, but also the treatment of the causes. In this respect, I thank you all very much for your contributions, thank you very much for the support of the opposition groups, and thank you, Mr Hubay, for your contributions. And what I can add is that if the Fidesz faction does not support the inclusion of the proposal in the subject series and we do not have any illusion that we can still expect Viktor Orbán or his government to take any meaningful steps, we are prepared for this, and we have launched an initiative to launch an exploratory debate at European policy level on these issues, the causes and the assessment of the whole process itself, because this is the first step in this respect. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] so that European policy can really act in order to resolve a question of fate that will determine the future of all of us. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-256	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's report on the Hungarian Defence Office's detailed number is now under discussion. Government referral H/2163. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh, if you would like to speak now. [[Németh Szilárd István: No, thank you.]] No, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Defense Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. During the debate, a two-minute comment is not possible in accordance with the house rules. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[Gergely Arató: This will be a short debate too! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I give the floor first from the LMP Group to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2018-10-29-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal by the Ministry of Defence was very surprising, according to which I would like to raise once again the authorised number of Hungarian defences. This is a strange situation, as the Hungarian Defence Office is struggling with a shortage of about 8,000 personnel at the moment, a large part of which is missing from the crew of the Hungarian Defence Forces, so the executive staff is missing, but it is also true that many of the officers have unfortunately left the field. And it has to be acknowledged that the defense salary has risen in the last year, and it is now rising to more than HUF 44 thousand next year, slightly over HUF 44 thousand, but it seems that this was not enough to stop the fluctuations in the Hungarian Defence Office's staff and to start a substantial upload. It is very strange that the proposal to increase the current staff base increases the number by more than 6,500 people, which means that the shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces could now rise above 13-14 thousand people, unless substantial steps are taken to fill the staff. Unfortunately, it seems that the past year's measures have not been sufficient for this, they do not offer an adequate perspective that young people who want to serve their country in the Hungarian Defence Corps should not only enter the country, but also stay there permanently, and do not lose their knowledge, can also be included in the work of the following service providers. It is also incomprehensible why the government wants to increase the voluntary reserve system to 20,000 people. It is clear that the current number of the Hungarian army and, obviously, we are talking about a huge shortage here in addition, but also for the current staff base, if we look at the size of the reserve system that would be justified professionally, this means a reserve system of 5-6 thousand people, based on the calculations of experts. Obviously, we are not suggesting that former pensioners should be forced to do so, or that others should be forced into a reserve system by any means, as they have done to former pensioners, now you can hear from government officials who would be dressed as reserve workers. This does not create any meaningful skill development for the Hungarian Defence Office, we can say that it creates a parallel force, so to speak, by taking away a great deal of resources, because reserveers must be provided with clothing, equipment and accommodation, so that all this money will be taken from the professional staff of the Hungarian Defence Office, from improving the meaningful functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces. So there is a need for substantial measures here, not to increase the number of soldiers and the number of Hungarian defences on paper, but to take measures that offer a meaningful perspective. The LMP has repeatedly proposed that the salary base should be raised to HUF 60,000 in a uniform manner, we have also made the proposal to remove the 15 percent deduction for beneficiaries of current service obligations, and to give them the pension status and, of course, to develop a new type of socially equitable early retirement pension scheme that encourages those in stock to serve as long as possible, their knowledge to serve their country as long as possible, but to provide adequate compensation for the sacrifice they make every day. After all, we have to say here that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces perform excellently both in Hungary and abroad, so I think they deserve to be honoured. Allow me to bring you here to express our hope that the joint amendment proposal of the Defence Committee will be supported by the MPs here in plenary, as the Defence Committee has finally incorporated the bill of LMP and other opposition representatives, according to which overtime will still be payable to the Hungarian Defence Forces after 1 January 2019. [[18.40]] So here, too, I would like to ask you to support this proposal, because this is where the substantial appreciation of the stock begins. We will not be able to support the government's proposal to increase the Hungarian Defence Force's staff base, as without substantial measures, this is not appropriate to fill the huge shortage of Hungarian Defence Forces and to remedy this situation. Basically, he's raising the numbers on paper, and we don't think it's anything but some kind of scam with the budget. I think this should be resolved in a completely transparent way. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea is next. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-29-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, H/2163. We are now discussing a proposal in addition to the Commission's work, in which the defence portfolio asks 37 650 people to determine the number of people with detailed breakdown by decision of the Parliament. During the general debate, we have already given a very detailed view of the Jobbik faction on this issue, and I would certainly not like to repeat what has been said there, but there is always something to talk about when the question of defence arises between the walls of the House. It was a vain fantasy, however, that an hour ago, at the request of the leader, the Minister of Defence might have waited for the debate on this subject, but he would like the National Assembly to determine the number of the Hungarian Defence Forces in 37 650. I think it is a rather serious question, however, that, if you have become Minister of Defence at least in this debate or in this matter, you should stay here within the walls of this House, if you have already been here, although your working time may be over and you must hurry home. But one thing's for sure, it's 35/2013. By parliamentary decision of 16 May 2002, the Hungarian Parliament defined the number of Hungarian defences in detail in 29,700. Today, the Hungarian Defence Office operates with 21,000 people, so it is 8 thousand fewer than the specified number in 2013. In 2016, 35/2016. By parliamentary decision of 19 December 2002, the Hungarian Parliament defined the number of members in 31 080. I must say that the Members of Parliament were extremely benevolent and good faith, because they did not look into why, in fact, the army should be constantly increased on paper. When Members of Parliament receive such a request from the relevant representatives of the Government, they expect at least to give reasons for this. In this proposal for a decision, the Minister for Defence did not provide any justification for this number. There is no reason for this number to be used for the program, Zrínyi 2026, because we do not even know that the program Zrínyi 2026 is new to the organization, the number so far, the armament stock so far, and the operational capabilities so far, which requires 16,000 more in the Hungarian army than the current number, with no volunteers in this 37 650 staff. We say that I no longer fully understood that, having always been determined by a given parliamentary decision, who was the smart lawyer who managed to bring the 2016 headcounting to the House by means of the 13th amendment. Lawyers probably weren't clear enough because they probably went through these proposals in a few minutes. However, it is quite peculiar that in this proposal for a decision, the justification is as if the proposal had already been made by 31 080 from 13 onwards. No, it was 29,700 at the time, then 31,080, 16 at the time. Today, the lawyers have probably noticed that this is not really good, that we are changing previous decisions, because the number of employees can always be determined independently with each decision, so that its former repeal takes place. This is certainly appropriate from a codification point of view. This number of 37 650 would increase officers by 1,000 compared to the last number, 2 thousand for the petty officers and 6,000 for the crew. The proposal for a decision does not provide any justification for creating, for example, new military organisations or for opening previously closed barracks. In view of the fact that such numbers are planned, if, by some miracle, they were able to enter the Hungarian Defence Office between 2020 and 26, they would not be able to be located. So I think that this is an extremely frivolous proposal, and it is very disrespectful of the Members of Parliament to present such a serious proposal on such a serious issue, and what it says in this explanation is everything but justification; words yes, but content not. That is why I am obliged to say, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, that, until someone is willing to justify a proposal, they do not expect a Member of Parliament to be able to make a decision about it at all, because there is a need for justification for yes, gender and residence. In the training of officers, in the training of junior officers, as I said earlier during the general debate, there will be a small number of Hungarian soldiers coming to the Hungarian Defence Office, that there will be no way to fill the number of 2 thousand in the official staff, the number of 4 thousand in the Petty Officer's staff and the number of 10 thousand in the crew during the remaining eight years. I would also like to indicate what I said earlier, that for this minimum number of people, we would need a budget of 740 billion from the Hungarian budget, but 740 billion does not include the equipment with the weaponry. When a soldier arrives at an army, his wages and his contributions are the smallest items in his employment. There is the training, the equipment, the supply of weapons, and the development of his workplace, where he will provide the service. We understand that you want to increase the number of volunteers. I just think it would have been enough to put forward a parliamentary resolution. But we can't really imagine it growing from 8,000 to 20,000 people up to 2026 because the discounts and motivations that have created the current situation of the volunteer reserve staff will not stand up in the future, nor will the avoidance of those who are in charge of service benefits, nor are the amazingly expensive motivational systems that allow voluntary reserve workers to be brought into the system. Since my group has plenty of time to explain our position during this debate, let me tell my fellow Members in Parliament one more question, because they probably have no idea. They could ask why it's so positive or why it's so successful or why it's so attractive to be in the voluntary reserve system right now, like, say, applying to a petty officer or an officer, so I'll tell you. Today, a young man who graduated from a university, and let's just say he's out of doctoral school and has a Ph.D., can become a volunteer reserve sergeant at the age of 26. That's what you're hearing. At 26, he can become a VP major, and I happen to know people like that myself. After the same training, professional officers have graduated from college, received a degree, even a master's degree, and can achieve major status after about 12 years of service. Today, there is an unbelievable conflicting and sick system between the volunteers and the professionals, and there is a tension, and now imagine, my fellow Members, that the lieutenant in the system should report and salute to the VP, although the two have very little to do with their involvement in the military. It is important to talk about such matters because it was already in question how such a worthless proposal could come in. But if, in fact, you could see in depth what unprofessional activity is taking place today in the defence system, what tension there is, and how the principle of equal treatment does not apply, and, by the way, serious, knowledgeable NATO soldiers are being ignored and they are not in positions where they belong after many, many missions, I note that the minister has not yet been on a mission, then they would practically understand how such a proposal could come before the House. [[18.50]] So I would like one from the defence wallet, respect the Hungarian people by building an army that is truly suitable to preserve the territorial independence of the Hungarian people and our country. Secondly, if we are members of NATO, be professionally structured in such a way that it actually serves the preliminary purpose. And since Parliament and Members of Parliament have the right to decide on different issues, honour Members of Parliament by giving at least merit when presenting such a proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-29-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Attila Mesterházy is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If I have followed the previous debate on this proposal well, then the Secretary of State has not given a real, meaningful answer to what this increase in staff will do. Which is not surprising, because they have many initiatives that serve public relations, communication, rather than initiatives with real professional content. After all, it is difficult to grasp with common sense what many speakers have already said here, that if we do not manage to upload the existing number, then if we increase the number, it is not very difficult to conclude that not the number will increase, but the shortage will expand, so there will be more places where people will not be able to find the different, let me put it this way, recruitment agencies. If you would take this increase seriously, you would certainly have to start this work elsewhere, because in order to increase the number of people, it is primarily young people who are interested in the defence field and profession. So maybe we should start with the information or the seduction to put it this way, for young people to choose this otherwise beautiful profession, because the protection of the country, the nation, is always an uplifting task and a profession for everyone who is able and willing to do it. Another problem is that there are also many statistical surveys that people who want to choose this beautiful profession do not in many cases physically meet the parameters needed to choose the military career. So while there are interested people, in many cases the barriers to their inclusion or dressing up are that they are not suitable, they are not able to meet the criteria that constitute the marginal conditions of this profession. So it seems to me more like a PR commitment on the part of the government, the idea of a Prime Minister's megalomania. Two years ago, in 2016, if I remember correctly, the Prime Minister said that we had such an operetta army that could not protect Hungary from anything, but now the professional training will begin, which will allow us to reach the level of a powerful, real army. Now, two years have passed, we have not come any closer to this goal, and it is quite certain that a lot of opaque, meaningless decisions will be made by the defence leadership, from procurement of assets to various professional directions. To give you a completely different example now, since we were talking about young people, I do not know if you will have a problem with this, Mr Secretary of State: the Prime Minister said that there must be a gun range in every district. That's about 175 walks. There was a serious political intention to do so, and they created the old MHSZ, if I remember correctly, perhaps the same foundational document that the MHSZ had previously had, but the letters may be a little different now, but it doesn't matter; they said that there would be such a field building, that the municipalities would hand over the right real estate, and then there would be such shooting places in the districts where they could begin this patriotic training or fun-making of youth. What I see is that there are four or five of these shooting ranges, while the Prime Minister's wish, demand, political order was born more than a year ago. It seems that even the Fidesz municipalities do not have a good number of them to break themselves in order to build a gunfield for their own municipal areas. So I see that there is still something more to be done in this area, so that this infrastructure can come up at all, through which it is possible to attract these young people and attract them to this beautiful and useful career once again. The other thing was to provide soldiers with a career model that makes them clear, predictable, predictable and predictable to thrive on this course, with adequate financial and moral recognition. And it doesn't fit Vargabe letters like the many previous decisions when they made a retrospective change to certain conditions. So if you're gonna be a soldier, you're definitely gonna choose this as a career. So you need to see exactly what conditions and how you can do this job from entry until you retire. Therefore, I can say that just as stadium building does not make it good football in Hungary, neither will the Hungarian army be more capable to increase its number, especially if it remains a number on paper, and it means a virtual expansion, nothing else. We should start from the basics, once again, by preparing and addressing young people, and then by a career that gives a predictable way of life and proper existential and moral recognition, and by continuing and implementing professional directions on the part of the defence leadership that meet the requirements of the modern age. And the government made a commitment to NATO to reach a 2 percent GDP rate, if I remember correctly, until 2024. If you're trying to do this with all these different tricks right now, it's not gonna get us anywhere, that's for sure. This army would be much more efficient and powerful if we could develop it technically; if there were better financial and moral appreciation for people already there; if we really did not try to untie and unlock the various capacities of the Hungarian Defence Forces through such competitive public procurements, but rather, even through specialisation, we would improve our capacities and capabilities, in which Hungary can already offer outstanding capacities. Let me mention two subjects. One of them is the medical and health role of doctors and other staff in the Hungarian Defence Corps, and the other is: Hungary has been famous for intelligence, and military intelligence has been able to produce significant results in this regard. And I am sure there are many other areas in which the ability and knowledge of the Hungarian Defence Forces can be assessed and excelled by international standards even in these circumstances. It would make sense, perhaps, as NATO is moving towards specialisation, so Hungary would choose the areas in which we have a real, so to say, comparative advantage or ability, where we could really contribute to NATO's various capabilities. And in these areas, perhaps it would make sense to allocate resources rather than to come up with agreements, following various economic or private interests, which would be not professional decisions made for defence, but for military purposes, but, in many cases, inaccessible power interests, or decisions aimed at enriching buddies and friends. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-262	Thank you very much. I will ask if one of my fellow Members wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Before I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. [[It's a rare applause.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-29-263	I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to the rapporteur: Mr Szilárd Németh wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have ten minutes. [[19.00]]
u2018-10-29-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm not in a simple situation, because here they asked the same sentences, the same questions as they did two weeks ago. I practically answered them. The questions that have been asked in detail in the explanatory memorandum, in eleven paragraphs, this Parliamentary resolution proposal will comply. I wouldn't really like to answer any of the other crickets and slices, but I would still like to say that these questions show either complete indiscretion or complete malice. These are very hard to deal with. It is very difficult to do with the Benkő Tibor-phobia, the same thing was said in the same sentence; then there was a legal I don't know what, lecture; of course, it turned out that the legal position of the Member since then as a lawyer was completely inadequate for anyone to use it. [[Márta Demeter: Don't get personal.]] We told you how this parliamentary decision came about. We told them the other one was gone. I don't know, so I don't know what else to share with you on this matter. From what I've seen, there was a need for this debate. Something had to be said today. I can only assume that in the last two weeks, since you have noticed so many problems, you have experienced so many shortcomings, why you have not tabled an amendment. There is not a single amendment before Parliament, there is nothing to talk about. In fact, there is this Parliamentary resolution proposal, and we will decide on it tomorrow. It's that simple. So you have demonstrated complete professional incompetence. We are used to this, but the most interesting thing for me was when Congresswoman Márta Demeter wanted to say something again with reference to the LMP. He not only made himself unfit for today's debate professionally, but by not providing, leaking, and falsifying military data, I think that he is morally and politically unfit to speak at all in the debate on Hungarian defence and the development of Hungarian defence, but he did not perceive this, so he made his contribution, which we also cannot help with, because there is no substantive proposal behind the comment that can be addressed. So I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal for a resolution as one of the foundation proposals for a programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026, which refers to the number of people, defence development, during tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-265	Thank you very much, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Following the line of 2017... [[Márta Demeter: Just one sentence, Mr. President.]] Is that what it is? 'Cause I just saw the signal, and then he waved back, and now he's coming back. I'll give you the floor on a case-by-case basis. You have two minutes. I'm listening.
u2018-10-29-266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And besides, I will not take the two minutes, because today, too, I have answered on countless occasions and I have drawn attention to what the government and the government are not telling the truth about this matter. I would only like to draw your attention to the fact that you have thus addressed me to do so, to read the relevant laws, and to do so in order to keep the Secretary of State in mind that you are informed about the relevant matters in the field of defence. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-267	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Nevertheless, the Commission's reports on the second national climate change strategy for the period 2017-2030, with a view to 2050, and the discussion of the summarised amendment, will follow. The government referral is H/385. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-10-29-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that the Parliament's Legislative Committee is the Parliamentary Resolution of 10/2014 on certain house regulations 46. At its meeting on 25 October 2018, it discussed the proposal for a decision on a second national climate change strategy for the period 2017-2030 for the period from H/385, to 2050, and assessed the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the proposal for a decision, which concluded a detailed discussion in the annex to the summary report. During the procedure of the Legislative Committee, the resolution house rule is 42. § 4 and Article 44 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union § 1 has also examined the fulfilment of the requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article. The Committee on Sustainable Development has expressed its support for its proposal to amend it. In addition, on a proposal from the pro-government members of the Legislative Committee, he expressed and accepted an intention to amend further. The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 46. H/385/5. Submitted under 1.01 p.m. The discussion of the Commission's amendment to the proposal for a decision, which closed the detailed debate, was concluded on 25 October 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] H/385/5. Submitted under 1.01 p.m. The discussion of the Commission's amendment to the proposal for a decision, which closed the detailed debate, was concluded on 25 October 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2018-10-29-269	Thank you very much. I am now giving the floor to those who wish to speak in advance, although I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: No, at the end.]] At the end. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Gábor Varga, rapporteur of the designated Committee for Sustainable Development, in a three-minute time frame.
u2018-10-29-270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to inform you of the detailed debate. The Parliament's Committee for Sustainable Development at its meeting on 9 October on the provisions of certain house rules 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. H/385 was carried out on the basis of the provisions of Section H/385. a detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision on a second national climate change strategy for the period 2017-30 with a view to 2050. The Committee concluded that the proposal complies with the Decision House Rule 44. § (1) of the Fundamental Law and the other necessary legal and legislative requirements. No amendments have been tabled by the Members, but the Committee is the House Rule 45 of the Decision. Article 5 of the Act provides for a proposal for amendment by the Commission, which concludes a detailed debate. The submission of the 106-point amendment was justified by the update of the data, statistics and diagrams containing the Annex to the proposal, the second national climate change strategy, since the original proposal was submitted on 23 May 2017. Dear House, I'd like to give you the majority opinion. H/385. The aim of the proposal is to adopt a second national strategy for climate change, setting targets for the period 2017-2030, and to provide an outlook for the period 2050 for successful action against the effects of climate change in the development and integration of a single approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, adapting to climate change in sectoral and territorial planning, decision-making and implementation mechanisms. [[19.10]] The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. The draft NÉS-2 was drawn up in 2013 after the amendment of Law No 1 of 1 January 2013, which was revised in accordance with the Paris Agreement, adopted in 2015 and published in Hungary by Law No L of 2016 and entered into force on 4 November 2016. The new NÉS-2 is a strategy that can ensure national and social survival and meaningful development as a general and comprehensive goal in a rapidly changing world. This means setting a path that makes adaptation to climate change feasible as an economic pull instead of a burden. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask for the support of the proposal, the committee supported and proposed its adoption. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-271	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, who will present the committee's minority opinion in a three-minute time frame.
u2018-10-29-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As a minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I would like to draw up the arguments for which Parliament should ask the Government to revise the strategy currently under discussion. Firstly, the strategy was drawn up at a time when the economic restructuring after the change of regime and the effects of the financial and economic crisis were still felt and this was reflected in the more favourable emission values. On the other hand, the average increase in CO2 emissions is 5.6 per cent per year from 2015, which exceeds the growth rate of domestic GDP of 2-4 per cent during this period, i.e. the Hungarian carbon intensity is deteriorating and shows an unsustainable path. Secondly, the domestic carbon inventory needs to be reviewed for both indirect emissions and sinks. It is very important, it is essential for the correct assessment of domestic emission values that we clearly see our swallowing capacities, their relationship to domestic emissions. To absorb our own emissions would require 12.5 million hectares of forest, but as we know, there are only 2 million hectares. Conservation of species, habitats and restoration of ecosystem services are a cross-sectoral task beyond nature conservation areas. This leaves NÉS's target system in debt, even though the possibility of improving ecosystem services has been given through the restructuring of the agricultural support system. Aid should be redirected to promote high environmental quality and high food quality cultivation technologies. In order to prevent further loss of green surfaces, an immediate green surface-use stop should be put in place and development needs should be ensured in brownfield areas. It is also important to recast NÉS in order to ensure better consistency with other sectoral strategies. The existing sectoral strategies are currently dictated by NÉS. The weak point of the strategy is that it merely suspects certain measures rather than illuminates them in substance. One of these is the question of introducing a carbon tax. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a particular concern about the lack of harmony between adaptation and decarbonisation measures. For this reason, we propose a complete revision of NÉS. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-273	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-10-29-274	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow members of the Government have remained here. I will speak briefly, because I see that you are less susceptible to nuanced reasoning. Therefore, I would like to illustrate, with some simple, I might say, a very lifelike example for you, how much the stakes are. Last time I told you, while you're fighting phantoms, you're doing nothing to prevent or prevent a social, health and economic emergency due to climate change that is really threatening. But you may have noticed that today the thermometer showed 23 degrees, all at the end of October. You have been running this country for over eight years, but the Orbán government still has no agreed climate policy. It is good that sustainability is at least mentioned in the rural strategy. However, our joy is significantly reduced by the fact that the space for protecting air purity is about as large as the horse program. I know the horse is the nation's gymnasium, and as such, it's important to the sports-loving prime minister. But I'm telling you, Prime Minister, the lawn in the stadium will burn if we don't do something. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that he is planning for the long term, which is commendable. The problem is that the problems of climate change are already emerging in the short term. And the stakes are big, even huge. I will try to briefly illustrate this impending disaster with examples that make it easy for you to understand. If fossil energy is exhausted, Prime Minister and other oligarchs of NER can fly their private jets to soccer matches and indeed electrify the small railway station. If the sea level rises as a result of global warming, Árpád Habony cannot have fun in Ibiza because it is flooded with the sea. I would like to note here, by the way, that every gram of Colombian cocaine will result in the destruction of four square meters of rainforest. If global warming burns out the crops, Lőrinc Mészáros will have to rethink his agricultural-business policy, although we cannot hope to take back his lands. If the price of the paper goes up because of Hungary's desertification, Antal Rogán may also worry because there will be no newspapers where he can place his stupid advertisements. If the forests die in Hungary, there will be nothing to hunt for Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén and he will have to travel to Sweden even more. And like I said, the lawn will burn out in the stadiums. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, We can talk about what climate change means for the national economy until the end of the day, the effects on the lives of people, especially the poor, and the burden on Hungarian health. You obviously don't care. So I have tried to give examples that show that it will affect the lives of both you and your leaders if we do not act. After eight years of government and the same time of grating, it would be good to not only burn but also build the future. Your proposal does not meet this objective. They wasted the printer's capacities, operated the computers, manufactured the waste of the drafts, which, I hear, they can no longer transport in the 130 settlements of the country, but they have already been spoken about by my opposition colleagues. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot vote in favour of this proposal. In fact, it should be reworked, whether in the interests of Viktor Orbán, Árpád Habony or Lőrinc Mészáros, or at least in the interest of their children. Thank you very much for listening, Mr. President. [[19.20]]
u2018-10-29-275	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, there may be another in Politics.
u2018-10-29-276	Thank you for the floor. First, I would like to refer back to the previous parliamentary chat in this House, when my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck and I were able to listen to this wisdom from the Secretary of State Cseresnyés. He said that climate change has something to do with human activity is a matter of debate. Well, maybe you're discussing it. [[Péter Cseresnyés: That is not what I said, Congressman.]] If that is not what you said, then I am very pleased that you accept that there are anthropological causes of climate change and that it is caused by human activity. [[Peter Cseresnyés: I didn't say that either!]] Then you won't accept this either... I don't know what your position is, but I'm sure you'll be able to explain it here, Fidesz has enough time frame. In any case, since you generally deny that the causes of climate change are caused by human activity, this means that you are unable to put a climate strategy on the table that can then handle something that you deny. So that would be the case. The other thing I would like to say is that the LMP cannot accept this document because it builds on nuclear energy, and the fact is that we do not support the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Our position is that this is a dangerous energy source, an energy source that is said to be carbon-free, yet there is a great deal of danger in it, a dangerous factor that we do not support. This may seem funny here in Parliament, but if, for example, they lived in South Baranya next to such a landfill, then the four pro-government representatives here would not smile so much. I'd like to keep going. For example, what this document does not say is that in Hungary there would be at least a green stop in order not to cut out any more green surfaces. We know that they are doing this against both the Városliget project and the Győr area and several other rural projects. At present, Budapest is one of the worst in European classification of the green surface of a citizen, and the worst of this is the European Erzsébetváros, where 0.3 square meters of green space is available for a citizen. This is completely outrageous. This has fallen significantly below you, and you will have the opportunity to change it in the municipal elections. I'm moving on. There's one thing you could do to stop aliens from coming from abroad, so it would fit in with your government communication, but you don't. Things come to Hungary that have no place here, which are now coming to Hungary because of globalisation and climate change. These are the invasive species they could fight. We all know what kind of bedbug crisis there is in Hungary. This is a tangible result of the fact that climate change has already begun. The preservation of biodiversity and the fight against invasive species could be something that could also be affected by this strategy. I'd like to keep going. There are other fundamental things here that have been left out of Fidesz's policy despite their promise. In 2010, it was promised when they had an election programme that significant resources would be spent on modernising the building stock. That hasn't happened to this day. It would be the fight against climate change and at the same time the green electricity reduction programme if the building stock were to be modernised by means of a window replacement or possibly by other alternative means. This did not happen, despite the fact that I am sure that they could find people who would then win these tenders in the same way as they do elsewhere. Furthermore, in the agricultural policy, although my fellow Member has already said, there are all the words in the agricultural policy about what needs to be done in the event of climate change. Hungary could continue to switch to a water-resistant agriculture and to various GMO- and chemical-free agricultural activities, which would once be good because this would result in an agricultural market in which we are unique in the world, so this could also be very helpful for Hungarian exports, but Hungary could also play its part in its fight against climate change if we were at the forefront in the process of reducing the impact of agriculture on climate change. I would also like to say that, although I have listened with great excitement to the voice of the Member, I would say that the next time this climate strategy can have a concrete impact on the budget or other important laws, it would be in 2020 if I understood correctly. Then we're gonna waste two years on something that's already here, on climate change that you know is already here, that you can see in October when that kind of weather happens. This is already an important thing, something that has an international scientific consensus that is caused by human activity. Even if Mr Cseresnyés, State Secretary, thinks that he said that, or has thought about it since he didn't say that. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You have to read the report and not say false things! The president's ringing the bell several times.]] I'm gonna go through with it, Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna go through with it. I'm very glad you think there are human causes for climate change. I hope that your position will be defrauded by the Prime Minister and the Government. I am pleased that you have joined the ever-increasing coalition in this respect, as is the LMP and now the international scientific consensus. [[Péter Cseresnyés: How much fun he has on himself!]] There's a place for you here. In this case, I would like to ask you to represent this very actively at the government meeting. Let me also point out that the last time I learned about the very serious climate change situation, I learned this at a university called the Central European University, then Secretary of State Elijah, your former Secretary of State for the Environment, taught me the course of climate science. What I have said here, I have learned from Mr Illés, Secretary of State, in many respects, by receiving two degrees at the Central European University. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-277	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, representative of the Group of the Democratic Coalition.
u2018-10-29-278	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I am also a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I am also a member of the TAB, and I am also a member of the Legislative Committee. I had the opportunity to comment on this bill in both places. I think if you look at this material in a professional sense, the 248-page presentation, you'll find everything here in inventory. What can be said about these chapters in today's professional knowledge can be described in a nice inventory. What is the problem, I think, is the breakdown of this annual strategic action when it is incorporated into the annual or medium-term plans, because the professional issues that are listed here, which are affected and seriously affected by climate change, so there can be no excuse for inventory listing, because I think everything is put together nicely. What we do not know, however, is exactly what the previous speakers have said about how all of this will become a substantial part of the budget and how all of this will help us with the damage caused by climate change. To highlight a few words and a few things: the question that has already been raised here is very important whether we leave a role in the question of biodiversity, i.e. ecosystem. The material itself does not indicate that there are a lot of civil society organisations working in this area. Few are concerned with the enormous capacity of this large-scale presentation of the role of the civil movement, i.e. the residential communities, the self-organization of the population, especially those engaged in environmental protection, urban development and the construction of settlements. Although there is a chapter on human policy in it, there is the media, and there is a lot of work on the material, from which there is an effort to complete the proposal, but I think that the feasibility, so the achievement of merit, is difficult to grasp in this huge proposal. It has also been said, but it is important to say that the most important part of the climate change strategy is how strict we can take action on emissions issues in a big city like Budapest, where carbon, which has been said here, but primarily in terms of exhaust pollution, noise pollution and much more, the city and the big cities have the potential to change its solution only by turning huge money. [[19.30]] 1995-96-97 are the basic laws governing environmental protection in Hungary, and at that time these laws were not made in eco-form, but in a professionally fragmented way for water management, waste management, forestry and much more. Separate laws, or 12-15 such separate laws are passed here in Parliament, and it is as if these laws passed side by side. Today, this climate change supersedes the regulation in the specific laws at that time, since they need to be evaluated from an ecological point of view. I sense from this that we will continue to go on in the first place by opening up professional questions. And there is a very delicate matter that has been said here today in interpellations, this water, the protection of good quality water, even the protection of the water in which we are very rich in this country. In addition, at the beginning of the committee meeting, I spoke about it a little more widely, the Danube, the Tisza and much more, which flows through Hungary in the geographical sense of the river basins of Transcarpathia, literally flows through, and we cannot hold back waters from this water, just to address climate change issues. I believe that in this regard, this proposal is timid, and dares not say that, for example, in the case of the Danube, the operation of Paks is already a problem, even though we are only talking about Paks I. In the event that Paks II. It will also be built, this Danube water will only be sufficient for cooling and thus for the management of the nuclear power plant if and if the water is in some way held back. Many forms of this are possible. Obviously, under Paks, the water must be held back in some way. And if not, the one-sided, only water-cooling technology is in great danger. The Committee on Sustainable Development has indeed adopted a series of amendments as a complement to a whole series of issues, and the TAB has also adopted an amendment. These amendments, I think, if I look at them in a professional sense, may even be accepted, but in terms of the political part, in particular in terms of feasibility, I do not really perceive that this is a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-10-29-279	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. I would like to inform Mr Attila Mesterházy that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Group of Dialogue for Hungary, Mr Bence Tordai.
u2018-10-29-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would be very happy to say that the Fidesz colleagues have followed what I said about the climate strategy in the speaker's speech, many have said. At least this text has been updated a little in the summary amendment proposal, but the thing is, I can't rejoice at it because they recorded the fact that they have exposed themselves that what they write here over a hundred pages, I don't want the head of the meeting to have to blame, so I'm not saying bullshit, so I'm saying that it's written. The government's actual policy is in stark contrast to what's being proclaimed here, and it already has its imprint. Since 2014, greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 14 percent, which is perhaps the most accurate measure of how environmentally friendly a country's economy and society operate. It is easy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while there is a recession. In fact, the temporary crisis in the '90s has solved for Hungary for a very long time that the emission levels compared to the end of the '80s can be greatly reduced, and then, when it was about to become a problem, it was the 2008 crisis that helped the country to maintain emission levels in such a bad sense. But from the moment growth started, there was an economic expansion, and there was no awareness on the part of government policy, no ambition in the direction of this economic development in an environmentally friendly, future-friendly, philanthropic way, unfortunately we see that greenhouse gas emissions, carbon emissions, are also constantly increasing; so much so that the most pessimistic estimate of the years after 2014, which was in the original proposal, does not show as steep a rise as what the facts show in the summary amendment. So the thing is, our worst nightmares are being undermined by this government, which, given its environmental impact, is pretty scary. It's kind of scary, because we keep saying it when they're really doing climate-killing policy, when the future is being eliminated today, I just want to mention three examples in this regard. One, when mentioned in point 19, is as if it were part of the normal business, that the Norwegian fund had completed its operation here and that it no longer supported civil society organisations in the field of environmental protection, fighting for the green future. No, it wasn't, but it was that the Fidesz government had until then destroyed these civilians, launched a manhunt against them, and at the end it took away the money that would have come from Norwegian taxpayers, by the way, so that it would not be stolen by the Fidesz government, but that it could be used by NGOs independent of the government, mainly environmental organisations, for purposes that would contribute to the construction of sustainable Hungary in the long term. But it seems to you that this has been very disturbing, so the Norwegian fund has completed its blessing. Similar situation, to be extracted from the bottom of a table, Table 5 is shown in this 106-point amendment that the panel programme has indeed stopped. In fact, not only did you shut down the panel program, you probably did not allow EU public funds to reach these lower middle-class or working-class families because of your dislike for panel proles, but you also rewritten in point 22 so that not only the energy efficiency investments of family houses, condominiums and construction companies could be supported by the climate protection fund, but also by all kinds of businesses. This is how it is possible to give huge EU funds to friends of János Lázár who are hiding in various business circles, and it is again hundreds of billions of forints on an annual basis. And these are profit-oriented businesses, which have nothing to do with climate protection, climate-conscious construction and similar objectives. They just like free EU money. So, just a few examples, but for one thing, I have to commend this amendment. In point 73, it is said that Hungary's energy demand will decrease, as opposed to what is being used as an argument to underpin the Paks II expansion, that Hungary's energy demand will increase in the coming decades. That's impossible, they can't be that shortsighted, and they can't be that suicidal. I hope that at least this will be true of the decreasing energy demand set out in point 73, but unfortunately we cannot support this amendment either. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-281	Thank you, Congressman Tordai, notary. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-10-29-282	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It may also be worth saying in this debate that there is a lack of the Ministry of the Environment, and there is also a lack of the Ombudsman, who has dealt with these green issues. It is obvious that there is no real lobbying power in this area within the government, and that the current bill would probably not have been adopted if there was a separate ministry, if there was a green ombudsman, and if, where appropriate, more attention and support were given to organisations dealing with climate protection and environmental protection. I really thought, listening to the debates about this and the previous debates in Parliament: there are many things to copy the United States in, but this is exactly what we want to copy it in? There's also a president who thinks it's a Bolshevist trick, although he's already had one or two interviews about it as if he's accepting it. But to put the joke aside, it would be the right thing to do, and it would be good for Hungary to do the same in order that, if this question was already in the Ministry of Innovation, innovation would indeed appear in this area. [[19.40]] So, as many people have said here, the promotion and promotion of renewable energy sources, whether in terms of wind or geothermal energy, would give Hungary a serious opportunity and would indeed allow new industries to be introduced. So not only in terms of environmental protection, but also in terms of job creation, and thus also in terms of economic growth, these renewable energy sources or other means and opportunities of saving energy could give us priority. So what I would just like to say is that the approach to Hungary pulling its shoulders is not a good one, and it says that we are too small to have this issue on our hands, or that Hungary really does not matter in this fight against the big global challenge. But it does matter, a lot of small things go a long way, if everyone does their part, then we are getting closer to the goals that my fellow Members have been talking about in the past. Let me offer you one more thing: I am Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a little bit of this aspect. The last time I listened to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who perhaps spoke in Astana about the fact that the United Nations should be more concerned with removing the root causes of migration, and elsewhere he said that this climate change is a stupidity and that this is not something to be dealt with, and that he is lobbying to support various German industrial lobbyings in Brussels and elsewhere in order to make a positive change in the different CO2 emission quotas. Then let me draw your attention to the fact that climate change is one of the root causes of migration, for example. So if, say, they want to reduce the root causes of migration [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] then, for example, such an opportunity should also prevent the causes of climate change, its negative effects. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-283	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. As you have indicated, Mr Secretary, you wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary.
u2018-10-29-284	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, allow me to thank you for all the constructive contributions made in the general and detailed debate on the Second National Climate Change Strategy. I would point out that the builder, because there was one that was not constructive in this debate. I would particularly like to refer to the comments that specifically devalue Hungary, the Hungarian government, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian authorities, the very diverse efforts that result in Hungary achieving very significant results in the area of climate policy and climate protection. In the context of what has now been said, I would just like to mention that Hungary has now reduced its total greenhouse gas emissions by 19 percent compared to 2005. In Hungary, greenhouse gas emissions are 6 tonnes per capita compared to the European average of 8 tonnes per capita, and in fact greenhouse gas emissions have increased somewhat in Hungary over the last two years, thanks to economic growth. I think that one of the main objectives of the current second strategy on climate change is precisely to find the answers to how, in parallel to economic growth, we can shape our climate change activities in such a way that we also bear in mind the objectives of economic growth and climate protection. All I would like to add to the lobbying for German industry is that something very strange has been said here, namely, I personally participated in the environmental council meeting where we were talking about the new regulation on reducing emissions from pollution from motor vehicles, where the Hungarian Government supported the European Commission's balanced proposal, which served the joint objective of climate protection and the European automotive industry, and when the automotive industry contributes to Hungary's GDP to the extent that it contributes to Hungary's GDP, I think that this is in the interests of national interest, not the service of the German industrial lobby. Of course, it has been mentioned in both the detailed and the general debate that every strategy is worth what it is being implemented. I am convinced that this strategy will prove to be very valuable not only in terms of its merits and objectives, but also in terms of its implementation and results. One guarantee of this is the parliamentary resolution, which we hope will soon be adopted by the Parliament together with the strategy. According to the decision, within six months of the adoption of the document, the action plan for climate change should be drawn up, which provides for specific measures with deadlines, responsibilities and costs for the objectives set out in the strategy. So, as part of this process, all the will to do in the debate, everyone will be able to add their own ideas to this process. The Action Plan will also include an evaluation and monitoring system that will contribute to the successful achievement of efforts by providing continuous feedback. I also think it is important to mention that, although we are talking primarily about the climate change strategy within this framework, much more is being done against the negative effects of climate change. As an example, climate platforms established in the framework of the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, the upcoming county and municipal climate strategies can be mentioned, but I can also mention the recently formed alliance of county-righted cities, which is committed to activities and actions to achieve the objective of climate warming below 2 degrees Celsius. I would also like to point out here that on 8 October 2018 the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published its Special Report on the Effects of Global Warming at 1.5 degrees. The findings of the report are expected to have a major impact on future political negotiations, as this is stated in a document based on scientific studies and forecasts, first clearly and thoroughly confirming that keeping warming below 1.5 degrees is still an attainable goal, which requires radical and immediate changes, but has significantly less negative effects in almost all areas of the ecosystem than the climate that is heating up two degrees or higher. The document can serve as a decisive reference for our future planning. Last but not least, I think it is necessary to briefly mention the amendments tabled to the strategy. The amendments are purely technical and text-focusing, which primarily translates the latest available data into the strategy. As a result, the document will be updated with emission data for 2016, contain the latest meteorological data, provide up-to-date information on the use of revenues from emission quota sales, support for building energy modernisation and renewable energy. As a result of these changes, you can decide on a fully up-to-date document. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Combating the negative effects of climate change is a priority for all of us. Its success has a fundamental and lasting impact on the quality of life of future generations. That is why I call on the honourable Parliament to support the second national strategy for climate change in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-285	Thank you, Secretary Kaderjak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.50]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/869. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-10-29-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise I won't take 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 October 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2005 CLXIV on Trade. T/869. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal, the summary report by the committee of the House Rule 46. It adopted it by 33 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. As is known, several wholesale companies selling daily consumer goods before 2015 have consistently demonstrated their results in Hungary in addition to profitable operations, probably due to tax optimisation, thereby significantly damaging the Hungarian budget. The government, recognizing unfair intent, introduced a ban on loss-making operations. According to this regulation, a company with more than half of its net turnover coming from the retail sale of a daily consumer goods and having a net turnover of HUF 15 billion for each business year in two consecutive financial years, but with a negative or zero result for both financial years, shall not be allowed to carry out any more business related to the retail sale of a daily consumer goods after the adoption of the accounts for the second financial year. The provision that will enter into force in 2015 is indisputablely successful, since companies that have produced negative results have since ended their farming in a positive way. Some companies have already achieved more than HUF 8 billion. Unfortunately, despite the above results, the European Commission has found that the regulation is not in line with certain EU provisions, which led to the examination of the Hungarian legislation under infringement procedures. The government has consistently advocated regulation, but the Commission has not been moved, so the amendment before us is necessary. Hopefully, companies that produce positive results thanks to regulation will not go back on the wrong path. If they do, I can assure this House that we will find a way to reinvigorate these companies. I would ask my fellow Members to support the amendment tomorrow. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-287	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Törő. I would like to ask the State Secretary, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, who is present on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to present his position now or at the end of the debate. [[Péter Cseresnyés: End of debate! Lajos Rig: It's now or never!]] It indicates that at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, No one has applied for a representative's speech. I'll ask him if he's... [[For signal:]] Yes, I can see Congressman Attila Mesterházy on the screen, MSZP. The date...
u2018-10-29-288	[[Without sound:]] I thought it was going to create a huge debate...
u2018-10-29-289	You have the floor.
u2018-10-29-290	[[They're gonna turn on his mike.]] ...this is today's presentation, and therefore I have waited politely for the pre-notified speakers, but since this is not the case, let me say a few thoughts about this, and the only aspect of it is that it is a correction of an earlier law. We have said several times, Mr Secretary of State, that even if a goal is right, which is about how to help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises within a given sector, it does not matter what means the government wants to achieve this. If you choose the wrong device, it may fall back on your head. On the other hand, the choice of this bad instrument has also resulted in no effectiveness, no result of this decision at that time, as in recent years we have not received news in various analyses or surveys about how much these small and medium-sized animals, rather small enterprises or micro-enterprises, are growing in Hungary, but about how these family businesses are ending and falling apart. This is because in many small settlements these shops have ceased, while it was expected that a larger chain of stores, a foreign chain of stores, would not maintain any facility, because it does not generate enough profits in a small village. Compared to this, it could have been expected that if there was a set of government measures supported by a proper incentive, these stores might have been preserved for the Hungarian countryside. And perhaps up here, in Budapest or in larger cities, many do not understand, they understand the degree of vascular cut in smaller settlements. I could also say that this is a question of equal opportunities, as there are many other issues that could be dissected. I asked the Ministry of State Secretary-General a number of questions, for example regarding Wi-Fi availability or mobile network coverage, about why the Hungarian government does not encourage the Hungarian government to provide a minimum level of service for smaller settlements, villages, Hungarian countryside, which you refer to a great deal, in these services, whether it is a pharmacy, a broadband internet or a variety of shops, not to mention that there should be a minimum level of public health care that we maintain with Hungarian state support or incentives, just so that citizens who live there do not feel like second-class citizens just because they were born in a village or in the countryside. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-291	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-10-29-292	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you, which was submitted in the previous cycle, concerns the loss-making operation of wholesale companies selling daily consumer goods, CLXIV of 2005 on trade. repeals the statutory ban. Our fellow Member, Mesterházy, said that this was not a success, questioned its effectiveness. It has to be said that the regulation was successful, since, on the basis of the public reports of the largest retail chains, businesses that had been loss-making several times before 2014 have consistently completed their business years with positive results, sometimes with billions of forints, before which there were several international trade chains that have generated losses over the years, Tesco, Spar, Auchan or Lidl. In the expozee and in the original debate, this was said several times about what these companies were. Since then, the years have been kept to a positive conclusion. The ban also curbed the possibility for high-capital companies to depress prices to make it completely impossible for their competitors to maintain a fair behaviour from their profits and to abuse their dominant position in the market after their exclusion. So in this respect, too, the regulation was successful, and this type of activity could not be carried out by large multinational companies in Hungarian trade. In order to address EU legal concerns, we are now asking for the ban to be imposed with the support of this House, but this does not mean that we will give up the protection and support of fair domestic retail operators, including a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. This remains our goal, and we will do everything in our power to support them. The new solution is already included in the submitted bill: the proposed amendment will introduce mandatory tax control of companies operating at a loss according to our plans. In such a modified form, this important tool for whitening the economy and protecting the enforcement companies will be sustainable. Based on the experience of application, we intend to consider the need and justification for further tightening up within a short period of time. [[20.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the introduction of a ban on loss-making operations by adopting a comprehensive proposal for an amendment to the bill, in the light of the new instrument that has just been presented to protect fair competition in the market and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-293	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. Act and Act XLV of 2008 on the non-court procedures of individual notaries. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/1658. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-10-29-294	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 October 2018, the annual XLI on notaries was discussed. Act and Act XLV of 2008 on the non-court procedures of individual notaries. T/1658. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 5 abstentions. The notary profession, as an institution of public credibility, is undergoing considerable transformation today. It is extremely important for law-seeking citizens to meet their needs so that the notary institution retains and strengthens its existing authority. We also consider the proposal to be supported because the practical observations made to Parliament by the notary Chamber of notaries were incorporated by the government into the regulation of the given area. The proposal introduces significant modernisation and flexibility in individual procedures, including disciplinary, incompetence and chamber electoral procedures, as well as the introduction of a career review and changes to the legal framework for notaries' employment. However, the proposal before us includes a number of technical amendments aimed at facilitating compliance with changed operating conditions. The bill submitted by the Minister of Justice, incorporating professional needs, will make the work of those who carry out the activities of the legal service more efficient and speedier, and will serve as a further goal to improve the level of notarial procedures and at the same time to relieve the burden of courts. Promoting, ensuring and maintaining the effective functioning of justice is a fundamental interest in a rule of law and, with the support of this proposal, this objective can be achieved. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP faction association supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-29-295	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. The Secretary of State, Pál Völner, who is represented by the rapporteur, indicates that he intends to make use of the opportunity to speak later. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik.
u2018-10-29-296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What our fellow Member Imre Vejkey said is that the bill introduces a lot of innovations, innovations that really make notary procedures more up-to-date, and I even think that the government, as has been before, has been very gallant with notaries. Why is it that the Jobbik faction, unfortunately, will answer no to this bill? In view of what I do not understand today, why it had to be included in this otherwise very modern proposal, and this is point 131. Paragraph 3, which is essentially about the fact that Article 120 applies. Paragraph 1 (a), (b), (d), (e) and (f), Article 122 § 123 § 128, Art. § (a) and 129. Pursuant to points (e) and (f) of the first subparagraph, documents in respect of which these passes have been infringed may only be contested within five years. Mr Völner, State Secretary, we have met on several occasions on this issue, and on each occasion he reassured me that there is no harm in the interests of citizens, or that this is not contrary to the rules of civil law. I hoped that, to this day, this proposal would be withdrawn, but, after this has not happened, I am therefore obliged to list the reasons which, in effect, mean that this legislation is contrary to the provisions of the Civil Code on nullity. Allow me to explain this in a few words. The Civil Code, Book Six, number 88. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 states that the null and void contract is invalid from the date of its conclusion and must be detected ex officio. Then book six is 94. § 2 states that if a law requires a public document to be incorporated into a public instrument or a private document with full evidentiary effect, or a transfer of the property ownership of the contract, the amendment, termination or termination of the contract without compulsory formalities is also null and void. Book Six, 95. §2 of the Act provides that a contract which is contrary to law or which has been concluded by circumventing the law is null and void. The contract for Book Six is null and void 96. According to Article 4 of the Act, even if it is a matter of good morals. Book Six, 99. §2 of the Act provides that it is null and void if the consumer undertakes to provide a claim, to transfer ownership or other rights or to establish a right of purchase. Book Six is also null and void 103. Article 105 of the Sixth Book, based on unfair terms. § 2 of the Act provides for an action in the public interest for unfair GTC that nullity is the consequence of the law. But anyone can say why this means that the attack on notary documents is contrary to these called laws. Then I'll tell you this. That's 120. § (1) in the notary law, it is the duty of the notary to ascertain the party's ability to do business, eligibility and purpose. What does that mean? It means that in the event that you were not sure and the counterparty was not able to enter into a transaction, you did not have the right or intention to do so, whether you like it or not, the contract will be void. I just called Ptk. its proper rules on the fact that the legal consequence of the null and void contract is that it is invalid with retroactive effect, but this legislation, which the government now intends to have voted on, would mean that it is true that the Ptk is true. On the basis of the contract, if the notary did not perform this task, but because it is registered in a notary document, it can only be enforced within five years, not as a general consequence of nullity, at any time, without a time limit and of its own motion. Or if it's 120. Paragraph 1 (1) (b), where it is said that the party must be informed of the substance and the legal consequences of the transaction, and according to point (e), the document corresponds to the party's will. Well, if it turns out that he didn't receive any information or knowledge of the legal consequences, or that he doesn't comply with his will, and it's in a notary document, then he can't practice nullity under the civil code because it's registered in a notary document. [[20.10]] Such contrast should not be between two pieces of legislation. On this issue, the ruling law is the civil code, and in practice it takes the consequences of the civil code and highlights it from a notary law. That's impossible! This means that everyone will have to include his contract will in a private document of maximum probative value, because if this happens with a notary document, he cannot enforce nullity beyond five years. Or I'll go further: 122. § 123 states in the notary law that the person must be identified. § 2 provides for the application of the witness of identity. If it turns out that the witness of identity was unfit for certification, but it is registered in a notary document, and this, after a legal transaction has been brought into breach of law, is otherwise null, but because it is registered in a notary document, can the party attack within five years? You have to think about these relationships. We need to see and apply the law on a systemic basis, and we cannot put citizens in a position where, at some point in time, it turns out that he has suffered a disadvantage... a certain malpractice of the will, a lack of ability to do business, possibly the inadequacy of the witness in the transaction, and perhaps, for example, I just say, the 128/A. § 1 states in the notary law that the company's establishment, registered office and branch property, when it is sold, must be complied with, and that the notary must discover that the transaction can indeed be concluded, and then, because it is registered in a notary deed, later it turns out that all this was not justified, that the person who suffers an injury may not at any time, without any time, rely on the nullity reason that it was committed in breach of the law. I have hoped in recent weeks that the judicial government will see that, whether you like it or not, knowing that the judges are doing so, even though you may say it for the third time today, Mr. Secretary of State Völner in the minutes that this does not violate the legal consequences of nullity in Ptk, it will be in the caselaw, it is written in the notary law that it can only be enforced within five years for such and such a reason, despite writing the Ptk., applying the lex specialis, it is in the notary law, and then most of all it cannot be enforced. Who will explain to the particular citizen that, please, in October 2018, State Secretary Völner himself said at a committee meeting and two parliamentary plenary sessions that this does not in any way violate the legislation on the nullity of the civil code? Yes, you are. While nullity is the legal consequence of a criminal transaction or transaction by circumventing the law, it doesn't matter whether it was done in private documents, notary documents or verbally because the oral contract is also valid for certain transactions, then we have actually come to the point where it is adversely affected by the application of the legal consequences of those who conclude this in front of a notary. However, in the meantime, the Civil Code grants everyone, on the basis of equal treatment, the right of that legal consequence, whose transaction has violated or bypassed a contract. Or there is a mistake of will, although it is a fact that will error can be challenged within a year under certain conditions, but we cannot leave such an uncertain legal situation, or at least not create such an uncertain legal situation in Parliament. And I have to say, I simply don't understand that the judicial government is putting forward such a beautiful, absolute modern, fully adapted legislative proposal to today's living conditions, to the characteristics of the notary system, which would be happily voted by virtually every opposition party, and putting in a pass that one tells you to stand for, not this. Not this one! Or not like this! Or please explain in such detail in the explanatory statement that this will not apply to this and that we can give a reassuring answer to this question. So it's not too late, and I'm still asking the judicial government to take this pass out now, to discuss with each other what the government intended to do with this 131. § (3), a new paragraph, let's talk about it, not to be contrary to Ptk. We would really be able to vote calmly and with the utmost respect and affection for this notary amendment, because the balance of life requires it, but because of this uncertain legal situation that this section would create, and unfortunately only together, we cannot vote on all the amendments to the law at the same time, we cannot accept it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] , a new paragraph, let's talk it out, let's not go against Ptk. We would really be able to vote calmly and with the utmost respect and affection for this notary amendment, because the balance of life requires it, but because of this uncertain legal situation that this section would create, and unfortunately only together, we cannot vote on all the amendments to the law at the same time, we cannot accept it. Thank you very much. (Applause in Jobbik's ranks. )
u2018-10-29-297	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2018-10-29-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I very much agree with Andrea Varga-Damm, who before me, who, by the way, explained very in detail what kind of problems she has with the specific stages and what fears she has. My problem is that this has also been said in the general debate, and there have been no satisfactory answers on this issue since then. This is indeed one of the problems with the proposal, in addition to the fact that it contains a number of innovations that would otherwise be eligible. It is amazing that a day before the vote, these are still open questions. However, I raised one more question in the general debate, to which no reply was also received, and I would rather say a few thoughts on this. From 1 October, there would have been a significant increase in charges in the area of notary services. This rate increase has been postponed, by the way, regulated by an IM regulation. If my information is correct, they intend to bring this new Regulation into force from 1 January 19 and to set new tariffs. It occurred to me in the debate that these notary fees are often a very heavy burden for citizens, and obviously, on the basis of the events of recent years, many people experience these charges as a burden, and, let me say, they go to the notaries in a tense manner, even once, let us say, in the case of a larger loan. This affects the fate of many families with a difficult fate, so we suggested that we look at the issue of fees together with this legislation. Let this regulation be one that, let us say, gives families with lower incomes a significant discount on different services. We couldn't talk about it either. I don't see anything in public life about this information slowly now, if I count it correctly, this decree will enter into force in two months from Thursday, so it has further increased our doubts about the proposal. The request in the general debate was very clear, if I remember correctly, not only on my part, but also on the question of raising notary fees, and we did not hear anything about it, so let me assess this as a big deficit one day before the vote. In these circumstances, because of what has been said before me, and therefore, we cannot join in supporting the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-299	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who, on behalf of the authors, will respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-10-29-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For Andrea Varga-Damm: Act on notaries 130/A. § 2 of the Act states that, the issue of the instrument does not prevent the enforcement of civil law claims relating to the content of the legal act which is contained in it or which forms the basis for the declaration in the authentic instrument or which results from an act arising on the basis of it. This is the only thing I can repeat to the congresswoman that she does not overwrite the Ptk. is this kind of amendment. To raise my fellow Member Varga's point on the fee regulation: it is not Parliament's competence to discuss government regulations and ministerial regulations. Technically, as it appeared in the press, these will be renegotiated, and the level of the current levels will be established by 1 January after the negotiations. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.20]]
u2018-10-29-301	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain industrial property laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/1659. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-10-29-302	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 October this year, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1659 amending certain industrial property laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 31 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 4 abstentions. In short, I would like to highlight some important criteria for the mark as the most important indication. The trade mark makes it possible to distinguish certain goods and services from other goods and services. This indication establishes a link between the manufacturer and its goods, the service and its performer. The trade mark has a very important economic function, since it is based on its distinctive character on competition between competitors, as well as on consumer information and choice between different goods and services. It does not constitute a legal guarantee of the good quality of the goods or services in itself, but its owner has a fundamental interest in ensuring the good quality of the goods or services it produces in the long term. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal before us aims to ensure the coherence of industrial property protection protection. It is the obligation of the legislator to comply with its obligations of harmonisation under the European Union directive in the framework of the trade mark reform. Furthermore, after hearing the opinions of professional organisations, there is a need to amend the rules on trade mark proceedings in order to ensure faster and more efficient administration. In addition, it is also necessary to amend national rules on interconnection in the light of international legislation. Finally, the amendment of the detailed rules under the Electronic Administration Act is an essential condition for ensuring quick and simple administration. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can therefore see the importance of the trade mark in economic life, but it is only able to fulfil its function within the framework of the trade mark. Therefore, the adequacy of the legislation of this indication is of particular importance. The present bill is supported by the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, because it is a well-thought-out proposal, which integrates professional needs. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-29-303	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. The national State Secretary indicates that he wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2018-10-29-304	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal to amend the Industrial Rights Act is very modern, although it is very often said that all those who wish to violate some law, even the rules of industrial property protection, are always a little ahead of the legislator. But it is undisputed that many developments in the economy and research and development over the past decades have justified the need to modernise the rules of industrial property protection at EU and global level, including at national level, so that new challenges, in particular new works created by electronic procedures, can be regulated and interpreted.In 1883, industrial property rights were covered by the Paris Convention. Technically, even then, the development of industry required that some kind of uniform system, some kind of legal framework, be defined in the protection of industrial property rights and even this concept be created, and since then it has developed unbrokenly as industry and science have evolved. On 12 January 2016, the date of entry into force of this Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. It was a legislative harmonisation decision on the part of the European Parliament and of the Council which established a single regulation. How difficult the work was: in 2008 the decision was made to create this EU normative, and it certainly took so much time to do so, because there was a huge number of factors, procedures and the areas of economic life and research and development that had to be assessed, it had to be discovered that this directive really provided real protection in the field of industrial property protection. World economic competition and modernisation require a constant renewal of the industrial property protection system. This proposal now seeks to comply with this. The merger of the modern economy with R &amp; D activities has been proven many times, and this proposal, which lies before us, is precisely intended to enable paper-based submissions to take place in electronic form, for example, especially with the aim of protecting works created in the form of computer signals. This proposal strengthens the efficient, fast and customer-friendly nature of trade mark proceedings, and while we are certainly still lagging behind against offenders, we hope that it will provide at least one coherent legal framework in which beneficiaries of industrial property protection can effectively defend their interests and rights, and that this protection will indeed be created in Hungary, in line with the new challenges. Of course, the Jobbik faction will vote in favour of this proposal, since it took not only at EU level, but also at national level, two years to put forward and integrate EU directives into the existing legislation in such a way that it is absolutely targeted and in the interests of legal protection. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-29-305	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-10-29-306	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Joining the previous solo, I would like to say that it is a right and a good initiative to put legal instruments in the hands of different companies in order to protect their own products and intellectual products. Indeed, it can be a good tool. But in this connection, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one thing, or perhaps to put it as a question. If there is such a mark, it is worth something if there is a consequence of an infringement of this mark or of a product protected by industrial law. So, on one hand, it is good to speed up this procedure, which Mr Vejkey said in his speech, but on the other hand, the control must be strengthened at the same time. The fact that there is a paper on something does not yet protect the rights of honest traders and producers. In English a fair competition is included in the audit. If there is a means to measure whether or not a person treats these goods fairly, then, of course, this can be effective if there is a stronger control. I don't know what this government has in mind. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-307	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the authors. [[20.30]]
u2018-10-29-308	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the comments and during the debate for the support that the parties have shown and the factions. Mr Mesterházy's question: the trade mark exists, it is not just a declaration. Of course, procedures with sanctions and penalties for those who do not respect the trade mark will be launched for notification. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-309	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the initiative to declare Székelys as a national population group in Hungary follows a debate. H/2158 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2018-10-29-310	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Speaker of Parliament on 9 October 2018, the Committee on Justice decided to submit a proposal for a decision on the initiative to declare the Szeklers as a national ethnic group in Hungary. In this motion, the Judicial Committee proposed to the Parliament not to support the declaration of the Hungarian community of Szeklers as a indigenous ethnic group. The Judicial Committee has formulated its proposal on the basis of a position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to examine compliance with the legislation with due diligence, also understanding the positions expressed by the various organisations of the Székely community. The general discussion of the proposal for a decision was held by the Parliament on 16 October 2018 with the active involvement of my fellow Members. Both the ruling parties and the opposition have expressed a unanimous position on the issue, namely that the Szeklery is part of the Hungarian nation, and this de facto historical fact has not been rewritten by any parliamentary group. This is the consensus that is extremely important for Hungarians. This consensual basis was also reflected by the fact that no amendments were tabled by its representatives. The Judicial Committee held a detailed discussion as a committee designated at its meeting on 24 October 2018 and, without an amendment, only had to make a specific decision on whether the proposal for a decision complied with the regulatory provisions. The Judicial Committee unanimously took a vote in favour, without abstaining or voting against, so that the proposal for a decision complied with the house rules. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for your constructive attitude. In view of the above, both the committee and I propose that Parliament adopt the H/2158. A proposal for a decision. Please support the proposal for a resolution in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-311	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I will ask you if you wish to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-10-29-312	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that we regard the Szeklery as an integral part of the Hungarians, so we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-313	Thank you very much, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-10-29-314	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Not to be taken into consideration, what Peter Ungár said and what was in Mr Vejkey's sentences, but if it is about the Szeklery, you have used the Szeklery as a political tool on several occasions. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to it, as I see and understand the basis of consensus and the reason for it, but it is worth paying attention to the fact that, where appropriate, other issues can and must be addressed in the same way. For our part, we in the faction have decided to support this proposal, but perhaps it is appropriate to apply this kind of attitude in a similar way to other subjects. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-315	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2018-10-29-316	Mr President, Very briefly, I just want to thank you once again for your constructive contribution to all the factions and the independents. I'm asking you to support me with your vote tomorrow. Thank you.
u2018-10-29-317	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate of the Commission's report on the initiative to declare the Russian community a national ethnic group in Hungary follows. H/2159 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-318	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 9 October 2018, at the request of Mr. Speaker of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament, he meditated on the submission of a proposal for a decision on the initiative of the Russian community to become a national ethnic group in Hungary. In this motion, the Judicial Committee proposed to the Parliament not to support the declaration of the Russian community as a indigenous ethnic group in Hungary. The Judicial Committee has based its proposal on a sufficiently thorough position on compliance with the legislation of the MTA. In the present case, as in the Szeklers issue, the MTA has examined compliance with the legislation with due diligence and found that while the Russians in Hungary have institutions for the maintenance of language and culture, it is difficult to justify the continued presence of the indigenous ethnic groups for at least one century. The Judicial Committee held a detailed discussion as a committee designated at its meeting on 24 October 2018. The committee also heard and discussed the pro-active arguments at the meeting. With all this in mind and consideration, he has established his position. The general debate of the resolution proposal was held by the Parliament on 16 October 2018. Both the pro-government and opposition representatives acknowledged the cultural and linguistic identity of the Russian community, but the academic position regarding their presence in Hungary for at least 100 years was already divided, but no amendments were tabled to the motion. The Judicial Committee held a detailed discussion as a committee appointed at its meeting on 24 October 2018 and held with 9 votes in favour and 2 abstentions that the proposal for a decision complied with the regulatory provisions. [[20.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I also thank you for your constructive attitude in this regard. In view of the above, I propose to the Parliament that the H/2559 be adopted by both the committee and myself. A proposal for a decision. I would ask you to support this proposal for a resolution in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Varga Simeon applauds.]]
u2018-10-29-319	Thank you, Imre Vejkey, for your speech. I will ask you if you wish to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2018-10-29-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the resolution proposal.
u2018-10-29-321	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, MSZP.
u2018-10-29-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to comment very briefly on the subject, because during the general debate and, by the way, at the committee's meeting, I also gave my opinion, and I had a point of order, which was at the committee's meeting, so that, after hearing the initiative, we could create an opportunity at another meeting to challenge their position, where appropriate, with the position of the Academy, and to make a more mature decision. At this stage of the debate, the decision on this proposal for a resolution will be taken tomorrow, it is clear: I see that you will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision, and you will reject the initiative's request in Hungarian. However, taking into account the circumstances of the case, the MTA resolution, it can be expected that there will be a similar initiative within one and a half to two years, or that such an initiative may be possible; it is possible that other ethnic groups would also like to take initiatives in order to become a indigenous ethnic group. In this case, let us put on the table again that more than a thousand Hungarian citizens would like to live with a constitutional fundamental right as a community as a group of people. I therefore believe that this procedure, which has been conducted in a fully legal and orderly manner, should, however, be able to make this procedure fairer for the originators and that decision-making is better suited to conflicting opinions. Therefore, I would also like to ask Imre Vejkey, who is the chairman of the Justice Committee, and therefore also from the House, in fact, or from my fellow Members, to make a record of this in the minutes, in order to try to establish a fairer procedure in the future, something that is more interactively able, let us say, to prepare this proposal for a resolution within the framework of the Justice Committee, in order to meet all aspects. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-29-323	Thank you, Congressman Varga. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-10-29-324	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you a personal opinion. I think that the Russian minority deserved the right to become a recognised minority in Hungary, as Congressman Vejkey said, that they meet almost all the parameters. If I understand the presentation and the preliminary materials correctly, there is a parameter that has, moreover, been debatablely or at least debatable from the initiativer's side, this 100-year presence, whether it exists or not. As I recall, there have been indications of this since 1917. In addition, those who know history know that the Russian minority was previously held under the title of Ruthenians in the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. So it seems to me that the government is a conscious, if not an excuse, but in any way sought an opportunity to formally reject this initiative. I think the tradition, the time spent here, makes this proposal a legitimate request in any way. So for my part, I was a little surprised to note that, while the Hungarian government is proud of its excellent relationship with Russia, it can cooperate with oligarchs and others in a number of economic areas, in many cases it even rewrites the laws to ensure that the interests of Russia in Hungary can be clearly and in an obstacle course, then such a legitimate initiative, which is historically justified, does not exactly make sense to this splitting of hair. I thought that Prime Minister Orbán could have discussed this with President Putin on several occasions, and it will be possible now. So I really do not understand this rejection exactly, either on the basis of the parameter book or on the basis of the visible, fruitful and strong relationship between the two countries. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-325	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-10-29-326	Thank you so much for the floor. I would like to argue here with the socialist colleagues I deeply respect, that, although I agree with what my fellow Member Mesterházy said about the Hungarian-Russian relationship now, I think that it is historically wrong, for example, to bring Ruthenians or Ruthenians here. In addition, by raising everyone, of whom a hundred or two hundred people have been in Hungary in our last thousand-year history, to an indigenous minority, we would open a gate that we would not be able to close afterwards, and we would not be able to tell them who are indigenous minorities in Hungary. In Hungary there was no significant, historically significant Russian minority, so we believe that the government's proposal not to be in a minority position and not to be in a separate status is correct. And I hope that everyone will vote this way from the opposition. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-327	Thank you very much, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2018-10-29-328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the late hour, however, my colleague Peter Ungár's comment moved me to say a sentence. So we didn't mix the rustics. here It was a historical situation when, for various reasons, they did not want to be registered as Russian minorities. So it's not their fault, and they didn't ask for it. That's one of them. The other is that the number of minorities is constantly increasing. For example, a number of people have obtained Hungarian citizenship as Russian people and Russian citizens with a settlement obligation in Hungary. Many people live here too, their families live here, so this would give the people who arrived here with the settlement obligation an opportunity to fit in and integrate into Hungarian society by giving this minority existence and institutionalized minority existence a cultural and many other opportunities for Russian citizens. So in Hungarian, both respect for their traditions and respect for their religion, or even the ability to launch legal media, so it is not by means of hybrid warfare to represent the Russian interest in Hungary, but, indeed, legally, on the basis of minority publications financed directly by the Hungarian State and in a clear and transparent manner, that a certain position can be expressed. That is why I think that historically I think it is okay, and because of the actual policy, it would be okay for the Hungarian government to donate such a recognition to the Russian minority. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-329	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. There's plenty of time left. Congressman Peter Ungár!
u2018-10-29-330	Thank you very much for the floor. I think that my fellow Member Mesterházy is starting to convince me of the point of this right now, because, for example, Paks II. In connection with the project, many Russians have already appeared in Hungary, who are involved in the construction of this power plant, and it is undoubtedly true that if they had such an opportunity, they could, for example, maintain their own media instead of the Paks municipal media, and maintain their own schools without having to build private schools on public money, for example, to give hairdressers a public discount so that the hairdresser will learn Russian, thus increasing the famous Hungarian supplier rate. Despite that, I think we're a little off the subject here. But I am very pleased that my fellow Member Mesterházy has given me the inspiration to talk again about Paks II, and I hope that this debate will continue to be so inspiring.
u2018-10-29-331	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. I'll ask if there's anyone else in the remaining time frame... [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Congressman Attila Mesterházy!
u2018-10-29-332	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd like to use this one minute and 50 seconds to make no jokes, although there was some irony in what I said, it's perfectly natural. So the part of whether this minority is entitled to be a minority recognised in Hungary, I think that I think it is a legitimate expectation, now repeating my previous position. And it's a little hairy to refer to the year and a half, because, as Congressman László Varga said, then in a year and a half this initiative will be back on our table, right and right. [[20.50]] I am sure that more opportunities could have been given in the procedural order to present their own arguments by those who initiated it. But I wanted to point out in the debate that it is funny that the Hungarian government is doing this to the Russian minority in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-333	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I'll ask you again if anyone else wants to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Commission, the rapporteur.
u2018-10-29-334	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to respond to what my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy has said. You are wrong, my fellow Member, when you say that the government did not give this to the Russian minority. Hungary is a rule of law. This is not a question of surrender or surrender, it is a question of what cogens' legislation requires. And there it is mandatory to require a 100-year-old presence. And obviously, it is not necessary to establish in a crevice how long a ethnic group has been in Hungary, but it has a dedicated institution, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which finds this or does not establish it in its expert opinion. In the present case, it did not establish a 100-year-old nationality. The direct consequence of this is that, no matter how much anyone wanted to declare him a minority, he could not have done so because he would have violated the law. My fellow Member, László Varga, has indeed made a point of order before the Justice Committee. We voted on the order of business proposal and voted against it, once again on the basis of the expert opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which explained in full detail why we did not have this hundred years. And although the author made his own point, we believe that the position of the independent Hungarian Academy of Sciences was stronger than the position of the author, that is why the Judicial Committee decided and made this proposal for a decision. Once again, I would like to ask you to support this proposal for a resolution and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-10-29-335	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. The Bulgarian nationalist Varga Simeon applied for a post-municipal speech:. October 19th with the title "Magyar Üdvösségségségségség nap" I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-10-29-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself. As a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to inform the National Assembly about the series of celebrations held on the occasion of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Let me also thank all those who helped and supported the event series in Hungary. October 19 is of paramount importance in Bulgaria's holiday calendar and already in Hungary. On this day we celebrate the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship, which is the day of Csodádévő Rilai Szent János, the saint of the Orthodox Church and the patron saint of Bulgaria. The saint is also considered a miracle worker in Hungary, because his relic also proved his supernatural power in the Basilica of Esztergom III. During King Bela's reign. In 2016, he celebrated the centennial anniversary of the founding of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary, when the Parliament of the two countries unanimously declared 19 October a day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. This year, the ceremony was held for the third time, which Hungary hosted for the second time in various locations, with colourful programs, organized by the Bulgarian nationality and their institutions. On the early afternoon of October 18, the varied programs began with the presentation of Vaszil Mutafov's book The Hand of Fate, and the exhibition of pictures of Bulgarian artists in Hungary in the B44 Gallery. The most outstanding event of the series of celebrations of 19 October was the inauguration of the Bulgarian gardening fountain in Szigetszentmiklós in front of the city library, which was created in honor of Bulgarian gardeners in Hungary. In the Palace of Arts, the evening gala concert of the Bulgarian National Radio People's Orchestra gave a taste of the wonderful rhythm and sound of Bulgarian folk music. Several Members of Parliament appeared at the gala concert, as well as state institutions represented themselves. On 20 October, the Bulgarian community in Hungary left for the basilica in Esztergom. Before the memorial plaque of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship, the flowers of commemoration were placed, symbolizing the friendship of the two peoples until the end of time. In honor of the ceremony, a visit was made from Bulgaria by Deputy President Iliyana Yotova and Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov. The delegation was welcomed by Miklós Soltész, State Secretary responsible for religious, ethnic relations and support for persecuted Christians and Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The meeting of high-ranking state leaders provided an opportunity for political exchanges, exchanges of experience, political convictions and the formulation of the European political values of the two countries, the strengthening of the willingness to cooperate on European issues, and not least the expression of mutual participation in strategic investments for Bulgarian nationality. The parties thanked each other for maintaining bilateral relations and stood up for the importance of friendship day. They mentioned that there is a great need for joint cooperation in preserving our Christian values in today's Europe. The Bulgarian politicians thanked Hungary for providing all the help and support for the Bulgarian community in Hungary. The Deputy President of the Republic of Bulgaria solemnly stated that Bulgaria is ready to give all the help to the Bulgarian community in order to reopen the Bulgarian-Hungarian primary school. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary and the Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, for ensuring the survival of the Bulgarian community in Hungary and the development of its traditional aspirations by making available the resources of nationality. I thank the government of Bulgaria for supporting the survival of our community in Hungary with its cross-border policy. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2018-10-29-337	Thank you very much for Varga Simeon's statement after the Bulgarian minority spokesperson's agenda. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. Next up is Zoltán Fenyvesi, representative of Fidesz:, 750 years old Nemeszulács. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Veszprém county itself and 217 settlements each have a significant historical history, cultural richness, touristic and economic significance, but the Tapolca Basin, the Balaton Uplands, also excels with its geographical and natural beauty. From the natural and geographically beautiful pool, the basalt mountain, Gulács, candy glass, emerges with an organically connected Nemesgulas of about 1000 people. Nemesgulas is an ancient settlement. For the first time, in 1268 the memos appeared in the written documents here. At this time there were two Gulács, later we find three Gulács names, Lower, Upper and Middle Gulács. These names formed the name of Nemesgulács, a settlement inhabited by nobles. The pre-member of the name of the village is a reference to the fact that in the Middle Ages the settlement was inhabited by the majority of the small nobles. The name of the village comes from the name of the Ómagyar. [[21.00]] During the Turkish wars, the village was destroyed and its resettlement began from 1715. At that time the nobles were replaced by peasants. In 1720 it was already considered a privileged noble village. In 1790 the names of 29 noble families were known, and the families Raposa, Péterffy and Edvi Illés held a relationship with the Belgian royal family. In 1895, the only holder of over 100 moons was Miklós Eőry, who traditionally served here was Rozi Répa, the famous bastard of Sobri Jóska. Dezső Keresztury spent his childhood and youth in the Eőry mansion in Noble Gulács, and later the kindergarten was located in this building. Although the writer was born in Zalaegerszeg, his family relations on the mother's side were linked to Nemesgulács, from 1918 he considered this village his home. He's the name of the local school today. The shield of the current coat of arms of Nemesgulas is the Gulács Hill next to the village and the grapes representing the wines growing here. The two largest mountains of the Tapolca Basin, from the top of Badacsony and St. George's Hill, are a wonderful sight, and we can enjoy the unforgettable panorama from the Keszthely Mountains and the Balaton Highlands to Somló. Not only the past, the history is honorable, but also the present and the future. It's nice to see the clean streets, the neat dust, the building of family houses. The village is beautiful, it is developing, its inhabitants feel the village, they are proud of their settlement as local patriots. The winemakers working on the mountain not only find a living in the vineyards, but also enjoy the fact that the quality Balaton Uplands wines are a popular and happy drink of tourists. We thank the settlement for its two-and-a-half-century preservation of the historical past and the Hungarian Christian European culture. I wish the inhabitants of Nemesgulács and those on the mountain will find their prosperity and happiness in the centuries to come. Happy Birthday to the 750-year-old Nemessulcs and its inhabitants. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-29-339	Thank you, Congressman. Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP, also applied for an after-the-date address:. What about the firefighters? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-29-340	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Now that the Ministry of Interior is submitting another legislative package, unfortunately a salad law to Parliament again, I think it is very important to talk again about the organisations under the control of the Ministry of Interior. Tonight, I'd like to talk specifically about the fire department, the fire department. First of all, let me say that it is very regrettable that they serve in the context of disaster protection, and in essence the government has abolished the independent fire department in recent years. To this day, we insist that this organisation should be able to operate independently. Let us look at the challenges faced by people who, as firefighters, serve the safety of people every day, the safety of families. They're at the scene of accidents, and they're saving people. They're at the burned-out buildings, and they're saving the families from there. They work under very difficult conditions and under extreme stress. The problems affect the level of salary, the replacement training, how many people are involved in the fire department and in disaster management, as are the problems with equipment, the lack of early retirement and the reorganisations that are taking place, and what is ad hoc, I would say that life is throwing, but unfortunately, not, but bad government decisions. For example, I am thinking about the role that disaster management will play in chimney sweeping and now waste disposal. So, in this way, this will obviously affect the functioning of the organization. I would also like to point out that it has been a great pleasure that the Defence and Police Committee has accepted the LMP's legislative amendment proposal that, even after 1 January 2019, the staff of law enforcement agencies can continue to receive in money the remuneration for overtime and not only be redeemed in freedom. If they had only been able to change it in freedom, the problem would have been that it would have been almost impossible to organise the service. But the thing about the fire department is that, on the basis of commander's decisions, they get the most freedom to pay overtime. This would certainly need to be changed, so I would like to ask the government, and I regret that no one from the government is sitting here at the moment, but they will certainly read the minutes to allow firefighters to redeem overtime in money. I would like to list a few points on what measures should be taken to improve the conditions of firefighters, to ensure that working conditions are adequate and to achieve a stable, forward-looking career. On the one hand, the independent fire department must be restored organisationally and professionally. I would like to emphasise the emergency response here because I hope that we will still eliminate the disaster, not protect it for the more efficient use of resources, it would be essential to place it under the same Ministry's direction as the defence, while restoring the independence of the fire department. There is a need for a new law of service, limiting over-service and over-work, and guaranteeing a new type of socially fair early retirement pension scheme that encourages further service, while compensating for both legal restrictions and huge health needs. The shortage of staff needs to be filled and the effective institution of recruitment should be ensured so that as many people choose this career as possible. It is necessary to restore the status, pension status of beneficiaries of service by removing the 15% deduction and by developing a new type of pension scheme. To date, the salary of firefighters is calculated from the HUF 38 650 civil servant salary fund, which has not increased for many years now. We insist that this salary should be raised to HUF 60,000, and that the civil servant pay table should be arranged in such a way that it is above all linked to the minimum wage. Technical modernisation of the fire department is essential. It can't happen that the boiler in the fire department doesn't work and they can't start the fire truck. Professional aspects must be taken into account when purchasing equipment and clothing, as well as the restoration of trade union licenses and the provision of resources for this. I would very much ask the government actors to take action to achieve these goals. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-341	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, also applied for a post-scheduled speech entitled "The Queen of the West." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-342	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to start by saying that Csaba Hende, elected parliamentary representative of Szombathely, has still not been able to speak in this House for the sake of the city. I'm sure you have other things to do. For example, recently the award ceremony where the prize winners were asked to receive prizes had to conduct the participation of that award ceremony, so he did not have time to speak about the problem I was about to tell in Parliament, showing that he does not represent the interests of the Saturday locals in Fidesz, but represents the interests of Fidesz in Szombathely. Let us start by saying that this is not only the problem of Szombathely and Vas counties, but also the geographical characteristic of the entire region of Western Hungary, that the proximity of the Austrian border is very important here. We know that today this does not mean that people go to Felsőőőr to buy, but now it's the other way round, because of the depressed prices, because of the depressed prices compared to Austria, they come to Hungary to buy from Austria. But many people in Western Hungary have their children enrolled in both primary and secondary schools in Austria, Burgenland, near the border, showing how well Hungarian public education is. But there are more people who commute, so they work in Burgenland, eastern Austria, and either on weekends or every night they go back to West Hungary to sleep with their families. There are thousands of such commuters, we still do not know the exact number, among other things, because the government does not give out the exact number of them, probably because it would be more than they would admit. [[21.10]] The Austrian State recently made a decision to close 35 smaller border crossing points at the Austrian-Hungarian border. Actually, it's a poetic exaggeration to close, because you can still cross them by horse, foot or bicycle, but not by motor vehicle. Relatively few will cross these border crossings with horses or on foot, so we can actually say that they are closed from use. Moreover, if a person crosses or attempts to cross these border crossings by motor vehicles, he will receive a fine of EUR 2180. That's a pretty substantial fine. But how do I put this? It is also a parody part of the story that the Austrian Government justified these closures by illegal migration. This is also very interesting, because I hear in this room sixty-seven times a week that the government has already stopped illegal migration at the southern border, so I do not understand exactly why the right-wing Austrian government, which is also an alliance with the government, closes a significant part of the Austrian-Hungarian border because of illegal migration. It's either because it hasn't been established or because it doesn't exist in this case. The question is whether the government, the very freedom fighter and very aggressive Hungarian foreign policy are planning to do anything in order to ensure that commuting workers who work in the eastern part of Austria because of the situation of the Hungarian economy do not still have to make life difficult, because they see little of their families and travel for several hours every day in order to find employment in another country is not a normal state. So my question to me is whether, among other things, Csaba Hende, Péter Ágh or Zsolt V. Németh would like to put pressure on the government at any level in this matter, or whether the government would like to do anything at any level about the Austrian government to change this situation. But since no one here from the government respected us with his presence, this is a more rhetorical question than a concrete question, but like my fellow Member, I hope that Csaba Hende will read this report at night. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-29-343	Thank you very much, Congressman. Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Veszprém 01. Constituencies with the title "Development." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-344	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There are many charges against the government that small settlements are not developing. This was also the case in today's debate, which is why I think it is very important that I tell you about the developments in the 1st constituency of Veszprém County. I would like to point out that in my constituency, besides the county seat, there is continuous work in small settlements and that there is great progress. We are very lucky, since excellent mayors organize the lives of all 25 settlements. Particular attention is paid to taking advantage of any opportunity to help their settlement develop, whether it be cultural, social, infrastructure or recreational investment. Perhaps there is no settlement in the constituency where there is no development right now. The leaders of the settlements have surveyed the strengths, weaknesses, and have set out a path to strengthen their settlements to flourish. Allow me to list some of the projects that will be carried out soon without the need for completeness. A tourist development is taking place in Bándon and Jásdon. In Chetény it is also a tourist development and the development of an industrial park. Dudaron has two group-bedroom nurserys in progress. The preparations for building a gym in Hajmáskért are underway. Herend is the implementation of the green city programme. Lókút sidewalk building, Kislődön energy modernisation in primary school, Nemesvámos new kindergarten and sports hall construction, in Italy the development of precipitation water drainage, Öskün industrial park development, Úrkút and Tésen energy development, in Sóly the renovation of the medical practice and in Szápár the construction of a nursery is underway. I would also like to talk about some improvements that have been handed over this month without the need for completeness. In Kislőd, Bakonynána, Márkón and Szentgalen the outdoor sports fields were handed over, which the inhabitants of Kislőd took over with great enthusiasm. The government's intention has long been to create community spaces where every generation can actively relax and play sports, thus strengthening the coherence of local communities. A newly renovated, barrier-free building is now available for the staff of the family support service herenden, and for the mayor's office in Öskün. Öskün also renewed energy development in primary school, as well as classrooms and furniture. These investments are all aimed at keeping the population in place in small settlements, providing better working conditions, more developed institutions, more recreational and recreational opportunities for those living there. I don't want you to miss my list of Veszprém. In the year of the families, the famous Veszprém zoo was expanded with a new interactive playground for the joy of family visitors. In the Veszprém High School College, the water blocks were renovated, and the institution received new furniture, and an exemplary investment was carried out, the entertainment kitchen called. In the Bárczi Gusztáv Primary School, Vocational School, Skills Development School and Unified Methodological Institute, a new gymnasium was established. The inner corridors have been renovated, and new playthings have been installed on the school courtyard. In the downtown of Veszprém, the construction of double roundabouts will soon be completed, building the downtown, making transport faster and safer, both for pedestrians and motorists. The work of the bicycle roads connecting the railway station with the city centre and in the direction of the city of Szabadságpuszta is also on the right track, and the cyclists can take possession of it next year. The elements of the programme for modern cities will also soon move from the design phase to the implementation phase, when spectacular investments in sport, culture or infrastructure will start. Veszprém County's 1st constituency is developing day by day, and we trust that the growing opportunities will continue to help the inhabitants live in modern villages and modern cities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-29-345	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró also applied for an after-the-meet speech: Hungarians or legionnaires? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-29-346	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Gergely Gulyás announced that Tao support will cease in culture, but he also said that we do not see a systemic problem in sport, so they do not want to touch that regulation at all. I would like to illustrate the magnitude of the magnitude of the measure, and this is the 2017 balance sheet, which shows that 522 billion forints have flown into visual team sports clubs through this form of support, so we can all see that this is not a small sum of money. The fact that Gergely Gulyás does not see any problems in this area, I would like to bring a rebuttal from the first man in a very well-known sports chain, who is also the largest domestic supporter of supply sports. It therefore follows from him:. The corporate tax discount system is a very good initiative, especially if the aid is used in Hungary for what it is needed to do. For example, they ask for money to improve supplies, and then, in many places, in the adult team, the wages of foreign legions are covered by it by adding them to the system as replacements. Gergely Gulyás has never heard of this? In Hungary, most of the money received through the lake is lost, and most of the support is not always going in the same direction by accident, so it is no wonder that the performance of more sports has fallen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But we have heard from the same gentleman about certain intermediaries who would have brought different contracting partners for 15-20 percent to benefit from this form of support. But I would also like to give concrete examples of how foreign legionists flooded these visual team sports in Hungary. Let's start with the handball. There is no way I would like to be a Siófok girl who wants to play handball right now, because no Hungarian player in this town is included in Siófok, and even their coach is foreign. By the way, at one of the games of Kisvárda, there was a moment where there was only one Hungarian on the field, Orbán, whose parents chose the first name Adrienn, so it was not the Prime Minister's daughter. [[21.20]] But it's no better than men. In the case of Szeged and Veszprém, there are only three Hungarians in the frame of the two top teams, but in the case of Komló, there were no Hungarians in the first round in the last round of the men's handball tournament. By the way, the Danes have a tenth of the number of foreigners playing for the entire championship as we have, and have been more successful in recent years. Turning to football, which is the Prime Minister's favourite sport, Kisvárda is also the leader in the employment of foreign legionists, in a dead race with the Újpest team, where only three Hungarians are usually in the beginning. I have to highlight the recent Paks-Debrecen match as a positive example and as a refreshment, where both teams had only Hungarian players. Looking at the volleyball, the subtitle of the report of the women's volleyball round at the beginning of this month was that the flood of legionnaires in the National Sports. Here too, while there can be six players at the same time on the field, there are club teams that employ seven foreign legions. Perhaps the most striking example is the Men's Basketball Championship, where there is not a single group in the 14-team NB I where the Hungarians' percentage would reach 50 percent in the beginning, and everyone in the Körmend team was foreign in the last round. So I think these concrete examples are very graphically evidence that the Tao money is the result of what Gábor Pósfai also said, that we often provide foreign legions of money that should or should be used to raise supplies. So yes, there are systemic problems, and the government and Gergely Gulyás should see this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-29-347	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK, also applied for a post-meeting speech. That's how the government helped the foreign exchange lenders with the title. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-29-348	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, you're still here late at night. I received a letter from a voter who took out a foreign exchange loan about ten years ago to buy an apartment for his child working in Budapest and wishing to study there. The letter is addressed to the Prime Minister, in his genre it is actually an open letter, but his author sent it to me, asking me to present its contents to the public, because he personally knows the Prime Minister, who thinks he would retaliate on this basis. In this case, as a drop, the sea is reflected in how the government helps the wealthy and how it tricks the most vulnerable. So the letter writer wanted to borrow money to buy a house. Even though it was a well-known letter from Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány to the government portal ten years ago, in which he warned about the risk of foreign exchange loans, the banks did not want to provide forint loans, but they were specifically persuaded of the foreign currency loan, and the conditions were indeed more favourable at the time. According to the client, the bank did not behave fairly with them, the expected risks were minimized, the so-called fine print part of the contract was not left to study. That is not what I wish to say, however, but they have turned to court in this case, and hopefully this will be for their benefit if they are right. In any case, the family is divided and multiplied, and it has been calculated that even if, due to unforeseen exchange rate fluctuations, the favourable instalment increases by one and a half times, the family can also manage from three salaries. So they went for it. However, the change of government followed, and with it Mr Szijjártó, Mr Kósa and Mr Varga declared that the Hungarian economy was in a worse position than the Greek economy. There was a crisis in Greece at the time. Of course, the forint started to fall, in March 2010, a Swiss franc reached 182 HUF, by September the exchange rate jumped to 225 HUF, by the middle of the following year to 261 HUF, and the CDS premium also increased sharply. And the installment didn't go one-and-a-half, but two-and-a-half times. Act two is the end of the payoff. The Act, which entered into force in September 2011, allowed those in debt to repay their debt in the next five months at a rate of HUF 180 instead of that of Swiss francs moving between HUF 235-264. This was good for all those who had more mobilisation, but the author of the complainant's letter was not one of them. In principle, it would also have been possible for a person to make the final repayment from a HUF loan for this purpose, but during these five months, the banks have already lost over 260 billion, and in an understandable way they were reluctant to lend to increase their losses. The government, as we have been used to since then, once again favored the wealthy with generous gifts, this time giving the banks the opportunity to make a profit. After all, the third act: there was a civil servant in the family of the letter-writer complainant, to whom the government also promised interest subsidies for the loan received for the final repayment, but since they did not receive any credit because of the above, they did not make much use of that promise. After all, two earners remained because they had to admit that they were currency-credited, and this caused mistrust in their job as civil servants and was dismissed. There's two of them left. They are not in debt today, unfortunately the situation is that they currently have two and a half times their debt compared to what they took on ten years ago. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-29-349	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I bid you a restful good night, and the sitting day is closed.
