u2018-11-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 22nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and to anyone who monitors our work. We will start a series of comments before the agenda. First, I would like to address Mr Bertalan Tóth, head of the group of the MSZP, who will address his contribution with the title "The People working for the Workers." Here you go.
u2018-11-26-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You have the repressive power of my fellow Members, a kind of impression, I might say, summary, essence: this is the scene, the picture of a woman sobbing of pain and shame being taken from their own apartment by the police. I'm sure you've got the same picture. More than 1300 of these scenes took place in Hungary this year. Shame and shame, your shame and the reproach of your repressive power. I wish you that this image would burn into your retina and reach your conscience, if you could talk about it at all. You lied to the evicted, and you lied to those who carry out evictions. They lied to the mother and the 1300 families when they declared that they had solved the foreign exchange credential problem. But they also lied to those police officers who had to do this shameful job at your command, because it turns out that my colleague Tamás Harangozó has found out that the Hungarian police have completed 700 thousand overtime hours and you refuse to pay them. No wonder thousands of Hungarian policemen leave their jobs. This inhuman and insensitive exercise of power, this House, whose sole purpose is to increase the privileges of the Urizing Fidesz elite, to the detriment of the majority who want to cope with his work. The essence of this exercise of power is well described by the news of the last few days, when it turned out that the world's richest gas mechanic, Lőrinc Mészáros, already has a fortune of 300 billion, while midwives in the maternity ward at Semmelweis University are washing the diapers of newborns. We also learned that the Prime Minister's son-in-law bought nearly a thousand square meters of apartments in the more expensive district of Budapest, while the emergency care in Orosháza was inexorably due to inhumane working conditions and shamefully low salaries. Aren't you ashamed? Aren't their faces on fire? This is Hungary today: the privileged, urizing elite faces millions of vulnerable people. This exercise of power is also demonstrated by our misdemeanor, which has now been brought before the House, according to which employers can order up to 400 hours of overtime instead of 250. Moreover, they would further damage workers' rights and opportunities by evacuating collective agreements. At today's committee meeting, one of your representatives admitted that the multinational companies asked you to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1857 in Melbourne, on 1 May 1886 in Chicago, in 1890 in Paris, and then hundreds of thousands of workers in Budapest demanded the introduction of 8 hours of working time. The introduction of the eight-hour hours! Now, the XXI. At the beginning of the 20th century, in Hungary, in the face of millions of workers, they want to introduce a modern-day slave law. It is a slave law, this House, which has not been asked again, because if it had been asked, it would probably have been said that they would not need more from overtime, but rather from wages and wages. And you talk about family and the year of families, when you're going to take fathers and mothers away from children, from families. That's why you're leaving Hungary, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal is not a solution to labour shortages, but it further increases the vulnerability of Hungarian workers. More than HUF 80 billion has been given to multi-company companies, while Hungarians working in multinationals have been exposed and deprived of their rights and opportunities. We, together with the unions, are in favour of vulnerable workers instead of privileged elites. We consider it a national disaster that your policy will drive hundreds of thousands of young and skilled Hungarian workers out of this country. The vote on the Fidesz Slave Act is a vote on humanity and fairness. Turns out you're either on the side of the urizing Fidesz elite or on the side of millions of workers, or you're betraying them. We believe in the code of work, honourable Members, which is written by the hand of the workers and not by the capitalists. That is why we will work for our future together, for a just Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would, however, like to give the Member a realistic assessment of the situation here in the public domain of this House. It is important to know that more than 4.4 million people work in Hungary today, and this is well above the 3.9 million who did their job before the 2010s. This is a significant economic potential increase which must in no way go without a word. The unemployment rate is 3.8 per cent, and this is clearly due to measures that could have been created either in the context of sectoral career models, wage agreements or tax incentives. It must be seen that the economy is on a rising track, and it can also be seen that there are more and more job vacancies today, i.e. the conditions on the Hungarian labour market have changed. This change certainly has a message that we must respond to. We need to react, because if we act as if nothing had happened, we will have competitors passing us, economic operators will be weakened and there will be more trouble. It is important to stress that the draft amendment to the Labour Code does not aim to increase the amount of work, but to extend the period within which the employer can allocate working time. The rule to be introduced, extending the current 12-month option, allows for a longer working time period for the hours used and unused to be set over a period of 3 years. In order to avoid disproportionate burdens or disadvantages in the context of the establishment of a longer working time framework, the proposed labour law instrument does not, in itself, become possible by the rule of the law, but can only be applied if such a working order is agreed between employees and employers' representatives. [[13.10]] Such an agreement is therefore concluded in a collective agreement. Trade unions can thus directly enforce their needs and expectations regarding the organisation of working time, taking into account the local labour market environment and the needs of workers in the workplace. We believe that this need for an agreement provides an adequate guarantee that the employer cannot unilaterally develop working conditions, so that workers themselves can be interested in the economic operation of the enterprise. The main element of the bill is to make employment more flexible by regulating working time, so that, if laid down in the collective agreement, I stress that the working time limit can be set for a maximum period of 36 months instead of the current 12 months. The basis of the working time limit remains the 40 hours per week, keeping the current rule. The average weekly working time in this system should therefore not exceed 48 hours. If the employer does not order all hours of work, the unused time may be allocated to a later date within the working time frame. On the basis of the bill, the employee is constantly paid, on the basis of the general working schedule, for the entire period laid down in the collective agreement, the salary specified in the contract of employment when he does not complete all his working hours and when his employer orders him more than the specified hours of work. Of course, the law does not change the fact that the extra wage for the employee for extra working hours other than the post will be paid in the month in question, together with other allowances such as shift allowances and night allowances. For the second part of your question or question: it must be seen that 416 overtime hours can be ordered under the EU Directive, and in this case the domestic provision remains under this Directive. Not one country in Western Europe, for example, Austria and Germany do not define a specific guide in this respect, or apply the 600-hour time frame, which, I think, is well beyond the Hungarian proposal. In this context, workers can legally earn more at their own workplaces, so this is an important thing, they are guaranteed to receive their money at work, economic positions are strengthened both for the employer and for the employee, i.e. these ideas, these proposals support the ability of the Hungarian labour market to respond more flexibly in line with the challenges. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-4	On behalf of DK, Ágnes Vadai said: " They did not say that the crisis caused by mass immigration was over! " with the title " You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-5	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has also brought unexpected events that you have escaped, smuggled to Hungary, and then recognized as a fugitive a common criminal who escaped from prison. When the country-world asked you why a convicted fugitive, Nikola Gruevski, could come to Hungary as an illegal immigrant, and why he didn't end up in the transit zone, you said that it was because he had received special treatment. There are more problems with that. One is that, according to the law, special treatment can only be applied in the following cases: if the person applying for asylum is an unaccompanied minor, a disabled person, a pregnant woman or has been tortured before. None of them fit your VIP migrating, although some sources say you crossed the border in women's clothing, that doesn't make you a pregnant woman, of course. Nor is it too likely that the corrupt fugitive Prime Minister would have experienced the leather seat of the armored Mercedes of 200 million forints as torture. So you've obviously acted illegally when a convicted criminal has been eloped and planted in the country on this basis as an illegal immigrant. But not only for the above reasons, they cannot rely on special treatment. The passage referred to was taken out of the law by you when the crisis caused by mass immigration was announced. Since the crisis caused by mass immigration was introduced in Hungary, this section has disappeared from the law, there is no special treatment not only for criminals but also for real refugees, pregnant women and children orphaned in war. From the fact that you are referring to this, we can only conclude that you believe that there is no longer a crisis caused by mass immigration. We have also lived this, the Orbán government is once in life in harmony with reality and believes that the crisis caused by mass immigration is over. It's an unexpected consequence. After that, only those of your voters will believe that there will be a flood of migrants who have lost their senses in the deepest brainwashing of Fidesz propaganda media, no one else. And if there is no crisis caused by mass immigration, there is no luxury spending without public procurement. A few weeks ago, they bought extremely expensive cars on the basis of this, and from now on, it's over, and now they're taking the risk of spending the money of the Hungarians in Europe without public procurement, as they have done in the last three years. You can choose to go to jail for smuggling people or corruption. One is certainly committed by smuggling public fugitives at the same time on grounds of special treatment and spending our money without public procurement, justifying the crisis that made the former impossible. I can't do both. You have made these laws, fellow Members, at least you would know them! Forgive me, but as a European Hungarian, I like to speak openly and honestly. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Let's just say some of you, not many of you, will end your political career in handcuffs and leadership. When the Hungarians drive this government away, which even lied to them about the one thing they stole and did not govern over the last few years, they will lose everything, even their personal freedom. With the power, the D.A.'s office will be devastated, and the D.A.'s office will be outlawed. Then they'll share a few square meters of prison cell with the current Attorney General. No one will even know the conditions under which they will be in prison, for they have banned civil society organisations from prisons who would check this out. We Hungarians in Europe are looking forward to it, even in the case of the Secretary of State, being on the right side of the grid. [[13.20]] Or, of course, there's another way for you to go to Master Putin to seek asylum, as you did with your colleague in Macedonia. We Hungarians in Europe will not allow you to escape from the country when you have to take responsibility for your actions. After the robbery of the Hungarians, we will not allow you Moscow billionaires to live their lives hiding behind asylum. Don't think you'll have the temporary luck Gruevski had. We Hungarians in Europe will make sure that they have neither permanent nor temporary luck. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Noise on the opposition side.]]
u2018-11-26-6	I'll give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra, if you think it's necessary. [[Defiance.]] To say something about what we might have heard. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Your friendship is endless, Mr. President.]]
u2018-11-26-7	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think I am not exaggerating when I say that the Hungarian people are the real lucky ones because they were freed from you in 2010. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would also like to say here to the public of this House that all members of the Government of Hungary and all members of the Fidesz-KDNP faction association act in the interests of Hungary, in compliance with Hungarian law. And the threat you've allowed yourself to make before the agenda is a cynical, completely unfounded, outrageous threat. If you take the work of your representatives seriously, you would know that the current government regulation is still in force to prolong the crisis caused by mass immigration. For the sake of Hungary's security and border protection, the government extended the crisis caused by mass immigration to the entire territory of Hungary until 6 March 2019. On 11 September 2018, I was able to inform the Defence and Police Committee on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, where the police and representatives of the Alien Police Authority were present. In the report, we discussed in detail the reasons for the extension and its justification. You know that, Congresswoman, because you attended the committee meeting, you were present at the committee meeting. As regards the matter of asylum, which you mentioned in your comments before the agenda: I would also like to state here that the Hungarian authorities cannot provide information on any asylum procedure to the public in order to comply with the provisions of the asylum law. [[Gergely Arató: The Hungarian Times could have given! Doesn't the law apply to him?]] Or any other authority. In all cases, the Immigration and Asylum Office shall examine whether the application is legally justified and shall always conduct its decisions in compliance with the law. Hungary gives everyone the right to a fair trial. I would also like to add, Madam Member, that the Parliament's National Security Committee held on 20 November 2018 at its off-site committee meeting, held at the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Director-General of the Immigration and Asylum Office has provided credible information on the request referred to in its statement before the agenda, which is appropriate to the situation in question. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mass migration, the migration threat, remains, and the Balkan route is still active. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Nearly 70,000 migrants are waiting on the Balkan route to Europe. Hungary has therefore strengthened the protection of the southern border. In order to protect the Croatian border, the Minister of the Interior has taken measures to ensure that this section of the border is also safe. Hungary has offered its assistance to Croatia and all the countries affected by the Balkan migration route. I would also like to draw attention to the justification for the crisis caused by mass migration, namely that in recent days the Greek authorities have brought 14 thousand migrants to land, who may at any time be on their way to a land-based Europe. We also know that the impact of migrant cards is still unpredictable today. We cannot conclude yet, but we cannot yet say how much this increases the role of smugglers by quoting the number of migrants that are leaving for Europe, and what effect this will have. On the other hand, I would like to say one thing, and I would like to reassure everyone, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to protect the safety of Hungarian people, to protect Hungary, to ensure that Hungarian border protection is guaranteed. The necessary resources are provided by the government in both the current and the 2019 budgets, and the necessary triple protection, fence, lively protection and legal protection are provided. We can guarantee that Hungary was, has and will be one of the safest countries in Europe and the world, just as it was before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-8	We will now be informed by the leader of the Dialogue Group, Szabó Timea. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk again about current matters, namely the recognition of former Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski as a refugee in Hungary. But now I am not interested in how you came here, so it is not the details of the case, or why you were not placed in the transit zone, like all other asylum seekers, or why Hungarian diplomats helped you escape the border, or how you got refugee status a few hours after the Director of the Immigration Office himself said it would be a long asylum procedure. That's not what I'm interested in right now, because you guys are lying about it, and right now, with your current line change, one of your B-grade verbal thugs is gonna give you the right answers to that. I would rather talk about what recognition of Gruevski as a refugee means to Hungary, what Viktor Orbán did to Hungarian people. In the last four years, Mr.Orbán has preached nothing but the safety of the country, building on the most despicable hatred, and I quote that we can decide who we want to live with. On the other hand, it was not us Hungarians who decided on Gruevski, my fellow Members, but Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán wants to live with a criminal, a criminal sentenced to two years in prison for stealing, not to mention a 570 billion EUR for fraud in public procurement. But by the way, he was also responsible for the wiretap of tens of thousands of people. Gruevski is not the first immigrant criminal to be embraced by Viktor Orbán and threatened with the safety of our country. Let us look at some of the people that Viktor Orbán also wanted to live with and want to live with now. Ghaith Rashad Pharaon, a Saudi businessman who bought the old Post Office from the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz. Pharaon was wanted 25 years ago by Interpol, suspected of money laundering, corruption in America. Orbán said that Pharaon does not pose a national security risk to Hungary. Zaid Naffa, Jordan's honorary consul. The terrorist, Pharaon's good friend, who failed in the Hungarian terrorist light, was photographed even with István Tiborcz during coffee. Then Atiya Khoury, who's on the United States sanction list. According to the Americans, he's one of Bassar el-Asad's most important men, a good friend of Syrian dictator. Antal Rogán received Hungarian papers thanks to his residency bond program. Finally, Ramil Safarov is an ax murderer from Azerbaijan who killed his sleeping Armenian fellow soldier. Viktor Orbán gave it to Azerbaijan so that it was clear that he would be released immediately in his country. Meanwhile, before those who really need protection need help, Viktor Orbán and his government close their doors. For example, he did so in front of the Afghan woman who fled her home with her underage brother. Her parents were murdered by her uncle in front of her, and then sold her as a sex slave to an elderly man. He ran away, but on the way, he was raped several times by smugglers. He entered Hungary after two years, but in the meantime he was raped several times in Serbia. After that, the Hungarian state rejected its asylum application and did not even receive food in the transit zone. Think for a moment, fellow Members, that if this happens to your daughter or to one of your sisters, how would they stand on this whole thing? But the Russian entrepreneur Torubarov was not protected by us, who Putin's men tried to kill him several times for confronting the Russian dictator as opposition politician. The businessman first sought refuge in Austria, where Putin's men stabbed him in the throat in prison. In 2013, he came to Hungary through the green border from Ukraine, asking for asylum, but his application was rejected by the Hungarian State, because Putin ordered you to do so. Orbán said that a few days ago in a radio interview about Gruevski, the man treats his allies with decency. [[13.30]] Indeed, Viktor Orbán is allies with criminals, corrupt murderers, terrorists, criminals and ax murderers. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You and the MSZP.]] They are the ones above the law, who can always receive special treatment from Viktor Orbán; they are not millions of Hungarians who are breaking up every day because of you in the work, who are now taking away the cafeteria, whose overtime is being raised to 400 hours, whose annual freedom is now being reduced by five days. Not teachers teaching our children or social workers taking care of our parents receive special treatment, but these terrorists, these criminals, these Azerbaijani axe murderers. These are the government's favorite criminals. Viktor Orbán betrayed... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] Time hasn't passed, Mr. President, so I'd like your time back. And for that, you will be severely paid, as will the Prime Minister... [[The president is turning off the speaker's mic again.]]
u2018-11-26-10	I didn't stop it in front of him. I stopped it long after his five minutes passed, Congresswoman. I think we're mutual, and I'm even fairer to you than you are to us. [[Szabó Timea: I don't think so.]] Mr. Secretary of State Kontrat is next.
u2018-11-26-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on 8 April 2018 the Hungarian people gave an opinion on the Government of Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, about the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, about you, and thanks to this statement, we can respond to your unsubstantiated and shameful comments before the agenda. As earlier Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, you have threatened and threatened the government in a ignoble way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think I should tell you here, too, that the Government of Hungary, the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, has always acted in the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary, and has complied with all laws, Hungarian and international laws and will comply with them in the future. I am very sorry that you cannot take into account the fact that, even to this day, you have lost on 8 April and are so present in Parliament. They are trying to exaggerate this presence with such a shameful, unfounded, incriminating, shameful comment, which I now reject. As regards your question in detail: the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, as I said to Mrs Valai, at its closed meeting on 20 November 2018, the Director-General of the Immigration and Asylum Office provided credible legal information on the asylum application referred to in its statement before the agenda, which was all relevant to the situation. The next day, on 21 November, Dr. Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, also appeared before the committee. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] The Ministry of Interior categorically rejects any political attack against government officials carrying out their work in accordance with their oath of office. Because you, honourable Member, are attacking not only the government, the Members, the Prime Minister, but also the acting officials, completely unfounded. I would like to say that the Hungarian Office for Immigration and Asylum has been recognised as a professionally high-quality office for asylum authorities in the European Union. This is also recognised by the European Union's co-governments. The Hungarian authorities cannot provide detailed information on any asylum procedure in order to comply with the provisions of the Asylum Act. When it comes to asylum, Hungary gives everyone the right to a fair trial, it is the responsibility of the authorities to conduct asylum procedures, and this policy has no say in this. I would also like to state here that there was no political say in this matter either. The procedures conducted by the Immigration and Asylum Office shall comply in all respects with international law. I have said that the EU's co-governments are also commending the work of the Hungarian Office for Immigration and Asylum. The Immigration and Asylum Office conducts the asylum procedure in accordance with Hungarian law and in accordance with international law. They have done so, and they will do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-12	Now it's time for Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, member of the Jobbik faction, where do we belong? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Staying on the subject, but putting it in a whole different context, I am pleased to have Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, who, in the context of a very important commemoration yesterday, found that only an anti-communist could be a real Democrat. On the basis of this sentence, I think that we should look at those sequences of events, not separately, but as a logical chain, where this country is going, where you are steering it, and what federal systems all of this has happened in the past. In the last five days, there have been several scandals that have not occurred in recent days, but in recent years, but in the period from 2014 onwards. First, we received news that in 2014 the Syrian dictator Bassár el-Assad's moneyman was managed to get him to a shelter through a Russian settlement bond office and to a settlement policy, by the way, he managed to pass the Hungarian National Security Review in four days. Chronologically, the incident occurred in 2016, two Russian arms dealers were exposed with American help and captured by the Counter-Terrorism Center. But contrary to the U.S. request within the NATO federal system, Hungary did not provide the US with the two Russian criminal arms dealers, but with Russia. Then here is the case of Gruevski, who is now under an international arrest warrant, and Macedonia also requests his extradition in accordance with customary law and the treaty between the two countries. Not only does Hungary fail to do so, but in strange circumstances, but it does give shelter to a wanted criminal, my fellow Members. You can refer to all kinds of special treatment here, so let's be honest, he's been convicted of a public-law crime in his own country. With this in mind, Hungary has, of course, given the political order itself, and we can only guess where the political order came from. But with regard to the confusion in the system, Mr Secretary of State has already agreed to the details of last week's National Security Committee meeting, referring to some of my opposition fellow Members. [[Károly Kontra: I didn't agree to it.]] I would add so much to this, Mr Secretary of State, that I understand that the asylum authority cannot disclose personal data about anyone. However, I continue to wonder how one of your filth portals, the Hungarian Times, could report in detail the smallest information about Gruevsk's asylum application to the public. The fact that the National Security Committee has not yet started is not enough, the Hungarian Times have already made the decision as a complete fact, which was supposed to have been born hours later. But let's keep going. Sándor Pintér, as you said, the Minister of Interior did indeed appear at the meeting of the extraordinary National Security Committee convened the next day, but he could not give any information, because for the first time in the last ten years the Fidesz majority did not vote on the agenda, so Minister could not report on the merits. So let's not consider this closed in this sense. But the real question is, where do we belong? I wonder who you haven't declared war with yet. I could mention NASA here because we haven't been able to declare war there yet, but the UN, the EU, NATO, can be the most enlightened about these matters, that we are fighting with everyone, we are declaring war with everyone, and I am eager to see who else will fit into this line. And here I would return to the quote that the uncoroned king of the garment with Péter Mansfeld's T-shirt, as far as the number of parliamentary wear is concerned, Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvári... he said that he could only be a true Democrat who is an anti-communist. Then, along these lines, I ask you to ask yourself, where do you belong, whether within or outside the federal system? Ask yourself whether it is the true Democrat who is an anti-communist in his communication, or whether he is the real Democrat, who doesn't appear to be acting like a communist. Because, unfortunately, you're using those exact methods, and you're acting exactly like a communist. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-11-26-14	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We look forward to a speech from you, with great hope, which differs at least in its tone from that of any left-wing party. But we had to be disappointed now, because there was nothing in this speech that was even a little like a national party's speech. What you have said in substance, DK has already said, and the Dialogue has also said so. So much for working with the Communists and their successors. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Not at all. Ádám Mirkóczki: Good morning to them and to us!]] [[13.40]] I would like to assure you that the Hungarian authorities are doing their job professionally, taking into account the security aspects. I'm sorry that you continue to insult them. With regard to the Gruevski case, I would like to repeat so much, because the Secretary of State has already told me in detail that, when it comes to asylum applications, Hungary gives everyone the right to a fair trial. That's what happened in this case. By the way, there is an interesting development in this case, and now Jobbik is going to Brussels to report it. [[Szabó Timea: You did the same thing!]] This is also what they have done in this case, with the reporter, Mr Gyöngyösi, who said that they will turn to the European Commission. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: For a resolution!]] In 2012, he said that the question was not what would happen to Hungary if it got out of the EU, but what tragic consequences it would have if the country stayed inside. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We ask for a resolution from the Commission, not a complaint!]] Now, after a major change of direction, Jobbik also goes to Brussels to report him. If I understand your speech correctly, you're asking the government where you want to belong. I would like to tell you that there is no change in this: we belong to Europe, we are interested in a strong Europe, with a strong, independent and sovereign Hungary. We have been pursuing an appropriate policy for years. But if anyone has an explanation about their affiliation, then that's your party, that's Jobbik. Because we were not the ones who burned an EU flag in front of the cameras; we would not have called the Iranian revolutionary guard election observers, but you are; we are not the MEPs accused of spying on a third country, but we did not say that Islam is humanity's last hope, and not our representative here in this House argued that we should assess the number of Jewish people in Parliament who pose a national security risk. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: You've done brilliant research!]] These statements and actions you're trying to deny right now, all that means is that if there's someone who doesn't know where he belongs and what kind of policy he wants to pursue, it's Jobbik. This is between you and your party, but I would like to ask you and your party not to project your own identity confusion on others. Where do we belong? There is also another approach to questioning. We are one of those who want to support and encourage Hungarians because we are a community, but I would like to point out that you are constantly insulting them. Take just how you rated the Hungarians in the last few weeks: you said in the camera that hundreds of thousands of people vote based on who gives them three forints more. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Unfortunately, yes.]] Those are your sentences. You didn't stop here, you said that a significant part of society doesn't bother to give an opinion A or B. And what does the president of Jobbik say about Hungarians at the convention? It means that the Hungarians have become servitude. On the side of your party, there's this in the account. So, all in all, all I can tell you is to refer you back to what one of your leaders said a few weeks ago, where you said your soul-recovering convention went pretty well. We don't know what the good guys mean by that, but I'd like to tell you that the soul isn't something you can give or buy like a vacuum cleaner. Once it's removed, it'll be hard to replace it with anything. We wish you every success in your work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-16	It is now up to Mrs Krisztina Hohn, on behalf of the LMP, on 25 November with the title of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As you know, 25 November is the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. That is why I have chosen this topic as an address before the agenda. In particular, in honor of this day and its report, I have invited my lady guests today, whom I welcome with respect. I consider it important to give a special welcome to Pálm Halász, curator of the Life Value Foundation, and one of the leading personalities in the fight against domestic violence for many years. In 2012, he collected nearly 150,000 signatures in the form of a popular initiative, so that Parliament could put the subject on the agenda. His efforts were crowned with success, and in 2013 the facts of inter-relationship violence were enshrined in law. In front of the United Nations, 700 people in Geneva applauded him for all he had accomplished. On behalf of the women, I would like to thank him. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, even today, one in five women is regularly abused by their partner or has ever been in a relationship with him. Did you know that a woman is eight times more likely to die by the hand of her partner than by a stranger's hand? You know people who hear that kind of abuse, you're starting to find out what's wrong with the victim, aren't you? You're all gonna say there's not enough reason to be abused, right? I would like to draw your attention not only to violence against women, but also to domestic violence, as it can be a victim of domestic violence, a child, a parent, a disabled person, and no matter how strange, even a man. I have brought you a poem or a story, which, I think, is not enough to listen to, this story must be thoroughly felt and even shuddered; but it must be thought that this may take place at this very moment. Today I got flowers. It wasn't my birthday or any special day. We had our first fight at night. He said a lot of mean things that hurt me a lot. I know you regret it, and you don't think things the way you said... Because he sent me flowers today. I got flowers today. We didn't have an anniversary or any special day. That day, he pushed me against the wall and started strangling me. It was like a nightmare. I couldn't believe this was really happening. I woke up this morning with all my pains and bruises everywhere. I know you're sorry... Because he sent me flowers today. Today I got flowers, there was no Mother's Day, or there was no special day. The night beat me again. That day was much worse than any other time. If I leave him, what will I do? What about the kids? What are we gonna do for a living? I'm afraid of him, but I'm afraid to leave. But I know you're sorry... Because he sent me flowers today. I got flowers today. Today was a special day. It's my funeral day. He finally killed me yesterday. He beat me to death. If only I had the courage to leave, I wouldn't have had flowers today. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think I have no choice but to ask you to support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. You feel that, don't you? Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-18	I give the floor to Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to point out, first of all, that the Hungarian Government strongly rejects any form of violence against women, but is committed to the complete elimination of abuse and the protection of victims. In recent years, we have taken a series of measures for security. We help women with strict criminal policy, multiple crisis centers, shelters, legal and spiritual programs. The Criminal Code Act has brought a number of restrictions. The law severely punishes abuse, much stricter than under socialist governments. As regards the sanctioning of women's crimes, the Btk. punishes sexual coercion in a self-reliance, which provides for early criminal protection compared to sexual violence, as it punishes sexual acts, called sexual extortion, which are not defined by sexual violence or by a qualified threat, but by simply threatening it. The recent state of sexual violence has been tightened, and in most cases prison sentences of up to 5-20 years can be imposed. A new crime has been brought to the Btk., the relationship violence, which my fellow Member has also spoken about, which, in addition to the certification of a serious violation of human dignity, humiliating and violent behaviour, also punishes economic inability. In this case, the victim of the offence is the other parent of the common child who is not a condition for the establishment of the offence in the former common household or living in an apartment, or who was the perpetrator at the time of the offence or in a common household or a family member, former spouse, ex-partner, caretaker, guardian, guardian, guardian or guardian. It should also be noted that, when establishing a new Code of Criminal Procedure, the enforcement of the rights of victims and of persons in a vulnerable group in general received increased attention by emphasising the possibility of individualisation, taking into account the specific needs of persons involved in criminal proceedings. [[13.50]] The new law thus established a system of institutions for persons requiring special treatment. The basis for this is that, where the court, the prosecutor's office or the investigating authority perceives that specific specific needs arise for the person involved in criminal proceedings, it first decides that the person concerned is a person requiring special treatment and then opens the instrument system which is capable of dealing with the individual needs of the person concerned in the most appropriate manner. It should be pointed out that the Hungarian Government focuses primarily on prevention, for which it has taken a number of measures in recent years. In addition to expanding and developing a system of care for victims of contact violence, special attention will be paid to preventing victimisation, training of various professionals in contact with victims, research, social awareness-raising, the implementation of campaigns that say that relationship violence is unacceptable. We consider it a priority to help victims. Therefore, the establishment of a secret safe house was established in 2012 in addition to the expansion of crisis management centres. Thanks to a new development resource, crisis clinics can open up in the future, where people in need can ask for help. In 2017, the Ministry of Justice started to set up its own victim support centers. The first victim support centre started operating in Budapest in June 2017, and in March 2018 two additional centres were established in Miskolc and Szombathely. The services of the centres are available free of charge to everyone, regardless of their need. The staff of the victim support centers provide information, emotional assistance, and spiritual support for those who come to them with the assistance of a psychologist. In addition, the primary task of the victim support line operating in the Ministry of Justice, free of charge day and night, is to ensure the continuous availability of the victim support service, and to enable victims to receive information and advice appropriate to their individual situation at any time on the green number. The 24-hour availability of the victim support line enables those in need to receive substantial assistance and guidance without delay. The prepared staff of the victim support line will provide personalised information on the possible forms of assistance, whether within the victim support system or in the social, child protection and health care system, after assessing the caller's problems and individual needs. Trained dispatchers also provide emotional support to those in distress, in addition to practical assistance. As regards the Istanbul Convention, I would like to point out that only 33 of the 47 Member States of Europe have ratified the Convention so far. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's not exactly what women's protection depends on. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-20	The leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach, has applied for a pre-meeting statement:.The place for raising family life in the NAT. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-11-26-21	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The speech before the previous agenda is partly in touch with what I would like to say. The key word for this is responsible relationship. What you said in Mr Secretary of State's reply is a legal and service response, but I would like to say a worldview sentence. For us, the dignity of women and men is the same, and this dignity cannot be violated by anything, that is, against all violence, especially against violence against children and women. But what I want to tell you is connected to a story. We all know it, it's recently come to light, it's the children of a German school educated, among whom a German native speaker was involved. This is obviously a reference to migration, but I would like to carry on an indirect message, and this is a family picture of two cultures. The Oriental man lives in a family and thinks in a family, supporting him and enjoying the joy of having and raising children. In Western culture, however, the value of the family has slipped in the last decades, and Western man tends to live his life outside the family. One of the results is that the population situation continues to deteriorate, and the other is that individual performance, the development of children's personality, and individual happiness are impaired. What can we do? We've done a survey, and I'd like to give you some details, and that might be the answer to the solution. In a representative survey, we asked the most populous age group, the 40s below it, over it, 1.6 million people, why the expected child sacrifice was missed. Two data are desirable: 40 percent are childless, at the age when they have only one or two years left to have children, and 32 percent live without a relationship. It's kind of hard to have a baby. What can you do? Obviously, the relationship issue cannot be discussed, as this is a matter of private concern, but if we look at why family lives are on the rocks, then the same answer comes in many cases, this is due to the problem within a relationship. So when we are looking for ways to improve the population situation and improve the situation of families, we should always be talking about responsible relationships. What does a responsible relationship mean? It is obvious that it means the other's appreciation, respect, consideration of his interests and long-term commitment. Here it may be possible to encourage young people to have some courage that commitment is good for them and good for everyone, but it is good for children in particular, because having a child has a father and a mother will certainly help them develop. Of course, it is also true that having children and raising children is a victim, and this must be done. Raising a family life in this sense can be beneficial for children and young people, as family formation begins with this long-term commitment, children need to hear about responsible relationships, and then, obviously, the situation of families will be different. The question is, of course, if you don't see a pattern at home, then how can you make it a way of life? Clearly, it is worth something to have a responsible relationship education in school. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And this is what I wish not only for the nation to survive, but for the families to be happy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-22	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Faction Leader, Dear House, Indeed, if there are working families in Hungary, then the country can also function well. You quoted a survey, so allow me to quote a recent survey of a few weeks, which was carried out by the background institution of the Kopp Mária Institute for Population and Families, the government's background on family policy. In this they asked what aspects of having children are important, what is more important, what is less important. About 50 percent of respondents mentioned that an adequate and secure financial background is necessary for childbearing, for starting a family, but in a much higher proportion, 70 percent of respondents said that the right mental and emotional background is more important, and 100 percent indicated that physical, mental and spiritual maturity is essential for childbearing. So when we deal with issues related to childbearing, we need to see that financial conditions are important, of course, too, so in recent years the government has taken outstanding steps, since family support is increasing from less than HUF 1000 billion between 2010 and 2019 to more than HUF 2000 billion, so we spend twice as much on families as our predecessors spent in 2010. And if you look at it in relation to the total national product, you will find 4.5 percent there; even now it is higher than 4.5 percent of the budget expenditure on families, families raising children, while the average of the most developed countries is around 2.5 percent, so it is also about half of today's Hungarian value. [[14.00]] But apart from material possessions, financial security, respondents considered it very important to have this emotional security, spiritual security, which could, on the one hand, mean the family-friendly thinking of the country, the family-friendly actions of the government, but, as you said, honourable Member, it can also mean that education in school should be an important part of family life for the 12 years that children go to school. Not only do we call our education law a public education law, but we call it a public education law, because not only does it transfer knowledge, not only does the school transfer lexical knowledge, it also sets patterns, it also gives an example, it also gives an example of values, so it is important that education is an important part of family life education. The family has been a natural community for thousands of years. We see that from the Balliberal side, they are trying to challenge and change the natural nature of that legal definition, but regardless, since humanity was humanity, the family has always meant the same thing to everyone. At the same time, today's task is far greater than the coordination of family and career. For example, education for family life can give good examples and good patterns; I think it is worth discussing with a teenage youth today, and it is worth considering. In the National Basic Science Plan, you can appear in different ways in different fields of culture in the development of family life, the moral sense of the child, in the development of self-consciousness, or in the development of physical and mental health. Today, many things are changing around us in the world, but the basic values must remain the same, so presenting a harmonious family life may be important that it is an attainable goal for everyone, if not the most important goal in his life. Conversation with the establishment of responsible relationships, I think, may be important in schools; preparation for family roles, peaceful handling of potential conflicts in family life, all of these issues that have a place in the National Basics, have a place in schools, because although they are clearly shared by everyone in the family, they are recognized there, but more and more people from the family are moving to school, which is why it is important to process these issues there as well. You all know that there is a very wide consultation of the National Basic Training Plan, first we are in a professional and now a fully plenary consultation period open to all. There are thousands of pages on the package of proposals that came to the National Basics Plan, and there are also tens of thousands of people who signed it, asking for the education of family life to be part of the new National Basics Plan. I have to say that there are obviously open gates to the petitioners who are making this statement, which is also our goal, since we want to make Hungary a family-friendly country. We hope that in everyone's learning and training process, family-friendly approaches will be achieved not only from literature, home and public knowledge, not only from ethics and ethics or not only from financial and management knowledge in relation to the family register, but also in almost all areas of the new National Basic Science Plan and Education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-24	As the final speaker before the agenda, Mr Richárd Hörcsik will rise to speak with the title of "The Painful Farewell of Brexit." Here you go.
u2018-11-26-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The European Union has reached a milestone because yesterday a document containing the termination of British EU membership, the exit agreement, was signed. Yesterday was a sad Sunday, as the United Kingdom's detachment lost one of the strongest Member States in the European Union, which, unfortunately, will weaken the European Union's position on world politics in the future. In the Brexit campaign, Hungary has always taken the position of the British to stay in the EU, but British citizens have decided differently and voted in favour of separation. This decision was a sovereign decision by the people of the United Kingdom, the English, the Scots, the Irish and the Welsh, which must be respected, but this decision has put both parties, both the Union and the United Kingdom, in a very difficult situation. As we have seen, over the past few years, very hard negotiations preceded yesterday and there was an agreement on vital issues, such as the situation of EU citizens in the United Kingdom or the financial settlement between the parties. By signing yesterday's documents, i.e. the exit agreement and the political declaration on future relations, the negotiations were finally concluded. I believe, fellow Members, that, after such a historic moment, it is worth asking a question that, unfortunately, the Union in Brussels, the Commission did not ask itself what reasons led to the British being separated. One of the reasons why British citizens voted for the Brexit is long before 2014 when Jean-Claude Juncker was elected head of the European Commission. Only two Member States voted against during the vote: the United Kingdom and Hungary. But I believe that, while respecting the rules of democracy, we may still ask how wise it was to ignore the position of one of the largest states. After Sunday, it's a bit of a comfort to us that President Juncker's days are numbered. I would also like to point out that immigration or the protection of its borders have always been an important priority for the British. Nor did British citizens receive a reassuring answer to these questions from Brussels. As the Prime Minister succinctly said, the European Union has allowed migrants in, and the European British have not been able to keep it in, I would add that they did not want it very much. Mr President, One eye cries, the other name perhaps with this folk wisdom could best summarize the fact of the Brexit. It is very sad because we have lost the Member State that gave one seventh of the European Union's GDP. In both economic and political and military terms, the European Union will indeed weaken in the future. And sad because we have lost our most important ally in the Union in the fight that we are fighting with the Visegrád Four to strengthen the positions of nation states, if you will, for subsidiarity. Of course, we should not be stuck in the past, but we should learn very well and learn from it. Ladies and gentlemen, With respect to the sovereign decision of British voters, it was therefore necessary to work to ensure that our Hungarian compatriots living outside can continue their work, if you will, in terms of their situation, and in this respect it is welcome that the rights of Hungarians living in Britain are not at risk. The British Government still welcomes Hungarian workers after the separation, so the most important objective for the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people is met. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-26	Once again, I give the floor to Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, yesterday the Brexit agreement was signed, and the withdrawal of the British is an event that if someone, let's say, seriously raised ten years ago, would probably be sent on leave. On the one hand, I would like to say that the protection of workers in Britain, the protection of Hungarian workers, is of particular importance for the government, and we must ensure that they are not discriminated against because of the withdrawal of the British. The second aspect is that it is a net contributor country, the second largest economy in the Union, and their exit may result in a smaller EU budget, so that budgetary negotiations will be tougher, especially if people in Brussels are asked to reduce existing support programmes. Brexit also has a third aspect: it is an extraordinary symbol of the fact that the leaders of Brussels have lost their way in recent years. They wanted more Europe, but they made bad decisions, or they didn't, and the end result will be a smaller European Union. Brexit is a warning sign of the cost of not focusing political decision-makers on the essential issues or refusing to hear the voice of citizens or politicalising against their will. Unfortunately, if the leaders in Brussels did not take this lesson into account, they would not want to make decisions that they are not authorized to take into account. We are nearing the end of this European electoral cycle, and, as we look at it, the farewell gift of the elite in Brussels would be a system of institutions that would help complete immigration and streamline it, and this unsolicited Brussels package contains everything that we have raised our voice against in recent years. [[14.10]] One of the important elements of the package is the migrant visa, which would mean easier entry for immigrants. This will be voted again in the European Parliament in December. We did not have the majority the other day, and we have the feeling that Members will be voted on until we have this majority. The government calls on Fidesz-KDNP representatives to act with all possible means against the proposal of the migrant visa. The opposition representatives, opposition groups, are not mentioned because the representatives of PM, MSZP and DK in Brussels voted in favour of this proposal. This is not the only element of the emerging institutional system, they want to transform border protection, the right to border protection at the expense of the Member States, they want to standardise asylum procedures, also at the expense of Member States' rights. The quota has not been off the agenda while doubling EU spending on migration. At this point again, this question is related to Brexit, because they want to spend more money on immigration. [[It's grumpy. The president wants silence by jogging the bell.]] In the meantime, the EU budget will be smaller. The only way to do this is to cut the existing funds, so Hungary must, once again, prepare for the debate on this. That is enough reason, overall, to say no to this package, because it is indeed a house of migration horrors. As is already known, the government has launched a series of forums in major cities on the future of Europe, and these forums have been full everywhere. The best way to summarise what has been said in the forums is that security is still a priority for Hungarians, and they do not support Brussels' withdrawal of rights from us in strategic areas. We consider it important that we deliver these voices, these suggestions to the authorities before the European elections, so the government has sent written summaries of the forums not only to the European Commission, the European Council, but also to French President Emmanuel Macron, even because he himself called for a similar consultation of citizens. He suggested that there should be such forums in all countries. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the Eurobarometer survey, which says that, according to European citizens, migration, immigration is the most important issue in Europe today, preventing youth unemployment and economic growth. This also means that the months ahead, the European campaign, will be determined by this issue. The position of the opposition parties is already known, and it is also known why we are fighting. In order to fight this, we ask the Hungarians for their support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-28	Dear Parliament, At the end of the speeches before the agenda, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-11-26-29	Dear Parliament, Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Horváth, Fidesz; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; László Hajdu, DK.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda on Tuesday: Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Hajász, KDNP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Péter Ungár, LMP applied for a speech after the agenda. On Wednesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Thursday.
u2018-11-26-30	Dear Parliament, We now decide on the parliamentary consent necessary to withdraw the bill. So please take your seats and check if your card is in the voting machine. I would like to inform you that, on 20 November 2018, the rapporteur, Mr T/388 on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority areas. Revocation of bill No 1. The house rules are 66. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament's consent is required after the completion of the detailed debate. So that's what we're going to decide now. I ask the House whether T/388 will contribute. Revocation of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to withdraw the bill by 132 votes in favour, no votes against, with 13 abstentions. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The MSZP Group has proposed that T/3630 on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has rejected the proposal. The MSZP group also suggested that T/3636 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 at this meeting should also not take place. Please indicate by raising your hands that you agree with the proposal. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House disagrees with the proposal. The MSZP Group also suggested that T/3637 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has also rejected this motion. The MSZP Group still proposes that T/3628 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the organisation of working time and the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work. The general discussion of the number 1 proposal is not to take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority in this House did not accept this motion either. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. We are now deciding on a personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/3693 presented by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2018-11-26-31	Dear Parliament, 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Point 1 of Parliamentary Decision No 1 is amended as follows. The National Assembly elects Péter Ungár, LMP, member of the National Security Committee to replace Dr. Bernadett Szél, an independent member of the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2018-11-26-32	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask this House whether it accepts S/3693. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 141 votes to none, with 14 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:19 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What happens after the support of the housing savings system is launched? On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State will respond to the interpellation in this connection by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, which is competent in this regard. Congressman, please.
u2018-11-26-33	Mr President, Dear House, It is well known that about 1.5 million living contracts were also known in terms of house savings and state support, and a lot of Hungarians have tried to build a foundation for their future from several social groups and classes in this way, say, to collect a CSOK part of themselves, but also to find many among our older or retired compatriots who have tried to achieve their elderly housing goals, home expansion and other different goals. [[14.20]] I would also like to say that the government is lying when it comes to leading out housing savings, since it claims that its original basic purpose would have been to acquire an independent, own home, while this is not factually true. With this solution, for example, condominiums were able to raise money for renovations, young people were able to pay for a loan for next housing, as I mentioned, to collect various amounts. Therefore, the justification was false. We also see that while the government is trying to persuade as many as possible of the CSOK, I would support this, but this CSOK can be used by very few, relatively narrow circles. It requires a relatively high net salary, typically higher than the Hungarian average salary, and the applicants meet with narrowing conditions that most of the pre-emptors are excluded from the CSOK. Here too, the government often praises the expansion of CSOK, but it has not increased the amount of aid, but the amount of credit that can be taken up. If we add to all this that so far pre-savvy housing has received state aid for collecting a CSOK-self, and from now on it is not, it is factually stated that those affected will be pushed into much higher debt by government representatives when deciding to drive out house savings. It is also amazing that the government does not respond to typical life situations, how to finance a boiler change in a condominium, a renovation after 80-90 percent of the condominiums have used a similar construction. So I would like a specific answer as to what a typical house dweller can expect in terms of rising costs. I would also like to call on the pro-government representatives to end the threat they have mentioned in relation to pre-saving workers for housing in the last days regarding forced contracts that will or will not be subject to financial supervision. I'm telling you, despite all the rumors, the majority could have signed such a contract in good faith. If they find a net abuse, they will certainly investigate it, but the fact that the financial supervision that has been closed under the Hungarian National Bank led by Matolcsy will examine the Hungarian citizens in a mass way is quite simply outrageous. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But the main question is what message they have for young Hungarians who have a home goal and wish to stay home. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-34	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Based on this interpellation, Jobbik continues to require an inefficient, non-savory, housing savings fund system. What everyone knows today in Hungary: the essence is that the saver puts in 70 percent, the state adds 30 percent, this 100 percent is used by bank-owned housing savings banks, i.e. it is put out for lending. And don't give, God, it's possible that one of the Hungarians is going to pay his savings into the housing savings bank, and then he will take his own money and 30 percent of the state's support as a loan, he will pay his interest rate, that interest will increase the profits of the banks, and his savings will essentially bring him no returns, results, or 30 percent, which the state has provided. There is nothing more evidence of this than the fact that from 2010 the housing savings banks generated HUF 60 billion in profits, of which HUF 30 billion was taken out as dividends. House savings banks are bank-owned, foreign, largely foreign bank-owned. Basically, this system wasn't good for anyone but the banking system. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus, Mary!]] And it looks like it's for Jobbik. Yeah, for Jobbik, which we can't prove any better than... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes several times.]]
u2018-11-26-36	Congresswoman, if you're nervous, I'll send you a glass of water.
u2018-11-26-37	...in two days they were able to make 140,000 new deals. [[István Szávay intervenes. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're nuts! You guys are crazy!]] How's that? 140,000 in two days? If it hadn't been in the interest of the banks, [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, 140,000 transactions could have been made in two days? It's 16 hours in two days. This means that ten thousand transactions were made per working hour. Obviously, this was only possible if it was essentially in the interest of the banking system. Now, this is the system Jobbik wants to bring back now, because he initiated a referendum, filed a bill that failed before the Parliament. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: He did not make it to the Parliament!]] But let's see what a real home creation program Fidesz has actually developed, as well as a support system. Let us not forget that in 2010, more than two million people suffered from the problem of foreign exchange lending. In order to create a well-founded, good housing support system, foreign exchange lending had to be liquidated, eliminated and, unfortunately, its negative consequences. The first task was this. In the first cycle, Fidesz-KDNP administration and the Parliament managed to cope with this. After that, it is possible to create a completely new housing program, a family home-building discount. This has happened since 1 July 2015. Ninety-two thousand families took advantage of this opportunity, and it's over 265 billion in the budget. But there are several reasons why this works. One reason is that the employment and income situation has fundamentally changed. After all, more than 700 thousand people work in Hungary today and live from work than in 2010. The other is the income situation. The income situation has also improved significantly in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Hungarian people's salaries have increased significantly for several years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-38	I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-11-26-39	Mr President, Dear House, Not only can this answer not be accepted, Mr Secretary, but your professional credibility is being questioned. It's quite amazing what you've said here. He said in the minutes that cheap lending for housing purposes, which Hungarians can take, can reach, disturbs you; that an industry operates profitably. If there are abuses, they must be eliminated. But at the moment, when the soil is ravaged, they're gonna napalm the whole garden, and they're gonna shut it down, and they're gonna ban access to it. It's pretty amazing. I don't know what they think of themselves. They talk about increasing the profits of banks, while collaborating with the banks concerned, they allowed foreign exchange lenders to be fooled. In the year of so-called families, eviction records are set, Mr. Secretary, what are you talking about? ! And we have to tell you: when the cheap lending for housing purposes is advertised within the CSOK, an orphan could not answer where and to whom the people in the condominium could turn, how our elderly countrymen's housing goals will be met and what they could use at all. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who have so far been supported by Hungary in housing savings. So you're collaborating with the banks, and you should be ashamed of your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Long-lasting murmur in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-40	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister:. The year of families means that families will be baptised this year? You may not notice, but basic food is becoming more expensive! It's an address. The congresswoman has the floor.
u2018-11-26-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The government says that 2018 is the year of families. What we do know is that in reality, it means the year of the Orban and the families of the buddies. The centralizations, mergers and mugs in different areas are filling both his and his pockets with corruption that is even more serious than usual. But what do the taxpayers, the Hungarian families, get? Not much, more and more, is that they leave Hungary. Today, parents only see that more and more schooling costs for children, which in the future will not be supported by employers because of the killing of cafeteria. Students experience the housing crisis on their own, and rent prices are skyrocketing. When you go into the store, you see that everything is getting more expensive, and I add that sometimes you get the same yogurt, margarine, fruit juice in smaller packages. It is not because a government is friendly with a family every day that the pro-government politicians say it to our faces; it is not because a government is friendly with a flag with a lame logo that adorns bridges or settles the cities that it is the year of families and launchs a national consultation full of false questions for billions that do not give any answer to real problems. [[14.30]] Prices broke loose in the year of the families, inflation accelerated. Five years ago, there was no precedent for an average of 3.6 percent of annualised declines, and the situation is even worse than food, with an average increase of 4.6 percent compared to September last year, which is also remarkable because the weight of food is significant, reaching 25.4 percent in residential consumption. Compared to the 3 percent inflation this year, the price of potatoes has increased by almost 30 percent since January, the price of fresh vegetables has increased by 18 percent and fruit by 20 percent. Looking back for one year, the price increase is even higher: 36.5% for potatoes and 38.4% for fresh vegetables. Mr Secretary of State, we are not yet talking about Europe's highest VAT, the 27 percent VAT, which is the most important for the poorest. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State: what does the government do to prevent food prices from rising further? What does the government do to prevent the price of fuel from rising further? Sometimes it's more than 400 forints now, isn't it? Why doesn't the government act decisively against the rise in rent prices? Why are Hungarian families, young people and pensioners not supported to a greater extent? In the meantime, how much does the government spend on the campaign for the year of the family? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How much do you spend on another unnecessary, demagogic national consultation? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-26-42	Once again, Mr András Tállai is the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and To his usual high-pitched speech, I was prepared to look at your activities in Parliament on this which you are talking about. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Here's what I can say from Parliament's minutes. You and your party voted in 2015 to reduce the VAT on pigmeat from 27% to 5%; they voted against [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP voted against. In 2016, Parliament voted to reduce the VAT on poultry meat, fresh milk, eggs from 27% to 5%; its party abstained, you abstained, and you did not vote for the reduction in Hungarian. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] In 2017, Parliament voted to reduce VAT on fish meat and the Internet from 27 percent to 5 percent; MSZP voted against and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély voted against. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! The president's ringing the bell.]] In 2018, already in this cycle, Parliament voted to reduce the VAT on milk from 27% to 5%; MSZP voted against, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély voted against. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interventions in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you say in Parliament that the price of food and government is high, the Parliament can only reduce its tax because there is no other market intervention, you demand it on the government, when you and your party do not vote for what the government is putting before Parliament in any case, and you say, honourable Member, that you are preaching water and drinking wine. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms and information in his opposition ranks.]] No wonder you may not have been a Member, but your fellow party members, who were on the government at the time, took away the 13th month's wage from the public sector and took away the 13th month's pension from pensioners. [[Gergely Harvesto: What you gave me back...?]] And by the way, as regards VAT, it has been reduced in these two cycles or in three cycles you have not once supported, you have just raised the VAT on basic foods, and indeed, inflation has been skyrocketed, although inflation is indeed a tax on the poor. If anyone has done anything against the poor in this country, they have been you, your party and your government. Do you know how to make a system where people can move forward, have a better existence and a better standard of living? First of all, people must be protected; they must be protected from, for example, foreign exchange lending. You didn't defend him, you pushed two million people into this cruel system. Then you have to create the conditions to reduce the overhead. In your day, the rent didn't fall, it increased. In our time, it decreased, and its rise stopped. You don't support families either, because you've taken away the family tax relief. A family with two children will now have a family tax relief of HUF 40,000 per month from 1 January 2019. Then, too, it is difficult to create an increase in people's income to make a better life. [[Gergely Arató: Lőrinc Mészáros has already succeeded!]] The Fidesz government, believe it or not, has established conditions for a realistic increase in people's income a few years ago. Well, that's how you do it, not the way you do it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-44	I will ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-11-26-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, it's better if you and I don't talk about my drinking habits, because I think you're gonna get worse than me. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It is also clear that what you were talking about, how we did not vote for the VAT reduction... Secretary of State, how can an egg cost 40 forints then? How can 1600 forints in Hungary be a kilo of vegetables? How can 300-400 HUF a kilo of potatoes happen? And in most cases, the hidden premium is now 350 grams of half-litre sour cream. Mr. Secretary, let me tell you something else. You prepared these cuts in such an outrageous package of laws that there may have been a positive thing or two in the package of laws, but many others eviscerated the Hungarian families. [[István Szilárd Németh: There was no legislative package...]] In essence, this is how every law is voted in Parliament, that it may be a positive step, but there will be ten other difficult steps for Hungarian families. I don't accept it, Mr. President.
u2018-11-26-46	I ask this House if they will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 110 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: the case of Gruevski with the title of Hungarian diplomats. It's up to Congressman.
u2018-11-26-47	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to touch on your wonderful story, the Gruevski case, because it is amazing that Europe itself is the most anti-immigration painter's government bringing illegal migrants into Hungary, smuggling criminals into this country. You say that Mr Gruevski has crossed the green border, which has nothing to do with the Hungarian government; this is either true or not. But they can no longer deny that from then on, Albania may have been handed by your diplomats in small cars, in state cars for public pay for this criminal until he reached Hungary. I don't know if he had to make a Coke or chocolate, or if he didn't need it, but they took care of him, got a real VIP supply, got into Hungary as a VIP migrater. How did you get into Hungary? After all, you claim in a rather pathetic way that it was enough to show your ID at the border; you didn't show it anyway, because it was carried in a diplomatic carriage, but you can't cross the Hungarian border with a Macedonian ID without a passport. So the question arises as to how this good man came to Hungary. How did you get into this country, which you claim to be bordering with stone, right on the Serbian border where he most likely got into this country? How did you get in here? The same diplomats who were brought in, by the way, by name and address, were also written by the international press, which you dared not deny? What document did you get into the country with? Was there a smuggling operation, and did you come without a document, or did you give him any documents? So what was this document about? Did you have legal access to this document, or was there a forgery? It is said that Mr Gruevski is a person of particular importance and that he has already spoken about this before the agenda, Madam Vice-President of the Group, who can be persons who require special treatment; no, Mr Gruevski cannot be. There is no such thing as ten years of special treatment for prime minister criminals, no matter how much you wish. As a result, they also had to break their own law, according to which everyone who does not require special treatment has to seek asylum in the transit zone and stay there until they receive this kind of entitlement. [[14.40]] In all of this, once again, Hungarian diplomats helped Mr Gruevski. I ask Mr. Secretary of State, instead of Minister, who ordered the diplomats to escape a convicted person. Who gave the order to smuggle in a convicted felon as an illegal immigrant? Who, and on what basis, exempted Gruevski from the provisions in force during the crisis caused by mass immigration? How do you intend to prevent it, as you have also violated the Schengen Code, the European Commission's foreseeable infringement procedure? Finally, what would you like to do if Macedonia or one of the other countries concerned [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Are you going to the international court for violation of the Vienna Convention? [[Applause from the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-26-48	I give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Congressman was so eager to shout behind our backs; please be aware of us, because there is a risk of hearing loss. It's like a new parliamentary genre, the Canon of the Arató, singing high. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] I respectfully inform the honourable Members and the representatives of DK that I am pleased that they are watching Minister Szijjártó's communications and statements, and I encourage you to continue this activity. But I'm sorry to see that the kind of fake news that they started last week continues. The Hungarian diplomats did not participate in any escape or escape. Stop slandering Hungarian diplomats! Nikola Gruevski presented his travel documents in three border crossings, so he was checked six times in total, and in all cases he was allowed to continue. It is also known that the Immigration and Asylum Authority has allowed its hearing to take place in Budapest in accordance with Hungarian and international law. I understand, of course, that you do not sympathize with Nikola Gruevski's activities, because he built a fence on the Macedonian border, strengthened border protection and wanted to stop illegal immigration; and you always do that, given that you are pro-immigration. We can remember that when Ferenc Gyurcsány bounced down to the Hungarian fence and held some migrants holding hands there, he did everything he could to get them in, he wanted to bring them in under his arm. We can also remember when you did a ridiculous reality show in your own villa with illegal immigrants. I wish once we could see that the Balliberal opposition is taking matters that are really important to the Hungarians with such determination! But that was never the case for this opposition. We can also remember that Tamás Bauer had not even spoken so long ago about the need to install migrants, and this is how he said the problems could be solved. We can also remember that Ferenc Gyurcsány gets a rash when he hears about Hungarians from abroad, he does everything he can against Hungarians from abroad. We're talking about an ex-Prime Minister, your leader, let's not forget that. [[Gergely Harvesto: What's the answer?]] You have destroyed this country economically, and now your safety would be thrown away at any time. On the subject and on the subject, and on that subject, you are constantly putting up outdated records, and, in fact, [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] Let's be honest, your entire party is an outdated record. In fact, it's an old age (intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!) The ruins of their party are here, but it's good that they're here, because we can always remember how damaging they are. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-50	I ask the Member if he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-51	Mr President, I don't accept the answer. I'm sorry that the Secretary of State's ear is offended by the honest word, but I can't change that. And you didn't answer my questions. He did not say who ordered diplomats to participate in human trafficking; he did not say what document Mr Gruevszki had received from Hungary; he did not say why he was exempted as a VIP migrant from a number of measures in the asylum procedure. And to mention that Mr Bauer repeated Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's earlier statement, this only describes you. Before my fellow Members press the button, I would like to remind all my fellow Members that Mr Gruevski fled the country leaving behind his henchmen and his mamelukes, and they are now enjoying the less comfortable benefits of the Macedonian prison system. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-26-52	I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote. Gergely Harvesto chanted in a high voice: Attention! Here comes the hop, hop, hop, hop! It's a rare applause.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 39, with no abstentions. It is now up to Mrs Krisztina Hohn, on behalf of the LMP, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What about water affairs? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-53	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In addition, the Commission notes that the marketing services agreements concluded between Ryanair and Ryanair are not compatible with the internal market, and that the marketing services agreements concluded between Ryanair and Ryanair are not compatible with the internal market. Law on water utility services sets out the rights and obligations which must be fulfilled in order to ensure the smoothness of water supply, the protection of national water utility assets, sustainable development in the water utility services sectors, and the objectives for the protection of drinking water. The law contains several principles, including the principle of security of supply, the principle of supply responsibility, the principle of service provider responsibility, the principle of solidarity, the principle of cost recovery and the principle of minimum cost. The principle of reimbursement of costs states that the fee payable for the use of the water utility service must be reimbursed for the justified costs associated with the operation of the water utility. The question is whether it will actually pay off, as more and more signals are coming from mayors in recent years, that new capital injections are required by the local government-owned waterworks to ensure the smooth water supply required by law. Some waterworks are raising capital or otherwise trying to cover the missing funds. But what's the problem? As is certainly known to you, the municipalities have the opportunity to apply for a water premium, but only those who are in line with the calls for proposals. However, the problem is that this amount of funding that can be obtained has been decreasing for years, because the envelope is not increasing, but the number of applicants is constantly increasing. Unfortunately, it is typical that state-owned companies receive a significant proportion of this amount. Another problem is the utility tax, which, as we know, is defined in meters and not in proportion to revenue. This means that a water plant with a small village supply area pays more utilities than an urban area. In the case of small villages, there is not enough revenue from the settlement than the tax on that settlement, so the waterworks in this area have more problems. An important measure for the population is the reduction of the rent. However, it is a fact that the loss of water prices that has not increased since 2011 needs to be replaced. State water works where losses are compensated, contrary to municipal-owned waterworks. It's not the government's intention to prove that the waterworks are inoperative and that nationalization is necessary, is it? It is not now that the municipalities will be forced to drive themselves into debt to keep the waterworks viable, is it not? Because most municipalities, especially small settlements, can't do that. This is a country where the task is carried out. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] are they providing the necessary resources? Thank you for the floor.
u2018-11-26-54	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent months, you have spent a great deal of effort to mislead the public about certain events and, in some cases, to visualize confusion and chaos. Those who had hoped that the spectacular failure of the attempts would deter you from further political hystericalism, unfortunately, had to be disappointed, as we are once again witnessing the beginning of rumors and deception in the context of another public service. This can only be called an unfair political maneuver against people, which can be a desperate attempt by a party suffering from internal crisis to draw attention to itself. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your claims regarding the situation of municipal-owned water utilities are completely unfounded. Do you think it is a problem that more and more local authorities recognise the opportunities for public water and sewerage support of HUF 4.5 billion? Do you think it is a problem that the government is willing to operate the system of public burdens without punishing the performance of people and businesses? [[14.50]] Do you really think that the government that took over nearly HUF 1,400 billion in debt from local authorities between 2011 and 2014 is now trying to hurt the settlements? Do you really believe that the accumulated debt of the village of Manfa, which has been run by you for eight years, was HUF 14.5 million, was consolidated by the government in order to re-produce the problem in the period of left-wing governments? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to water utilities, the real problem is that the sector is looking at decades of reconstruction lags, and that there is no way to build modern, sustainable and cost-effective operations on backward tools and outdated technologies. As in most areas, it is up to the current government to work out this lag. For this reason, at the end of 2017, the government started to develop a strategy that underpins the long-term vision of the water utility sector, and as a first step in the 2018 budget, we planned the public reconstruction fund for water utilities with HUF 1.5 billion to meet the needs for reconstruction. A model is on the agenda to ensure the conditions for the long-term high-quality operation of water utilities by scheduling the necessary replacement and renovation tasks and providing tendering opportunities. Everyone, whether in a city or in a village, can be sure that the government, as it has done so far, will continue to take the necessary steps to ensure that all households continue to have good quality, healthy and affordable drinking water. In the meantime, I heard and saw in my paper that I miscalculated that you were mayor of the Manfa village for 12 years. I apologize for this mistake. Then you saw how the municipality collected the HUF 14.5 million, had direct experience, and you know how the abolition of this debt of HUF 14 million and the government's takeover had a beneficial effect on your budget. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-56	I ask the honourable Member if she accepts the answer.
u2018-11-26-57	I can't accept the answer. I am very sorry that Mr Secretary of State was almost offended by my speech. It was a simple, simple professional speech, without political mud throwing. The other is that I did not think that the debt of the village of Manfa would be mentioned here in Parliament, but while we are at it, I would be very happy to tell you about it in a private conversation about what it was made of, which was withdrawn from the municipalities that year. They took from Manfa just as much as they consolidated. Thank you very much for the fantastically unprofessional response, by the way.
u2018-11-26-58	I understand that Congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 37, with 1 abstention. Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources entitled "The Death of Freeze." It's up to Congressman.
u2018-11-26-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the latest figures, 13 have been frozen to death since September, including eight have died in their unheated homes. Even though they lie in people's faces that homeless law solves the problems of people on the streets, that banning them from underpasses is good for everyone, they actually put more people in danger than ever before. For eight years, the Hungarian state has spent almost no money on homelessness, and people are sleeping on each other's hills and backs at hotels. There are not enough social workers, and those who are are not properly paid. No social housing, no rehabilitation programs. What the government is doing right now is endangering their profession. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that housing poverty in Hungary affects millions. In Hungary, more than 1.5 million people lived in an overcrowded apartment in 2017, where the roof leaks, the walls are wet, there is no toilet and bathroom, or the apartment is too dark. Of the EU Member States, the situation is only worse in Romania than Hungary. And even though these people live in inhumane conditions, the terror of being homeless hangs over them every day. Currently around 1.4 million households, one third of households, have some kind of credit, and at least 13 percent of households have a backlog of public utilities over 60 days, while 750 thousand enforcement cases are ongoing in the value of 7 percent of annual GDP. Given these facts, it is understandable why there are about a dozen evictions each day. Your answer is that, my honourable members of the Government, our fellow citizens who have already been deprived of their human dignity, needing help and humane treatment, leave only one possibility: freeze to death. It is not true that there is enough space, it is not true that the state is doing everything it can to prevent these people from living on the streets. Dear Secretary of State, Why does the government that considers itself a Christian put these people at risk instead of helping them? Why don't you raise the wages of social workers? Why is there no law against eviction without accommodation? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-26-60	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The faction or the representative who has the opportunity to heat up his own home, his own apartment, which has tripled the price of gas and doubled the price of electricity. And you speak of the situation of the homeless in the name of the party that has done nothing to help the homeless, in a sense, as opposed to the government that wishes to provide real help. I can deny a lot of what you have said, honourable Member. First of all, you said the government wasn't spending anything on homeless care. Well, that's HUF 9.1 billion, which for you is nothing that you don't see in the budget. Of course, if you measure it to the amount stolen from subway 4, it may not be a big amount for you, but it's a huge source of care for the homeless. Another HUF 300 million surplus, a reserve fund, is provided this year precisely to carry out the increased tasks required by the law. If you look at the number of people who have a problem with the proper heating of the apartment in recent years due to the reduction of the rent, and you look up Eurostat's annual publications on this issue, say, in 2012 and 2017, you see that 766 thousand fewer people now have a problem with paying the rent, and this is mainly due to the reduction of the rent and wage increases. If you look at how much fewer people have problems with the repayment of loans today, if you add up the statistics of one of your favourite Eurostat, you will see that 1 million 89 thousand people are now less, thanks to the forinting, thanks to the possibility of end-payment, the price barrier and the accountability of banks. Well, that much less people have month after month problems covering their credit or housing costs. As far as homelessness is concerned, honourable Member, I also deny your statement that there is not enough room. I will also give you accurate data on the extent of the utilisation data in Budapest and the countryside, to be more precise, how much the utilisation data was last week: 80 per cent nationwide, while 78 per cent in Budapest. Therefore, there is still plenty of capacity without opening the overcapacity that could be opened during the crisis period. You know that there are 19 000 seats in total, not only in public institutions, but also in the institutions of various charitable and other aid organisations. We now work with 240 organizations to give the homeless a fresh start so that they can start a new life through homeless shelters instead of homeless people. I don't think the behavior that you guys are demonstrating, which protects the former state, is in the interest of any of the homeless. No homeless person is helped by protecting previous legislation, which was not sufficiently helpful for homeless people, since homelessness has survived. They have 9800 night shelters and temporary shelters, and we will open 1,600 extra beds when this is needed, with 7600 day capacity available. What was the consequence of the measure that entered into force on 15 October? If I'm just looking at the last few weeks when the weather got colder, we can say that 670 more people showed up at the homeless shelters. [[15.00]] But if I've been watching since the law came into force, how much more people have gone into homeless shelters, and not on the street or in the underpasses or in the woods, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] then there are 1115 more of them; 1115 more people were able to have a decent eruption. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-62	I ask the Member if he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-11-26-63	Mr. President. I can't accept the answer. I see that Mr. Secretary of State has many other ideas, but the fact is that people are freezing. That's the sad reality. And he didn't tell me anything meaningful about it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's all I was talking about.]] I like it when you're throwing your past at Parliament, and I would like to remind you, Mr Secretary, that in my youth, what you've done here in Parliament for the last few minutes has been called a dangerous avoidance of work. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The good old days. Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was better at the time of Kádár.]] It would be your job to give a representative a meaningful answer to what he asked as a question. Such substantive elements about my question were not even traceable in your reply. And it's dangerous because the behavior they're demonstrating helps people freeze, not prevent it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-26-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the response to the interpellation. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 109 votes in favour, 31 against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:, How much money has European taxpayers spent on financing illegal migration and thus terrorism? It's an address. Congressman Peter Agh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, For weeks, Hungarian and European public awareness has been very intensely concerned about how tens of thousands of irregular migrants have received anonymous credit cards that can be used by anyone, and on whose authority they have been authorised. European taxpayers, including Hungarian citizens, certainly did not authorize anyone to receive a monthly fixed allowance for their credit cards for the masses of illegal immigrants, which they could then use for what they wanted. It is a shame and an outrage that, while Hungary has spent millions of euros protecting the borders of the Hungarian and Schengen zones, Brussels plays the score of George Soros in an increasingly insane way, and no matter what methods, the point is that they can support the temptation of illegal immigrants to Europe. In Hungary, a cross-party consensus has been reached on the control of illegal immigration, and it is enough to look at the outcome of the 2016 referendum. [[Gergely Harvestó: It was invalid.]] 98 percent of people said no to illegal migration and the European Union's migrant-friendly policy; they thank me but do not ask for it. Dear Secretary of State, As an active member of the Soros network, he tried to make readers believe that there was nothing wrong with these anonymous bank cards, as there are many such cards in Hungary. Not much was needed to mention these cash substitution and regularly recapitalisation credit cards on the same page with simple store point collection cards. However, there is a very small difference between the two designs. That is, immigrants can use these funds for whatever they want. They arm themselves with it, buy branded clothes and technical equipment for themselves, but in large volumes they can even finance terrorism very intensively with taxpayers' money. That's outrageous. Dear Secretary of State, Hungarians have the right to know what their tax dollars paid to the European Union are being spent on in Brussels. We Hungarian people believe in a Europe of Christian culture, unlike the serialist Brussels bureaucrats. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether we know what amount of money could have migrated to illegal migrants and thus even to terrorist bank accounts. Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Menczer, Secretary of State, responds to your interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, the same thing has been happening since 2015 if we look at the last few years. In 2015, at the beginning of the illegal immigration crisis, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants from around the world looked at their watches at the same time, and saw that it was four o'clock, and that we should go to Europe. Obviously, this wasn't organised, and it has nothing to do with George Soros, is it, the pro-immigration politicians? But we know that's not true. It's been organized and controlled, and it's been happening ever since. Since then, there has been a debate, or perhaps there is no exaggeration to say that a fight on this issue must be stopped or illegal immigration organised. The Hungarian government's position is clear: this is a dangerous process that must be stopped and stopped. At the same time, we see that pro-immigration politicians and bureaucrats in Brussels and in the UN are on a completely different path. They want to organise immigration, and one of the new chapters you mentioned is the so-called migrant card. In this regard, I would like to put some myths to rest. It is said that this can only be used in one country, only in Greece, but only for food and the rest. Compared to this, in the international press, in order to say nothing else, investigative reports can be read about the arrival of migrants from one country to another in brand-new shoes, brand-new phones and other aids. In fact, even more serious, you can now see and know exactly what anonymous payment service is used to transfer illegal immigrants from one country to another, or who knows what amount. The dispatch is certainly done anonymously, if the removal requires some kind of ID, then migrant hosts, smugglers, or who knows who else will help with the withdrawal and delivery of money to migrants. So this is nothing more than financing illegal immigration. What is happening in Brussels and the United Nations is the organisation, financing, and even going further: what is going on must be made clear, the legalisation of illegal immigration. That's what's going on, that's the goal, nothing else, no magic, nothing special. It's exactly what we're saying is illegal, from the next moment they're saying it's legal and it's to be supported. This is, of course, absurd and unacceptable. In some ways, I stress, it's even like someone's taking the side of the burglar against the one whose house was broken into and telling him that it was a bit ugly, that's not good, but we'll arrange for you to get in in some other way. It's a betrayal of the people of Europe. Of course, we know that there are people in need, there are people in need who need help, but those who need help where the problem has occurred or at the nearest safe place to return to their homeland after the conflict has passed. It is also very important that decisions taken now have enormous weight, because decisions of this weight are typically never, in the event of a mistake, to be corrected again. And perhaps it is worth saying a few more words about the motivation of those who support immigration. On the one hand, there's the Balliberal pro-immigration political layer, and they're obviously doing what they're doing out of vote. Immigrants would never vote for Christian-Conservative parties. Then there's the layer of capital behind them, so to speak, the one George Soros and I used to identify for a reason. It's always easier to fish when you're confused, but it's a speculator. Let's never forget that. And what you think about the world and the course of the world is worth looking at an American interview from 10 or maybe 15 years ago, can be found; he is quite sincere about morality and amoral things there. And there's a third group that supports immigration out of net nonsense. About these three groups can be seen, and Hungary neither asks nor accepts illegal immigration. Thank you for your concern. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Péter Ágh if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2018-11-26-69	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you, I accept your response, which has highlighted how the European Union is assisting in this problem. I think this also shows that there is a big problem in Brussels. If we look at the political events of the weekend, we can see that the problem is already huge. Great Britain has not been kept within the European Union and migrants have not been kept outside. If we add the issue of migrant cards to all of this, then we can see that the problem is only added to it. This highlights the irresponsible policy making currently carried out by decision-makers in Brussels. I think it is time for us to come clean, and the European Parliament's election will give us a good opportunity to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2018-11-26-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, you have accepted the Secretary of State's reply. [[Interview from the benches of DK: Vote!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Hungary is strong and proud. Is that what our debt hospitals are? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor, please.
u2018-11-26-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, By the end of September, the debt of Hungarian hospitals is approaching HUF 46 billion. At the end of the summer, word came out that according to László Domokos, President of the SAO, hospital directors are responsible for increasing debt. According to the SAO's findings, it is not the government that gives little money for health care, but that the institutions operate uneconomically and incorrectly. I would like to quote it precisely:. Financially scandalous, anarchy-like conditions prevail in certain areas of health... where finances are not in order, new economic governance must be provided for the owner, i.e. the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The two hospitals in my constituency are unfortunately rich in debt: Tapolca's 83 and Aika's 485 million. And I have to correct that, because at the time of my interpellation, this was the data, and it is no longer correct, and we must not make it false. According to the latest figures, the debt of the Lip Hospital exceeded half a billion forints. However, it should be noted that there are also hospitals whose management is exemplary, such as the Petz Aladár Hospital in Győr, the teaching hospital has 1 million forints, and according to current data there is no debt. So the question arises: has the majority of hospitals in the country accumulated such debts because the hospital's management is malfunctioning, or is healthcare underfunded? Since, according to the SAO's findings, I quote, it is not the government that gives little money to health care, but the institutions are operating in an uneconomical and irregular way, so do you think that the hospital's management is responsible? If it's because of their bad management that hospitals are swimming in debt, why doesn't the government intervene? The hospital in Tapolca faced the same problem in 2012 and you believed the people of Tapolca that the elimination of active care, the change of structure, would be great for the people living here. It's been six years, but we can't detect it. Has the change of structure brought about the hopes we had? He's $83 million in debt right now. We're about to get to the hospital and when the thread, the gloves, or one of the diagnostic devices arrive, they're gonna hand it over with a national ribbon, while no one's handing over the hospital's debt to the public. It is outrageous that while you post posters of another 6 billion forints across the country, the institutions in which, once again, you save lives will be destroyed. So, I ask you, Honourable Secretary of State, whose fault is it that the debt of the institutions is increasing: government or poor economic management? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-26-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is interesting that Jobbik has a double opinion on the findings of the State Audit Office; now the Member has read them and has spoken out in agreement with them. However, when the same State Audit Office did not examine the management of hospitals, but Jobbike, you said such things: the SAO is constantly misleading the public about these sentences in relation to the SAO report quoted by you - ; they contain only a minimum of real facts; the SAO must return to the ground of legality; there are many empty pages in the SAO's reports and the whole procedure is already unconstitutional. On the other hand, you are talking about the SAO's document as a document to be fully adopted. Of course, you have to clear that up with your own voters. As far as the hospital of your lips is concerned, honourable Member, the lip hospital can continue to function smoothly, without any problems or problems, and have managed to replace the anesthesiologists and intensive therapy that have passed away. And I am not saying this, honourable Member, it is not the government that says this, but your opposition fellow Member, Imre László, said that. I read it to quote exactly what he said. He also explained why you hadn't published this kind of news about your lips hospital in the past, as a result of these broadcasts, you also edited your interpellation. Your opposition colleague writes that: the broadcasts have exceeded the threshold that would have been appropriate for us to look at these things in their reality. So you, honourable Member, are being denied by the government, not just by the hospital, but also by your own opposition fellow Member. How much more we spend on health care now than in 2010 is a rather high amount. If you look at the Budget Laws 10 and 19 you will find a surplus of HUF 647 billion in this. If you look at the two hospitals concerned, you will also experience a noticeable increase in costs, a noticeable increase in state aid, even though, for example, no municipal support has been received in the last year in the case of the Lips Hospital. So if you look at the number of lips, the Hungarian Imre Hospital, in 2012, OEP funding was 1.9 billion forints, now 3.5 billion forints, so 1.6 billion forints, 82 percent higher. Meanwhile, in recent years, since the introduction of the state reservation, Magyar Imre Hospital has had a consolidation and other budgetary surplus, HUF 2.3 billion, while from development sources there has been more than HUF 3.1 billion. If you look at Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca, you can feel the rise here, from HUF 799 million to HUF 923 million the hospital's OEP funding increased in 14-15-16-17. This means that you can manage with 123 million HUF, 15 percent higher, and not since 12 years, but only in the last three years. [[There's constant noise in the room.]] If you look at how much support you have received in addition, you will receive HUF 591 million as a different maintenance support, while from development resources HUF 2.6 billion. However, these additional resources have also appeared nationwide, mainly as a cover for wage increases, as there has been a large, noticeable wage increase in health care in recent years. And this was also shown by the fact that, as I said, healthcare has a total of HUF 647 billion more resources at its disposal, but we have also been able to spend HUF 37 billion on various restructuring aids, which served exactly the purpose of reducing later debt, so that debt accumulation in these hospitals is now reduced. But that's why it's happening. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] an investigation in hospitals which accumulate the highest debt and which accumulate the lowest debt, so that we can develop best practices in terms of the difference between the two. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-75	Secretary of State, we have failed to answer the specific question. I'm gonna help you out a little bit. However, you always agree with SAO statements, so if that's the case, the hospital's management is mismanaging. That's why we wanted to get details from both hospitals about what this debt was made up of. The management of Tapolca Hospital gave us these data from here, too, I would like to thank him, but after 15 days the Lipai Hospital asked for a two-day extension, and then sent us a rejection letter, as this money is not public money, he lost his public money character, so we turned to the Data Protection Authority. However, it can be seen that the debt of the hospital in Tapolca is reduced day by day, even from month to month, while the lip hospital is rising by tens of millions from week to week. So here we have to say, Mr. Secretary, to the question of who you think is the bad owner of this hospital, the state or the management. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I couldn't answer, so I can't accept it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-26-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 27 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Representative László Földi, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the Government do to increase day-to-day surgery? It's an address. Speak for Congressman László Earth, please.
u2018-11-26-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In February 2015, the Government adopted Decision No 1039/2015. In its resolution adopted the Health Sector Strategy of Healthy Hungary until 2020, in which, among other things, the Fidesz-KDNP government set development objectives such as the establishment of an electronic health service space or the improvement of a one-day surgical system. [[15.20]] The fact that this sectoral strategy is a thoughtful and desired concept is no better proof that the eHealth service system is already in place after the tests, and according to the news, progress in the field of one-day surgery is expected in the coming years. According to the definition of overnight surgery, the patient is scheduled to appear at the hospital, where after a medical examination he undergoes surgery. After that, a hospital bed will be cared for and you can leave the medical facility within 24 hours. Of course, one day of surgery should only be performed if the patient's general condition is good, it is not expected to require blood transfusion due to blood loss during surgery, and the pain after surgery is expected to be minimal; in the case of adults, self-sufficient care is provided for the child; he declares that the housing and hygiene conditions are adequate and can be reached within 30 minutes from the place of residence of the healthcare institution. The advantage of one-day surgery is undisputed in the fact that everyone in their own environment recovers with greater spiritual strength, thus reducing care time, faster recovery, and a much more cost-effective system can work. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, it is not enough to define the frameworks, and to increase overnight surgery, infrastructure and other improvements are necessary in any way. In Western European care systems, the proportion of cases in one-day care is 60-90 percent, while in Hungary this number is below 40 percent. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what the government is doing to increase the condition of one-day surgery. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to his interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you said, it is beneficial for everyone to perform as many procedures as possible as a one-day surgical procedure. This is beneficial for the patient, since he can get home early, have fewer complications, be more beneficial for his job, as he can return there sooner and better for the state, as the cost of healing can be less in the long term. Reduced hospital stay, return to work and less complications are all advantages of one-day interventions. If you look at the extent to which a one-day procedure is usually performed in Hungary, these are eye lens implants, kidney stones, heart catheterization, joint reflection and hernia surgery. These are the most commonly used, but there are also numerous other interventions, since there are 554 surgeries or interventions that can now be performed in Hungary in the framework of one-day care. In addition, in recent years, we have also tried to encourage this 554 intervention to be granted without restrictions since 2015. It is also encouraging that the health insurance company pays 10 percent higher if one of the procedures is carried out as a one-day intervention. So the hospital's better off getting higher funding, the patient's better off getting home early. If you look at this, of the 554 types of surgery, of which a total of 362 750 were performed last year, the proportion of one-day interventions is 298 764, so in nearly 300 thousand cases, one-day interventions have already taken place. This is more than 82 percent of one-day interventions. And overall, we paid HUF 34.4 billion for this. This is a huge growth since 2010, because at that time there were 138 thousand such interventions, as I said, now 300,000. This means that the proportion of one-day interventions has more than doubled. This shows that if a state tries carefully to deal with the health issue, pays attention to internal proportions, and tries to keep patients' interests in mind, it is possible to double, if appropriate, the form of intervention that presents a lower risk to patients, which has the same results and cures. For further one-day surgery, we provide many, many billions of HUF support from various frameworks. From 8 billion HUF development resources, 18 hospitals will develop one-day surgery at 20 locations; 15 sites will be built, converted, supply of equipment, human resources training or public information; 15 thousand medical devices will be purchased from 4.7 billion forints to create the conditions for one-day surgery, mainly endoscopes, laparoscopes, operating X-rays, surgical instruments. The reconstruction, construction and construction of the plants is worth 2.3 billion forints, and we also try to provide resources for training and methodology of the remaining amount. It is therefore clear that if there is an important goal for patients to heal as quickly as possible and for them to be injured as little as possible, the extent to which the intervention is reduced, the less risk that the wound becomes infected or spend several days lying in the hospital, and this may not only delay the conditions of recovery at home, but also lead to other risks, if a government provides additional resources, simplified legislation, while properly building the incentive system for funding, a positive change of up to 100% for patients in health care can occur. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Mr. László Földi if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I accept your answer. Let me add, however, that in the increase in the proportion of the development of one-day surgery, I think that the programme for Healthy Budapest and the Pest County regional development programme will work very well, including the hospitals in Pest County, where I live, Cegléden, Toldi Ferenc Hospital, and I hope that with the modern tools installed here we can increase the proportion of one-day surgery even more. I trust that this will be the case, and this field of health will improve. Thanks again for the answer, and I'll take it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Our Interpelling fellow Member has accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Member Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, How long? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mrs Andrea Bártfai-Mager, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, responds to the request of Secretary of State János Fónagy, who is responsible for managing the national assets. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It's an honor. I expected something else, I'll tell you in a manly way. I have dealt with this topic several times over the last few weeks here in Parliament, and I see that there is chaos not only on the streets, but also a little bit in numbers and in public procurement. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm starting to see that there's something about this case that's not right. Other times, the brave and warrior NAV is now acting like a coward, and we have heard that for several months this company has not given up its balance, yet elsewhere, for a much smaller cause, there are very serious retortions. I don't want to waste my precious time reading what's in my question, but I'd rather deal with what's been published in the last few days as a four-person ft. has won in public procurement the right to recover the outstanding amounts. In itself, I think, Mr State Secretary and Honourable House, that it is a huge responsibility to leave the recovery of one of Hungary's most important public services to a four-man private company. But even more surprisingly, this kft., before the final result was announced, began to collect the staff. So in fact, while public procurement is a completely open matter in Hungary, we have heard that everything is fine here, this company already knew what was going to happen in public procurement. [[15.30]] The question, therefore, Mr Secretary of State, is I would like to ask you and everyone whether the moment has come, in your opinion, when it is worth rethinking whether you set off on the right path in 2016, when you set up this centralised company. Isn't this the moment to stop, to liquidate this company, to terminate it, and to return the activity to where it really belongs? We've heard that this company has a very serious shortage, and there's another shortage. If your answer to my first question is no, then I would like to ask you whether you are planning to compensate for this public HUF 20 billion of public money, i.e. public money, and possibly a deficit of nearly the same magnitude on the basis of the figures, which will arise this year. The third is whether any kind of inspection is planned for the collection of prizes, so this is the four-man birch company. can you sit back and win public procurement in Hungary, or will there be any kind of control and attention? And in the matter of violating the accounting system, for which a small company would have been suspended long ago, will there be any financial or tax sanctions in the company? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-84	Thank you very much, Congressman, for the question. [[To the representatives standing between the benches:]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, please take your seats. I will wait for them to take their seats, because the person who is in place is present in the Chamber. Thank you very much for your cooperation. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The main question was whether the Government's decision in 2016 was correct. I believe it is. You know perfectly well that in waste management the collection carries the money, the use, processing, recovery, if they do well, bring the money. Before 2016, the cost of collection was covered by the population under an uncontrolled price system, with rising prices, and the benefits of processing and storage were taken away by foreign companies. This basic situation has caused: (1) the government has limited the prices of waste collection in the context of the reduction of costs; (2) it has developed a different corporate structure in order to eliminate the anomaly between collection and use. If the congressman's question is about whether this went smoothly, I must say no. No, there have been and there are disturbances in this, and I must add very quickly that this process has not yet been completed. National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd., established in 2016. basically supplies, supplies, and performs the task for which it was created. Where the contracted partners were correct in the contract system it created, the collection of waste was without disruption. I have to admit, and you are right about that, there have been contracting partners who have otherwise cut off the contract for short-term policy reasons, and as a result, a few days' delay in collecting this has otherwise occurred mainly in the area of selectively collected waste. It has also taken longer and takes us to catch up with the losses caused by IT system setting and invoicing for practical reasons at the beginning. At the same time, both the collection and the equalization of performances are ongoing, and where necessary, as you said, the government intervened, not by HUF 20.26 billion we intervened temporarily, trusting that the company will ensure recovery and invoicing in time. Finally, to your questions: the risk and responsibility of the tenderer in public procurement to issue the tender and to comply with its claim or performance. As far as I know, that wasn't the problem of the author. And to your other questions: this company, like all other entities, is controlled in a certain order, I am convinced that when it is included in the NAV programme, this company will also be monitored. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Gyula Molnár if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It would be nice to say that there were encouraging sentences in your reply, but I do not necessarily consider that to be an answer, since you have said evasive sentences on the issues that are relevant. I feel like the one-time craftsman who says I've cut it three times, and it's still short. So, ladies and gentlemen, this system is not working, and you do not realize that you are trying to operate something in a bad structure, and I think in this case you need to go back to the starting point, you have to think about it, the responsibility is yours from now on. If this system and I say it again: it is a basic public service that is collapsing, people will understand that. This is not such a simple policy as what we think about education, health care. Water, electricity, garbage is what people live in everyday life; if it doesn't work, it's a war situation. I can't accept the answer, Mr. President.
u2018-11-26-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 111 yes, 36 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, acting on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible for the subject. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-89	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Although you have your back, but look up there at the gallery, there are young men here, and answer my questions as if you were telling them and telling them the truth, and convince them that when you smuggled a convicted criminal into the country without a passport, as an illegal migrant, this is what you said was a special procedure. You speak of a failed politician who has been convicted of corruption, fleeing prison, as if he were some unprotected male egg, and this special treatment requires luxury hotels and political asylum. You don't treat refugees like humans who run from bombs. [[Péter Cseresnyés: From Bombs?!]] But they're laying red carpets for criminals. I ask you, what else will Gruevski get, what else will he get, what will the VIP-migrant of the Orbán government get, what benefits will he receive from the Hungarian taxpayers in the framework of special treatment? Where does Nikola Gruevski live? At some luxury hotel in Lőrinc the Butcher, in a castle or someplace else? How much is spent on housing, comfortable accommodation and spa placements of illegal immigrants who escaped from prison? Just imagine what you're giving him. In the so-called information campaign of recent years, you have claimed that every migrant should receive HUF 9 million of Hungarian money each. I'm asking you, Secretary of State, if you've given this 9 million forints to your favorite migrant. Did they give 9 million forints to our smuggled luxuriant? You said that's what all migrants get, and I'm just asking. [[15.40]] I am also asking whether the Macedonian inmate also received an anonymous credit card with EU public money. You're saying that this is what the migrants deserve, and that's why I'm asking if your VIP-migrant got this. We Hungarians in Europe want answers. How much of our money do you spend on hiding a fugitive criminal? Please tell me how much you spend on your education. You say that pro-immigration organisations teach refugees how to circumvent laws and what they have to say in the asylum procedure to get asylum. How much do you, as a hiding organization, spend on the fact that the prisoner you smuggled in is saying what you need to say? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-26-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-91	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is quite amazing what the DK Group, you and Mrs Ágnes Vadai are doing in this matter. [[Noise in DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I know, Congressmen, that it's part of my job description to answer here, and I have a tolerance obligation, but I would like to tell you one thing. My grandmother spent four and a half years under the Rakosi, in Rakosi's prison for political reasons, and she was the one who later, after the change of regime, always said that it was a communist tempo. That's what I was thinking. I had déjà vu. The fact that you're accusing everyone of committing a crime [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The fact that you are accusing anyone of committing a crime, or that you are threatened with prison here in Parliament, is nothing else: a communist tempo. [[Noise, interruptions in DK's ranks.]] I would be happy to inform the Member that the change of regime took place 29 years ago, and next year we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the change of regime. [[László Varju: This wasn't 29 years ago, it was just now. You should be in jail.]] So I hope, then, that it will become clear to you that that period is finally over. What many of you have already said today, several State Secretarys, these are the following. According to the legislation, the former Prime Minister of Macedonia applied at a Hungarian foreign representation. As specified in the law, he received a document ensuring entry into the Schengen area as defined by the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, and he was heard by Hungary, in Budapest, in accordance with the law, and it was the only way that the procedure could be legal, not in the transit zone, and finally received the asylum in Hungary under the conditions laid down by law. Furthermore, we cannot provide information on the circumstances of the specific case, as we have said many times, but I would like to draw attention to one thing that is that there is something in the background here. This is demonstrated by the fact that there is a final judgment in an EU Member State which refused to extradite two Macedonian citizens in a related case. So interestingly, EU courts think that there might be something behind this case. So I think that the Hungarian asylum authority also has this right. Besides, it is outrageous and amazing that in any case, you are on the side of those who come to Hungary as illegal immigrants. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You let him in!]] In all cases, they side with people who do not comply with the law [[Noise, interruptions in DK's ranks. Zsolt Gréczy: You just let the illegal immigrant in!]] try to come to the European Union through the green border. In addition, they give every political help to get as many of these people to Europe as possible and to get as many of them to Hungary as possible. I think this is outrageous and, moreover, the opinion of Hungarian voters is very clear in this regard, which is why there is such a difference between the number of party factions and your number of factions. [[Noise, interruptions in DK's ranks.]] Besides, I owe you this: Nikola Gruevski's rights are and are subject to the rights and obligations set out in the Asylum Act, just as everyone whose asylum application has been accepted by the Hungarian authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-92	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, before I give the floor, I am not surprised that you have been yelled at all this time, but what Mr. Balázs Orbán said about his grandmother, which I think is a very painful and very distressing thing, you have been laughing all along, is unacceptable to me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: We weren't laughing!]] I now give you the floor, Congressman, if you will accept the answer.
u2018-11-26-93	Dear Secretary of State, Today you're taking advantage of a list of your interests in Gruevski being here. They are voting with this, the capitalists behind it, as your secretary of state said, are being sweetened and, by the way, they are giving political help to a criminal, a migrant whom you welcome. But by the way, you didn't answer the question. You, who told me that you gave him 9 million forints, did you or did you not? Answer the question. And since you have not given me an answer, I do not accept it, which is why we are asking the State Audit Office for an extraordinary and immediate inquiry into how much it cost you and the Hungarian taxpayers to hide criminals and let them into Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's right! Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-26-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the House whether it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP Group, has provided an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:, When will the government withdraw from the Paks expansion? It's an address. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-95	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hope that this issue does not trigger a temper of the kind that we have just had. This is an extremely important issue, the most expensive project in Hungary. The government has also made it clear or the government has already made it clear that the Paks enlargement will not be implemented by the deadline agreed in the contract, i.e. by this deadline of 2025-26. So this is already acknowledged by the government. The competent minister, Minister Süli, also said in Parliament that they are seeking to build the blocks as soon as possible, but they cannot guarantee that it will be ready in time. He also said, Minister, that the reference Russian nuclear power station blocks cannot be built under one domestic condition, so these plans should be adapted on the basis of Hungarian technical standards and EU standards. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2014 the LMP already drew attention to these problems when concluding the Orbán-Putin pact, and then the Hungarian Government replied that everything was really thought through, everything was properly prepared, and that the Union agreed on everything. And then they also explained as a reason that the Russians had to be entrusted practically without competition, because in the case of Paks, enlargement could not be solved by anyone else. It could now be revealed to all Hungarians that in many respects you have not told the Hungarian people the truth about the most expensive project in Hungary. First of all, it must be pointed out that it is not true that the Rosatom, alone, or even the Rosatom, is capable of achieving these certain improvements, because it is clear that the authorisation should have taken place already and has not happened so far. Once again, we know from the Minister that so far, the Rosatom has not been able to present plans that comply with EU standards. It is also clear that the claim that a certain loan has been granted and that it can be paid from this particular electricity produced is not justified either, since the repayment has to start as early as March 2026 and that if this particular slippage takes place, this claim will prove to be false. Nor is it true, as you said, that the government's calculation includes a price of EUR 55 as a cost per megawattor. From several sources, from several independent sources, we can know calculations that say that even the price of EUR 120 seems to be an optimistic estimate. Nor was it true that the water of the Danube would be sufficient to cool old and new blocks, since unfortunately it has been proven that, even in the present case, it is causing problems during a low water level. The question is, since it may be clear to all Hungarian citizens that this project will not be able to operate in a profitable way, whether the government is ready to withdraw this project, this billion-dollar project, to withdraw from this project, or to continue to pour huge sums into the bottomless well. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2018-11-26-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Attila Aszódi, State Secretary, responds to his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.50]]
u2018-11-26-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start by saying that Hungary imports more than 30% of electricity today. This high import rate represents an extremely high security of supply risk, and as surprising as it may be, it is the government's responsibility and responsibility to ensure security of supply under the Electricity Act, so the government must act in such a way that consumers are constantly supplied with electricity. What we are doing today is in line with the 2011 energy policy and is fully in line with the 2014 II energy policy. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). by law on the implementation of the Paks II project. Today there are about 140,000 megawatts of large power plants in Central Europe, 24 percent of which are old coal plants over 40 years of age. These coal power plants in Central Europe are untimely, old coal power plants, they will stop in the next period, and if we do not build new power plants, then the security of supply tasks, which, once again, are passed on to the government by the law, could not be fulfilled. It is therefore a fundamental need to build new power plants and to maintain the capacity of the nuclear power plant in Hungary in the long term. With regard to technical requirements, I would like to inform you that the nuclear law says that, when nuclear power is applied, safety has priority over all aspects, and that we must act in such a way that we can meet the requirement of the nuclear law, otherwise derived from international standards. In order to act in line with this, we have built up a contractual system for the implementation of the Paks II project, where the nuclear safety requirements have been incorporated into the implementation contract, in accordance with the state-of-the-art EU standards. So for the main contractor, it is quite clear to all parties from the very first moment that the project must be implemented in accordance with Hungarian and European Union legislation, in accordance with the state-of-the-art nuclear safety standards, there is nothing new in this respect. It is natural for a person to bring such technology into the territory of the European Union to comply with the requirements here. The main contractor has been working on this from the very first moment. With regard to the selection of the main contractor, you should know that the European Commission has examined this issue and agreed with us, confirmed that Hungary had the right to choose the technology supplier directly, given the technological exclusivity, in view of our requirements. Moreover, two thirds of the new nuclear power plant projects in Europe were not selected as standard tenders, so other countries also applied the principle of technological exclusivity to nuclear power plants projects. The European Commission has also examined six different issues concerning the Paks II project. He found that it would be economical, that it would pay back, that the costs would be around EUR 50-55, that the electricity market would be able to sell electricity for this power plant, that the state would be able to repay this investment. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and the fixed-price framework contract provides us with all the conditions for this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the Head of the Group if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-11-26-99	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, I regret, in some respects, that Minister Süli cannot be present, because I would also like to hear his reply on the fact that he bears special personal responsibility for this extremely important project. We are talking about many thousands of billions of projects, which could be indebted to generations in Hungary. Mr Secretary of State has made statements, but has not answered any questions; I have asked four specific questions, questions and issues that have been confirmed by professionals. I have not received any answers to these four questions from the Secretary of State. I would ask a fifth question quickly: how and how would you like to resolve the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, such as spent fuel and other waste? We know that, and we have talked about this many times, that in this respect, and so in the preparation of the nuclear cemetery, a politically harmful and irresponsible project has been launched, which does not offer a solution. Now that I have not received answers to four questions in these extremely serious cases, I cannot, of course, accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Fraction Manager didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:, Is it necessary to renegotiate the treaty with the Russians relating to the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2018-11-26-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, a letter about Paks II was published, written by Imre Martha, former director of the Hungarian Electricity Works, who could not be accused of anti-nuclear activity at all. Imre Martha raised the same arguments regarding the investment in Paks that the Dialogue has already made several times here in Parliament. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would therefore argue here and now not whether nuclear power is good or not safe or not, but whether Paks II investment is worth it to Hungary and the Hungarian people. According to the former director, the biggest problem with Paks II is that the contract signed with the Russians is extremely negative for Hungary, and the licensing is bad. In the context of EU law, the Russians have not yet built a nuclear power plant, they cannot keep EU standards in the case of a power plant built in Finland, but according to the contract, the Hungarian party will cost extra money if production has to be redesigned according to the EU standard. It turns out that the Danube is not suitable for cooling two power plants, and thanks to climate change, Paks II. Cooling is not solved; cooling can only be secured by cooling towers, which would increase the cost of 4,000 billion already by 10-15 percent. Question is, it's Paks II. Its construction is worth it. Paks II is not supported by the majority of Hungarian society. According to Medián's latest poll, the majority still do not sympathise with the investment, the Russian loan is not supported by two thirds of Hungarian society. I'm sure they have their own research, because if they had one, the faucet would also have Paks II. It's worth it. It is planned that the production price would be between EUR 100 and EUR 120 per megawattor, but at present the same price is between EUR 50 and EUR 60. To make Paks II. It is worth it, these prices should double, which is difficult to imagine in addition to the development of renewable energy and energy storage. New international analyses should be carried out, but this would probably result in Paks II. It's not worth it. My questions are therefore; lastly, the Minister said that the government is planning to renegotiate borrowing with the Russians. I'd like to ask what's going on in this case. Do you think that the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can continue to be maintained on the basis of the current plans? What do you think of Paks' 1st lifetime being extended by another 10 years to 2040, thus triggering Paks II investment? I'm asking you to answer the question of what you're going to do with the fuel. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition's benches.]]
u2018-11-26-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Attila Aszódi, State Secretary, I would like to ask you to answer Mr. Congressman's reply. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-103	Thank you very much. Congressman! The thing is, there's no new under the sun, no new elements in your questions, no new ones in the questions you've been asking. We have talked a great deal about these issues in recent years, and not only have we talked about them, but these debates and discussions have been the basis of official procedures, and the European Commission has also examined these matters in detail. Let me start with the economy. You, others, have criticised this project. We have demonstrated that this project is economically feasible, that the producer price around the above mentioned EUR 55 per megawattor is expected for the new blocks, and we have also demonstrated that, as a result of the above-mentioned changes in the electricity market, wholesale prices are expected on the regional market, which clearly demonstrates the return of the project. [[16.00]] These debates have now been closed, since the European Commission has considered both our position and the positions of its opponents. Furthermore, the European Commission has done a lot of own calculations, simulating twice ten thousand different scenarios, and in its analysis the Commission has received that the expected return rate for the project is 7,35 per cent per year. This is the internal rate of return on the project. This clearly shows that the project is profitable, bringing back all the capital invested, all the costs, including waste management, fuel, operation, maintenance. So don't doubt, we're doing just fine in terms of economics. As I said in the previous answer, it is clear that the Hungarian and EU safety standards must be met by the power plant, we ordered such a power plant, such a power plant will be built. It is also very important to emphasise that, for reasons of security of supply, energy policy and climate protection, it is extremely important that the project is implemented. The project will save large amounts of CO2 emissions, so you green politicians should support the new blocks most, because neither in Europe nor in Hungary can the climate protection objectives be met without nuclear power. The contractual framework for the project is a fixed-price, very forward-looking framework with strict requirements, which fully meets the interests of the Hungarian party, and fully protects these Hungarian interests. This contractual framework is appropriate, including interstate contracts, so that the renegotiation of these contracts against your claim is not necessary. With regard to the Danube, I can say that there is enough cooling water in the Danube, fresh water cooling can be solved in the same way as in the current blocks. In those hot summer periods, which may be restrictive, there will be additional cooling facilities in the power plant that will ensure the operation of the power plant during these periods. In relation to waste management, we will clearly act in accordance with national policy and the national programme, including EU standards. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-105	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Of the four questions, he has actually answered one question: do you think that the expansion of the nuclear power plant can continue as planned? I'm sorry to hear you say yes, but what you're saying is that all this investment is expensive, and I don't see how this EUR 50-60 price will come out when the lowest estimates say EUR 100-120. Last time, János Süli said that the loan agreement would be renegotiated. So this is not going to happen now, which is also very dangerous, because we have to start repaying this loan in 2026. He didn't give his opinion on whether the extension of 2040 in the case of Paks I might not be able to replace Paks II. So, unfortunately, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you.
u2018-11-26-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 yes, 36 votes not, without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: Why do the Balliberals want to deceive people again? It's an address. [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition.]] Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 17 November Viktor Orbán and Mayor István Tarlós signed a historic agreement [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] For the further development of Budapest. Thanks to this cooperation, more than a thousand billion HUF can be developed across Budapest. All Hungarians with good feelings are delighted to be announced, as Budapest is the capital of the nation, so the success of the city also means the success of the Hungarians as a whole. [[It's constant noise. Gergely Harvester:]] The left did not lie to himself now, learning nothing from the result of politics against people, once again, in the hope of cheap political gain, they faced a decision that was supported by the country's population, of course, in the usual lie and misleading style. The picantria of the case is that the representatives of parties raise their voices against the expected developments that have completely looted Budapest. A hundred billion dollars of debt were accumulated while they were filling each other's pockets with busy salaries and severance payments. The socialist-liberal city administration has accumulated scandals with public procurement irregularities committed by its masses, useless studies ordered for large amounts and prosecutions directed by their cadres against several public services. One of the ectant examples of the operation of the Demszky-Hagyó era is the corruption scandal of tens of billions in connection with the construction of Metro 4 by OLAF or the state of the BKV at the time. In 2010, István Tarlós took control of the capital city on the edge of the abyss, which ended one of the deepest and darkest periods of Budapest's life, marked by nokis boxes. Thanks to the new city management, the state of Budapest's public squares, transport, public safety and tourist perceptions are developing to an unprecedented extent. The Fidesz-KDNP government freed Budapest from HUF 218 billion in debt, while the MSZP-SZDSZ governments actually abandoned the Hungarians. Socialists have been sword-sworded, shot at head height, and now they're teaching us the rule of law. They provided counterfeit economic data to the EU, but now they want to tell us how to serve Brussels. In 20 years, Budapest has been completely looted, but now they, you fear for the capital. In view of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State why the Balliberians want to deceive people again. Of course, if we weren't here, that would be a rhetorical question. [[Pointing to the benches of Adam Mirkóczki, MSZP and DK: Why don't you ask them? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, responds to his interpellation question. [[Gergely Harvesto: Keep it steady!]] Here you go.
u2018-11-26-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Budapest is now at the door of an unprecedented development [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We can see that it is!]] CHAPTER XXI For the next decades of the century, we owe it to the city's most successful era ever. Our goal is to make Budapest one of the three best European cities by 2030. This is underpinned by developments in the last eight years. Just listing and simply taking out one or two examples: Liszt Academy, Restoration of Pesti Vigadó, Erzsébet tér Cultural Center and Park, House of Sors, University campus, Ludovika, Liget Project, Moholy-Nagy Art University, Danube Arena, Swimming pool renovations [[Big noise, interrogations from the opposition benches, including the Danube Arena?]] Gül Baba's turbe and renovation of the surrounding part of town [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Kossuth Square, road renovations of the inner districts and rehabilitation of the outer city centers. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Tell me something your buddy didn't build.]] But I won't continue the line. The only reason I wanted to recommend this list to your attention is because it proves that when we make this statement that we want Budapest to be among the three best cities in Europe, we are not talking in the air. The conditions for success are given. Budapest is developing, the results are tangible. This is also thanks to the cooperation between the city administration and the government, led by Mayor István Tarlós. This work was confirmed by the agreement signed by the Member on 17 November, which established the Council for Public Development in Budapest. All of this is an organization operating on a parley basis, a body with veto rights, which can be a worthy successor to the executor of the Millennium Urban Developments, bearing a similar name, which, by the way, owes us the first golden age of Budapest. In order to take advantage of this historic opportunity, we need a so-called master plan, a ten-year development strategy. [[16.10]] This development plan, which the government and the capital will prepare together by the end of 2019, is not only the internal affairs of the city and the government, but we believe that such a plan is not just a matter of community planning. This process is the Budapest Dialogue, in which the Budapesters and the urban, civil and real civil professional communities dealing with Budapest can participate, in the project of how we can work together to make Budapest a success. All of this can be strongly and clearly contrasted with the previous period before 2010, which we can call the most wasted decades, the decade of investments that have not been carried out, and perhaps this is the other indicator that could be applied to the previous decades of Budapest. The development of transport is particularly important, and that is why we believe that, in order to improve public transport for passengers, we agree with the Mayor, and he strongly asked the Government to complete the renewal of the HÉV lines, to establish the metro connection of the southern HÉVs, and to better connect the suburban railway to the public transport in Budapest. This is complemented by a road renewal programme that aims to achieve the potential of car transport. The government is open to the Mayor's proposals and has started making the necessary decisions, which are necessary to make these decisions a reality as soon as possible and to make them investments made, from the previous investments I have listed. And to do so, he would like to ask the government to support the current administration and the government by its citizens and by the people of Budapest. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László Böröcz if he accepts the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since Gábor Demszky can be found on the streets of Budapest without any kind of control and comment in this form, we can have some picture of how the socialist-liberal leadership could have worked between 1990 and 2010 and why nothing happened between 1990 and 2010 in the capital. [[Gergely Arató: Demszky won five times.]] Thank you very much for your reply, Mr State Secretary, and of course I accept it. Cooperation between the government and the capital can be exemplary and the future of Budapest is of paramount importance for the future of the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "It is not just the number of people that depends on the protection of the country! It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-26-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Keep an eye on Ukraine. In the last few hours, laughter, hooting and all sorts of things have been said in this House that I would not think of on a day when there is a war situation in our neighbourhood, where our Transcarpathian compatriots may be called in as soldiers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we, as Members of Parliament, must deal primarily with this. And I dared to bring that up because my subject, interpellation, is related to this kind of thing. Since the establishment of the new Parliament, we have discussed the legal status of defence employees, the establishment of a new organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office and the number of Hungarian Defence Forces on the basis of the presentation of the Ministry of Defence. The authorised increase in the number of people in these areas, without even reaching the existing level in 2013, included the introduction of a new emergency, a defence emergency. The proposal also included the establishment of an international military command, and all the issues that were thought to be resolved with an organizational system and a number of people. The budget law contains a significantly higher amount of funding for defence for the following year, which may be positive, although we have serious doubts that some part of the budget in procurement may not be in the pocket of someone's pocket as a result of overpriced expenditure. You know, Mr. Secretary, we know that any organisation's problem is solved not primarily by the organisation's structure, but by the collective work of committed people based on professional foundations. However, despite the formality of defence, despite the resources that serve to protect the country, the work of all the excellent people who are trying to develop and maintain the capabilities either in NATO's organizational system or in domestic conditions, if the government's policy goes completely against the need to protect our country from as little atrocities, problems and international conflicts in international space. It is also the difficulty of protecting the country when it isolates the country by working in an international political life and in domestic relations, it is the wrath of countries with whom its relations have been relatively balanced for many decades. If a government violates the written and unwritten Community rules, the basic conditions for peaceful coexistence of peoples, it will be in vain to spend any amount of money to protect the country, no matter how many tens of thousands of people are integrated into this system, and even to make a society binding if it creates relations between which it cannot protect its country from the wrath of other countries. Today, it is not the number of arms and on-walk soldiers that protect a country from international conflicts, not the conditions that make life difficult for the citizens of that country, but economic, humanitarian, moral isolation and rejection with which the atmosphere that they create is suffocating for the citizens of the country. My question to you, Mr Secretary of State: do you not think that you can protect the citizens of our country much more effectively if you protect the citizens of our country from any international conflict? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would also like to start with what you started your speech, which we did not know yet, by the way, when you wrote it in writing: the question of Ukraine. I fully agree with you, it is extremely serious what is happening in our neighbourhood, and that is perhaps the most important thing that we are talking about here today in this House. The very bad news is that there will be a state of war in our neighbourhood, with 150,000 Hungarians living here. Minister Szijjártó has also spoken about this today, and has also decreed that we are in daily contact with President Brenzovich, if necessary, several times a day, so in a continuous relationship, and we trust that, although the signs themselves are not very encouraging, we hope that the situation will not, at least, escalate and move towards settlement. Now, honourable Member, we agree on that. The other part, which I cannot agree with, in his speech he also mentioned defence and foreign affairs issues, is my answer, and I owe you a confession that I spent a lot of time speaking this weekend. Yeah, yeah, I've been reading, reading, reading, I don't want to say that in the morning, at noon and at night, with the regularity of a Gyurcsányi lie, but a lot, and I didn't quite understand where he was going to run, but I don't question his good intentions. The point is, don't worry that we want to storm the whole world as a ten million-dollar country. I've been working for the Secretary of State for four years, and he's never told me to get my coat on, so let's go storm the world. However, he has often said that we give respect to everyone, but we expect respect in our diplomatic work, the respect that can be expected for a country with a thousand years of statehood. We are not looking for conflicts, but we are not jumping away from conflicts in any case. And in particular, we will not jump away from conflicts if we are right, Madam honourable Member and honourable House, and such a conflict resolution is, for example, a conflict resolution on illegal immigration. Why not take the debates when we are right and I will tell you, Madam Congresswoman, quite frankly, although we agreed on Ukraine's point of view that I am a little surprised when Jobbik became such a coward on the issue of conflict and I am living with the suspicion that it started somewhere around the House of Spinoza. As far as diplomatic isolation is concerned, we are not in diplomatic isolation, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a short time ago Prime Minister has been through a diplomatic record period, and the leaders of the world, the number one leaders, consider the opinion of the Hungarian Prime Minister to be heard and, of course, this is not a coincidence, and if someone looks at the Foreign Minister's calendar, it can also be seen that we are not in any kind of isolation. I'm quite sure I can tell you that, and I have an office across the street from him, but I rarely see him, too. So we are neither isolated nor have any such problems. [[16.20]] And I would like to say that I am already hearing from the honourable right-wing Members, and I still have time to respond to these speeches about my person who would like to help me get back to my work on television. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a reverse point, your fallen party leaders tend to try amateur Internet television. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] So the arc point is reversed. I confess to you that I have watched some of Gábor Vona's videos and even to enhance it, after which I also watched some of Ferenc Gyurcsány's videos. [[A lot of noise, a lot of clarity, a lot of interruptions.]] And I have to say that the competition is very sharp for the country's biggest slutty title. [[Defiance.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea has the floor. Congresswoman, do you accept the answer?
u2018-11-26-117	I'm in a very difficult situation because I'd accept one half of the answer, but I don't know the other half. It's rare for a congressman to be in a situation like this. We have heard that we are in contact with Ukrainian organisations and representatives of Transcarpathian Hungarians every minute about the conflict in Ukraine. I cannot accept the other part of the answer because I believe that most of the Members of this House have been sitting here for the last eight years and that we have had to listen to quite a lot of problems arising from international conflicts which, whether we like it or not, have changed the view of our country in a very negative direction. I am thinking here, for example, of agreements signed in Brussels and then, at home, of their disapproval that we did not want to do so. We fight with everyone, we go against everyone, we ask for a world quota at the UN General Assembly, and then we come home, and we say that we have never said that, and we are suing everyone, and then we are helping criminals who have been convicted through many countries across borders. On this basis, I think that I cannot accept the answer now. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Head of the Group Márton Gyöngyösi and MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power abuse all our patience? It's an address. I'm asking you who's going to ask the question. [[On Tamás Sneider's mark:]] Yes, I give the floor to Vice President Tamás Sneider. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-119	Dear House, Mr President, Prime Minister! Christian Wulff, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, resigned his high position in 2012, because he accepted gift flights, and in return he made some arrangements for these people. A few weeks ago, the United Nations ambassador's woman resigned from her high position, even though she published in her wealth declaration the gifts she received from her various friends. In democracies all over the world, it is natural for public figures who accept such gifts to give up their position. There are these very important people and there are you, Prime Minister. They took the consequences fairly and gave up their position, while you pride yourself on taking flights from wealthy entrepreneurs 30 years ago, though hidden, but constantly. Your pride, however, is a nuance that has not been included in your wealth accounts so far. And most recently, he's already trying to recruit people who have been convicted of corruption in their own country. Prime Minister! Don't you feel for a moment that with these activities, you are not only defrauding yourself, but our entire country, our entire nation? I ask Prime Minister, do you maintain your claim that you are proud of your covert private flight for 30 years? Do you maintain that you continue to accept the gift of the billionaires who serve you illegally? Finally, do you wish to place another public figure convicted of corruption in our country? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-120	Thank you. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-121	Thank you very much. As far as I know, the suggestion on your question has been discussed by the Committee on the Protection of the Hungarian Parliament, and it has made a decision, and I will submit to that decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Vice President Tamás Sneider. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-123	That was a brave answer, Prime Minister, I'll give you that. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Eight years ago, you proved that the rate of corruption is directly proportional to the destruction of a country. While the corrupt system has consumed our economic potential, we have come to the conclusion that we no longer have to catch up with Western Europe, but Romania, which has evolved four times faster in the last 18 years. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Romanian citizens were enriched four times faster than Hungarian citizens [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Look at the statistics, my fellow Members. Indeed, those who fly over the plane are only maps of this landscape, and above the clouds it is right to think that Hungarians can be worked to the death. You have the right to think, Prime Minister, that it is necessary to have Hungarian workers worked for 14 months a year, and you have the right to feel that you can do so until there is no serious social impact on this story. And you can seriously think that you can upload tens and hundreds of thousands of missing Hungarians. Prime Minister, if the Hungarians change their minds and do not wish to work themselves to death, where will you fly to? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-124	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About Hungary on the brink of destruction, I would just like to tell you that the minimum wage in 2010 was 73 500 forints, while in 2018 it was 138 thousand forints. The minimum wage was 89,500 forints, now 180,500 forints. The net income in 2010 was 133 thousand forints, and in September 2018 216,000 forints. Since 2010, real wages have increased by more than 36 percent; the income of a parent with a two-year average income is worth 45 percent more than in 2010. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-126	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the Gruevski scandal, the scandal where the Macedonian ex-Prime Minister, who was sentenced to two years in prison in his country for corruption, was quickly adopted by the Hungarian government. In this regard, according to a recent survey, the Hungarian people said the following things: shock, anger and disappointment, what they feel about the Hungarian government's actions, and this is not divided by all the crap that the State Secretarys have said in Parliament in the last two weeks. Therefore, I am asking you specifically which theory is true, Prime Minister. One of the assumptions is that, at the request of Moscow, the State Department handled it, the Prime Minister didn't know anything about this case. The other option was the Prime Minister's decision, the Prime Minister's personal decision and request to send his former Moscow-friendly fellow warrior to Hungary. That it couldn't be done without a government decision, that's the fact that it's clear as day. Foreign and perhaps secret service employees, employees, Hungarian diplomats gave and bought Hungarian diplomatic cars across several countries. So the question is, who made this decision, the Secretary of State or you. My second question, Prime Minister, is that according to the information available on kormany.hu between 2014 and 2018, the Hungarian Government, including you, has stated 21 times that it supports Macedonia's membership of the EU and NATO, recognising the progress of its government and recognising that Macedonia is an acceptable partner country for Hungary in this regard. [[16.30]] In the light of the Gruevski decision, I ask the Prime Minister whether the Hungarian Government maintains its support for Macedonia's EU and NATO accession aspirations. Please, and I look forward to your reply.
u2018-11-26-128	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-129	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, The Hungarian authorities acted in accordance with the rules. Macedonia is and will remain an ally of Hungary. We support Macedonia's NATO and EU membership. We are grateful to Macedonia because it played an important role in stopping migrants, the government of Macedonia closed the route and built a fence. The Macedonian government and its head, Mr. Gruevski, were attacked in choir, in international choir, under the leadership of the Soros world network. Macedonia was under the same pressure as Hungary to let migrants in, but Macedonia held out, and thus helped Hungary to defend ourselves. Thank you for that. As for the current Macedonian situation, who is watching, you can see that political games are taking place there, and justice is also involved in these games. Hungary will not interfere in these games, nor will it give an opinion on them. However, we do one thing, we have done this in the past for other countries, and we will continue to do this in the future: we will ensure fair trial for everyone in Hungary, we cannot give impunity to anyone, but we can give a fair trial. In this case, this meant a fair asylum procedure. Hungary's allies can count on Hungary everywhere, but especially in the Balkans. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-130	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó.
u2018-11-26-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! It's an interesting ally to help a citizen escape a final court judgment. He says he won't interfere with Macedonian justice. You did, Prime Minister, by making that decision. He said it was good because the Macedonian government built a lot of fences. So you didn't necessarily build these fences in the right direction, because somehow this man got here. The fact that they obey all the rules, Prime Minister, that is not true, you know that; you are a lawyer, your signature is listed in 191/2015. a government decree declaring Macedonia a safe country of origin, a safe third country for Serbia and Montenegro. Thus, the Hungarian Foreign Office's colleagues have brought this man here through countries that Gruevski should prove to be politically persecuted there. I didn't know that this man was being persecuted in Serbia. I didn't know that this man was being persecuted in Montenegro. Obviously, they've made an illegal decision. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-26-132	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-133	I would like to inform the Member that the asylum procedure in Hungary is not conducted by the government, and there is a separate authority. It acts according to the rules applicable to it, all asylum decisions in Hungary are free from political influence [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] is based solely on legal considerations. [[The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Ágnes Vadai and Mr Gergely Arató, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you think that? It's an address. The question is raised by Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-135	Thank you. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Today's Hungary seems to be the first country in the history of the world to have a human smuggler as its prime minister. It is not enough that the former Macedonian Prime Minister, who was sentenced to two years in prison because of the abuse of office, crossed the Hungarian border without a passport, as an illegal migrant, it is not enough that he did not end up in the transit zone, like everyone else, but came straight to Budapest without all due diligence and control. Since then, the international press has revealed in detail that the Hungarian government's foreign representatives have smuggled the convicted criminal into Hungary, as in a James Bond movie, only in Eastern European implementation, with large government faces. Here we are, Prime Minister: the people of your government have smuggled illegal migrants into Hungary. You're the head of the world's first smuggling government. Now, Prime Minister, tell us a little about illegal migration, as you know the perpetrator side. Was George Soros assigned to be a smuggler or for any other reason? Is it possible that Soros doesn't have anything to do with this, but that ex-ministers fleeing prison pay a lot for their freedom? Please tell us, how did the Prime Minister who was fleeing his own people pay, after all, are you sure that he has memorized the exchange rate for life? How much can you ask for at a time like this? Would you pay as much as Gruevski paid? Or is this not about money? Did Master Putin order you to accept his Macedonian wingman? Is that it? Do you know where you will be sent if the ground slips out of the system and there will be independent justice in Hungary again? So I ask Mr. Prime Minister, why do you put your head on something like this, and why do you think that you are allowed to support illegal migration and smuggling people? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-26-136	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to reiterate that the Hungarian authorities have acted properly in this case, as in all other similar cases, within the framework of the legislation, and will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-138	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I have information that Congressman Gergely Arató will have the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-139	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, It is very unfortunate that you have lost your courage since Friday, and now you don't dare call Mr. Gruevski your ally. You don't dare say that you came here because you were Prime Minister for ten years. You dare not say that this refuge is for your political services to your former ally, ex-collaborate and perhaps to your current business partner. I must say, Prime Minister, that we would expect a little more courage. Stand up and tell us why your government was involved in the escape of a convicted criminal to Hungary, why your Ministry of Foreign Affairs and perhaps other organizations organized it. And why did the asylum authority, supervised by the Hungarian government, clearly give it asylum in violation of asylum laws? And finally, Prime Minister, I also suggest that you go to the register and pay the illegal immigration special tax on behalf of the government as an immigration support organisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-26-140	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to be more clear then. I reject the allegations and accusations which accuse any organization, any body and any official of the Hungarian State of committing lawlessness. It's simply not true, you're not telling the truth, you're actually lying. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the people here in Parliament are attacking the government, who have always been on the side of immigration. The fact is that you do not like the fair procedures provided to the Macedonian Prime Minister to help prevent immigration, but Ahmed H. is happy to provide legal assistance through their former Minister of Justice. That's the truth and straight talk. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what is not there? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder.
u2018-11-26-143	I'd like to wait for Minister if there's a chance.
u2018-11-26-144	Thank you very much. He'll wait for Minister. Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[Antal Csárdi stands up.]] All we have to do is get it out of the script. I knew it was Congressman Csárdi's turn. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will the Hungarian legislation bring justice to three and a half million people? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-145	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, The foreign exchange credit crisis, I think, has been going on in front of us for many years. We also know that more than a million families are affected by this problem, and unfortunately, we all have to have the experience that, indeed, when these families took on, many of you, these loans, the banks, in a subtle way, did not provide sufficient information for the responsible decision. [[16.40]] The result is that today about 3 to 3.5 million people live in living conditions that are unacceptable in Hungary in 2018, in the year of families. I believe that I believe that in this House, we all feel responsible on the pro-government and opposition side for those who have been tricked by the banks, who have not been sufficiently informed by the banks and who need to bring the Hungarian legislation to justice. On 20 September 2018, the European Court of Justice ruled on this, and since the year 2018 was the year of families, the LMP developed a debt-saving package that the budget can carry, the banking system can bear, and the principle of social justice is also reflected in it. Mr. Prime Minister, I respectfully ask whether the government is planning to help foreign exchange lenders who are known to be victims of bank profits, and I am talking not only about debtors who have been delayed, but also about all debtors who have borrowed foreign currency loans. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , who was cheated today by unfair information or lack of information. Half a second, please, Mr. President. I would also like to ask with great respect whether you maintain the statement by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén that you, or through you, the Government, are willing to negotiate a rescue package drawn up by LMP. [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2018-11-26-146	Mr. Congressman, I'm sorry, you've moved on by 30 seconds, so I understand you didn't fit in, but the substance has been said. I would like to ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
u2018-11-26-147	Thank you very much for asking. As far as the roots of the case are concerned, you are in an easy position, because you only have to come forward one or two lines to ask the former Prime Minister how this currency-credited trap came about. After all, this was caused by the socialists, and the result of their decision was that when foreign currency lending was opened up, the share of foreign currency loans increased more than 100 times, while no meaningful steps were taken to remedy the consequences. What I can give you as an answer to your question is that no one, myself or foreign exchange credit, can make it undone, and we can help you with medicine. So far, here's what we've done. With the HUF, we closed the era of foreign exchange lending, and the exposure of households to exchange rate risks virtually ceased, and we helped seven, or seven hundred thousand families. We've introduced the price barrier. With the exchange barrier, we helped 186 thousand families. We've brought in the final payment, helping 170,000 families. With the establishment of the National Asset Manager, we have saved 36,000 families from trouble, and now we are creating a law or we would like you to create a law on our initiative so that those who have been cut off by banks can now buy their homes back from the asset manager. In the context of bank accountability, due to the lack of an unfair exchange rate gap and unilateral contractual amendments, all contracts have been revised. This reduced the payments by 30 percent and the families were freed from a total burden of HUF 1000 billion. That's all we could do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I believe everything you say with great decency. However, this is a national minimum, and believe me, the current debtors and not just those who are in default are no longer interested in who did it, how he did it, why he did it. One thing he cares about is that there's a scam that the banks made, and it's necessary to help legislate. I repeat, the LMP has developed a programme, and we know very well that this cannot be done without you, by the will of the electorate. I therefore maintain my question with due respect: Prime Minister, will the members of the government sit down or sit down with the LMP to find a common solution to the rescue of people who have drifted into the foreign exchange credit crisis? Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-151	I urge you in this regard, the various committees are here in Parliament to discuss these issues. The government will be represented in these discussions. With all due respect, I must remind you, in particular, that you have used the national minimum term, that your party here in Parliament has not helped us in the decisions we have taken to remedy the situation. Your party has not voted in favour of the establishment of the National Asset Manager, has not voted in favour of the final repayment, has not voted in favour of the introduction of the CSOK. In fact, your former co-chair also said that the construction of new homes would not be financed with the benefit of family housing. In addition, there is also a property tax in your programme, which you would like to introduce as a uniform and mandatory value-based property tax. That's still part of the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-152	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, the leader of the Dialogue Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. I'll give you the floor.
u2018-11-26-153	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, you treat your allies with decency, you said in a radio interview last week about Gruevski, and you often say that we Hungarians can decide who we want to live with. Let's take a look at who you've wanted to live with in Hungary over the past few years. Ghaith Rashad Pharaon is a Saudi businessman who bought the old post office from your son-in-law, István Tiborcz. Pharaon was wanted by Interpol for 25 years, suspected of money laundering and corruption in America. You stated that Pharaon does not pose a national security risk in Hungary. Zaid Naffa, Jordan's honorary consul, failed the Hungarian terrorist light; a terrorist, a good friend of Pharaon, with whom István Tiborcz was also photographed during coffee. Then Atiya Khoury, who is on the United States sanction list, the Americans say he is one of Bassar el-Asad's bloody Syrian dictators. Antal Rogán received Hungarian papers thanks to his residency bond program. Finally, Ramil Safarov is an ax murderer from Azerbaijan who killed his sleeping Armenian fellow soldier. You released Safarov to Azerbaijan by knowing precisely that you would be released immediately in your country. And now we have Nikola Gruevski, sentenced to two years in prison in his country for not petty things, including the fraud of a EUR 500 million public procurement and tens of thousands of illegal wiretaps. Tell me, Prime Minister, why are you allies with terrorists, criminals, thieves, Azeri ax murderers? ! Why do you want to live with them? Prime Minister, aren't you ashamed that Hungary has been dumped by criminals and terrorists? ! I would also ask you always say that the sovereignty of a state is the most important. You're interfering with Macedonia's sovereignty by refusing to release a convicted felon there. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] while they were asking for his extradition. Then why are you interfering with the sovereignty of another state, the internal affairs of another state? Thank you.
u2018-11-26-154	Mr. Prime Minister, please respond. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-155	I'm out of line, Mr. President. Sometimes it's when someone comes in; sometimes it's when they go home. You can't really figure that out. I would just like to say that, as far as the extradition request is concerned, we are in Parliament, and you know that the extradition procedure will be conducted by the Hungarian courts. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-156	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2018-11-26-157	Prime Minister, shame on you. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] We keep asking questions, asking specific questions, and you're here smiling, pulling your shoulders, answering the big stinky nothing in one sentence. That wasn't an answer to the question: why are you supporting terrorists, why are you officially, legally, convicted, corrupt criminals? I understand you've lost track. We can clearly see that you've lost track of the whole Gruevski case. Because he couldn't give me a reasonable answer to that question. For example, you can't tell if you knew that Gruevski was coming to Hungary. Have you personally been asked whether Gruevski wants to arrive in Hungary, or whether Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér has made a direct decision on this matter? The Hungarian papers could not even be transferred to the HAC as quickly as he had received the asylum procedure. There's always a lot of bullshit, lying, making Hungary a paradise for terrorists. Shame on you, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-26-158	I think she's a little emotional. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches: Not a little. Timea Szabó: He didn't take me, the Hungarian people.]] I will ask the Prime Minister if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On Viktor Orván's signal:]] Here you go.
u2018-11-26-159	I'm sorry that you're not satisfied with the answer I'm going to give you eighty-six times this afternoon. There are laws in Hungary. These laws apply to everyone, including the Hungarian authorities. And the Hungarian authorities acted according to Hungarian legislation in all respects. [[A voice from the benches of Fidesz: That's right! Szabó Timea: No!]] I repeat once again: my answer to your question is that the Hungarian authorities... Yes, I understand that you can ask me, but that means that I can answer. I don't have to answer what you want to hear, I have to answer what I think. [[Szabó Timea: No, the truth!]] So here's the thing. [[Laughing:]] This is what it looks like. The Hungarian authorities acted within the framework of the legislation and in accordance with the rules. As far as terrorists are concerned, I'm surprised to hear that there are terrorists in a country committing acts of terrorism. [[Szabó Timea: How do you know?]] And those who allow terrorists to enter the country are those who carry out terrorist acts. I would like to point out that you, as a pro-immigration party, are constantly arguing for the admission of migrants, with whom terrorists have arrived in Europe, when you support migrants, in fact, you support terrorists. [[Szabó Timea: No! Don't say that. Cries and applause in the pro-government benches: That's right! Dr. Zsolt Semjén knocks on the table with his hands. Szabolcs Szabó, Zsolt Semjén: The reindeer are not here!]]
u2018-11-26-160	Dear Parliament, Congressman! I'm warning you about your interrogation, and you know that if I warn you again, I'm gonna have to get you voted out of today. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes. A voice from the benches of Fidesz: Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] Member István Itányi, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How long can people who are suffering from organised crime continue to drive the city of Szeged? Here you go, Congressman. [[Noise, interruptions.]]
u2018-11-26-161	Dear Secretary of State, As we got used to in recent years, skeletons related to the activities of socialist city management in Szeged have fallen apart. Only Szegedi Közlekedési Kft. We are thinking of condemning the former head of the local government, the head of the local government and the deputy mayor and chief of staff of László Botka, when we recall the local familiarity of VIP parking tickets. But we must not forget another flagrant scandal, namely the Seviép case. The Soclib city leadership, led by László Botka, organized criminal circles took over Szeged due to his deliberate or careless attitude. The city administration turns a blind eye to the fact that the most important construction company in the region has not paid its subcontractors. At first instance, the district court found the company's three leaders guilty of the crime of bankruptcy. It is clear from the indictment that the managers used the company as a kind of financial institution, provided loans of a magnitude exceeding several billion in company capital, and then caused serious damage to their creditors, failing to meet the payment demands. One of the Szeviép loan companies was the Security Works Ltd., whose manager was the man who is currently the manager of the airport operated by the Szeged municipality during that period. The victim's representative has repeatedly pointed out that the defendants' companies can be linked to socialist city management on several points. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how much longer can people suffering from organised crime lead the city of Szeged? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Völner, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP has demonstrated for several decades that lies and corruption have led their party. It is not enough that the whole country has been misled before, now living in the city of Szeged, the only city under their influence. However, the truth seems to catch up with the Socialists of Szeged, Botka's court supplier and gang of criminals. Szeviép Zrt., which is already in liquidation, is active in road construction, water building and building. His former leaders were declared guilty of bankruptcy, in particular in a significant way resulting in a real asset reduction, by preventing creditors from being satisfied. The District Court of Szeged sentenced István Ujhelyi's socialist representatives to 5 years 2 months in prison and László Botka's court suppliers, László Pistrui, Sándor Baranyi and József Oltványi. Although Mayor László Botka of Szeged repeatedly denied that the Municipality of Szeged had entered into a contract with Szeged, after a review of the Public Procurement Notice, it may soon be revealed that this is not the case. Although the verdict is not yet final, the bankruptcy of Sevipep is certainly Szeged's biggest political corruption case. The socialists simply stole the money from the former high-tech socialist construction business. This has destroyed 500 small businesses in Szeged and Szeged, who are compensated by the Orbán government instead of the insensitive socialists. According to our press information, the significant loss of property was caused by the fact that, as a member of the board, the defendants regularly granted large amounts of loans as a member of the board of directors, from 2007 onwards. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in a manner contrary to the requirements of sound management. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman István Vitányi for a minute's rejoinder, please.
u2018-11-26-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is clear from Mr State Secretary's reply that Szeged's socialist city leaders liked to fish in confusion. I hope that, next year, the voters will give an appropriate answer to the question I have asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Hiller: Choose...]]
u2018-11-26-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will also be given to Secretary of State Pál Völner, please.
u2018-11-26-167	These loans, which I have mentioned, are, of course, wholly or wholly owned by their own companies. owned by companies and individuals, including the accused and sports organisations. In several cases, companies with liquidity problems received loans despite the fact that they had already accumulated significant debts against the company at the time of the loan and thus had no realistic chance of repayment. One of the companies was run by István Ujhelyi's former driver. After the company went bankrupt, he is, of course, managing the airport at the Transport Company in Szeged, so he was kept within the framework of the organization and taken care of. And indeed, it is up to the electorate not to let other families suffer further losses in Szeged. Indeed, in the elections, it is necessary to decide whether such scandals are still being asked for in Szeged. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? It's an address. Congressman Peter James has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Prime Minister! As I walk the countryside, more and more worry about the low water level of the Danube [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause, as they say, it's easy to freeze, and Viktor's gonna be crowned. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik. Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-170	Congressman!
u2018-11-26-171	Now, let's start by saying that this seems like a real danger... [[The President shall turn off the representative's microphone, who shall continue his speech without sound.]]
u2018-11-26-172	Congressman! Congressman, anything can be brought in as a quote, and the president's job is to decide whether or not he's doing the right thing. I'm saying that's why I'm warning you. [[17.00]]
u2018-11-26-173	I'm honored. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In view of the fact that the people consider it a real danger that you crown yourself, I would like to recommend to them the warnings of a true king, St. Stephen, Prime Minister, and it would be good if you would follow this without a crown. My first warning is to listen. - "Be kind not only to your kinship and to the rulers, but to all who come near you." Prime Minister, you're doing the exact opposite. Your father, your son-in-law, your kin wins the billion-dollar state orders, one of your main men, a certain baron Mészáros Lőrinc will soon become the richest man in the world, not to mention the rest of the court fools; while the people will be worked for hunger, they will take away the cafeteria, the house savings, and instead they can go on overtime. Second warning: "Be strong, lest luck be too good for you." Prime Minister, you're weak. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And in his weakness let the luck pick him up. You dreamed of having a stadium at the end of your garden in the Upstairs, and what God gives you has become. He dreamed of having a small train, and he did. I wish, Prime Minister, that the Hungarian people would be so lucky, because then there would be modern hospitals and schools in this country, European wages, European pensions, but let's face it, the people are not as lucky as you are. Then another warning: "Be gentle, never fight the truth." And what do you do, Prime Minister? Someone finds out that you're on a luxury plane to soccer games, and instead of mildly apologizing to these people, you're arrogantly threatening to expose the truth, that you're gonna be good for it, and everyone who's messing with your corruption. Prime Minister, Szent István basically expected three things from Hungary's current leader, you, too: that he should not steal, that he should not lie, that he would serve the Hungarians with humility instead. I'm asking you why you're doing the exact opposite. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This also applies to you! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-174	I'll ask the Prime Minister if he wants to answer.
u2018-11-26-175	I don't know if I want to, but it's certain that constitutional customs do. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The thing is, it's not nice to lie. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: No! That's what the question was!]] But there's a bigger problem in politics: if you believe your own lies. So the thing is, you guys are constantly accusing the government side of all kinds of lies, then pretending it's real, and once again reading your own lies on our heads. I don't think this is the right procedure. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] As far as the coronation is concerned, I would like to make it clear that this is prohibited by the Hungarian Constitution. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercom from Jobbik: Is that the only problem?!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-176	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-177	Prime Minister, I'm not afraid of the Danube coronation, to be honest, because you're the one who lies here so much that that ice would break under you. [[Interjections, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But regardless, he thinks he's a king who thinks he can do anything in this country. If he's in a royal mood, he can take in fallen dictators while he's chasing his own people away. If you feel like it, you can take gifts from your corrupt friends while you're makin' out your own people. Prime Minister, you think you're a king, but do you really know what you are? Do you know what you are? It's an ordinary pile of horses. It's an ordinary horse's pile that's three times... [[The president will turn off the congressman's microphone, who will continue his speech without a voice.]] ...and he's proud of it...
u2018-11-26-178	Congressman, I'm warning you again...
u2018-11-26-179	And he's proud of that! [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Go to the pub!]] Don't be proud of it.
u2018-11-26-180	... and today, I'm going to take the initiative at the National Assembly to exclude you from any debate today. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The head of this House has the right and the duty to do so. That's... [[James Peter: Long live the king! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I've taken the floor from you, Congressman. This must, of course, be approved by the House, so we will now have a vote, and I ask for the preparation of this. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: by name! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I warned you twice about sounds and rating markers that basically destroy the authority of this Parliament. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I ask this House... [[Noise.]] I ask the House whether it accepts my suggestion that James Peter, who gave the double warning... [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: It was just a warning!]] triggering the double warning... [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] My fellow Members, I ask you to be serious...! [[Dr. István Apáti: Fifty blows! Intercom from Jobbik: Winterfell! Let's put him outside the house in Kaloda.]] Peter James, who was the trigger, is excluded from Parliament's activities today. Anyone who agrees, please vote. [[Vote. Noise.]] I declare that the Parliament has 103 yeses, 34 votes against, without abstention, Mr.Péter James after two warnings [[Interviews from Jobbik: It was one time! It was a one-time thing.]] You cut him off from today's work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I will ask the Prime Minister whether, however, he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Is this what it is?! On the signal of Viktor Orbán:]] Yeah, in a minute. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-26-181	I'd like to say a word to protect the horseshit. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So the thing is, there's been some misunderstanding, horse riding is a decent profession, and it goes beyond my... [[Depreciation, interruptions. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: So what's wrong?! Then what's wrong?! We're asking for a new vote.]] it's beyond my ability, considering that horseshounds are good with horses. Here the question has to be asked differently. You have to ask yourself what a leader has to do. The answer is to drive. And if you've succeeded, if you're good at it, then the electorate will decide. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-11-26-182	Thank you very much. [[To James Peter:]] All I'm saying, Congressman, is that you didn't use that word in that sense. [[A statement from Jobbik: Prejudical, Mr. President. You don't see it... interjections from Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman Bence Rétvári, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: I would like to inform the Member that the Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, to reply to an urgent public task. The congressman indicated to me that he would accept the identity of the responder. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Many people believe in the age of globalisation that the national culture has been abandoned, and we think otherwise. Many people believe that in the virtual world, in this contemporary spirit, it is unnecessary to create theatres, it is unnecessary for the national culture to create new bridge posts, because everything is only happening in virtual space, everything needs to be brought up in three-dimensional representation. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We think that this is different; we believe that it makes sense for national culture to create more and more beachheads, because this is what Hungarian people need. A good example of this is the history of the Váci Dunakanyar Theatre. This theater was established in 2013. Before that, before 2010, it was a socialist city administration that could not fill it with content, since they had various cinema and other community experiments, but in fact it was mostly about closing this institution sooner or later, and if it had the opportunity, it would obviously have privatized it. At the same time, in 2013, a new life was added to the theatre building, the former cinema building, in the first year 8 thousand, in the second year 17 thousand, and in the third year with 29 thousand visitors. More and more people came because more and more people were curious about the Hungarian national culture, the performances that had been performed at the Váci Dunakanyar Theatre, and they needed a young, enthusiastic team to do all this. This initiative was supported by the Government of Hungary with a HUF 325 million grant, with which this completely new theater, which fulfilled the expectations attached to it, could be renewed; its stage, viewer room, service units, light technology, sound technology could be renewed, and the building was expanded with several new features. This also shows that if a new community of Hungarian national culture is created somewhere, another theatre is created, people need it; even when they have smartphones in their pockets, even when the economy is globalised, there is a demand for national culture in every Hungarian city and every settlement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, and welcome my fellow Members. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Unlike other sectors, the cultural area is not vertical but is of a comprehensive, horizontal nature, thus effectively achieving its objectives in cooperation with other sectors and its results enrich other sectors. This character is also shown by the fact that the budget has resources to finance cultural activities in a number of chapters, such as revenue from the Ministry of Human Resources, the Prime Minister's Office, local government support, state wealth and [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] For expenditure, the National Cultural Fund or the Hungarian Academy of Arts, there are also appropriations for this purpose. Among the general objectives of the cultural sector, it remains of particular importance to ensure the functioning of the cultural institution system, to preserve and make cultural goods and cultural heritage accessible, to extend the basic cultural supply and to realise the resulting community development goals, including, of course, the establishment, establishment and support of theatres. [[17.10]] I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the Hungarian Government also finances cultural events and commemorative years. For example, the Bartók Year, the Gulág Memorial Year, the Arany János Memorial Year, the 1956 Memorial Year, the centenary of World War I. This proves that the government places great emphasis on strengthening Hungarian identity and maintaining its historical traditions. If you don't mind, Congressman, I'll be back for the rest of my minutes on the theater in Vác. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor back to you, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think this is a message to everyone who wants to cultivate the Hungarian national culture, and in this he can show success, that what he still needs to move on from the Government of Hungary will always be given to him. It is very important that the creation of such a new institution also creates a number of other positives, whether in the context of a poem festival, a V4 cultural festival and a theatre meeting, new events that have an international reputation, whether national or V4. It is important that the best way to cultivate European culture is through our national culture. For this to happen, Hungarian theatres and theatres need to reach as many people as possible, and it should not be the privilege of the metropolitan or Budapesters to do so in relatively geographical proximity if they want to go to the theatre. We believe that this must be guaranteed to all Hungarians, and the government has provided the necessary resources for this. Thank you all, Mark Little Domonkos and all the other actors who believed in a mission that many would have said was an impossible mission. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Congressman says, between 1865 and 1920 some 25 stone theatres were built in Hungary. In 1949 the theatres were nationalized, but after the change of regime, the structure remained based on a stone theatre system with a permanent company. In addition, several areas remained unsatisfyed from a theatrical point of view. For example, Vác, Salgótarján, or Szombathely. In Szombathely the town's first stone theatre, Weöres Sándor Theatre, opened in autumn 2008. At the same time as the Dunakanyar Theatre in Salgótarján in Vác, the advisory body of the Minister for Culture, the Theatre Arts Committee, proposes the award of the priority rating, i.e. the assessment of the central budget support for the Zenthe Ferenc Theatre. Honourable Congressman, Congratulations on the results achieved, and I wish you success and success in the operation of the new theatre. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-190	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is going on in the Ministry of the Interior? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-26-191	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would first like to say to Pál Völner and István Vitányi that the Prime Minister's words apply, of course, to Szeged, who will lead and in what way, this will be decided by the electorate. We are convinced that László Botka will be re-elected because the Szegedians will see through your lying, filthy propaganda. As far as the Minister is concerned, Minister, I asked you in writing on 8 August 2018 what was going on with the recording of 3,000 new border hunters. In two weeks' time, the Secretary of State of Károly Kontra sent an unqualified reply on your behalf, and then, on October 24, 2018, three months later, in violation of the parliamentary law and all existing and relevant laws, you finally gave me your personal signature. This is not an isolated case. And if you look at the content of the answer, Minister, what we see is that, compared to the 3,000 new border hunters, it turns out that 1878 has started training and 1622 have completed it. This is not 3,000, it is fact and truth, and the rest have been replaced by redeployment or by young people from vocational secondary schools. But the same subject, Minister, was the police's unpaid overtime money, which was also reported in support of Index documents, in which BM was also silent or lied. That's the way the Elios case went down. The D.A.'s office was talking about years of investigation, and then they shut it down, and BM's been quiet or lying about it ever since. That's the Gruevski case, where we know from somewhere else that he probably got an entry permit from the Home Minister, but the BM is either silent or lying about it, and we still don't know what happened. But such are the laws, Minister, which are about the lives of his own colleagues, the Act on RIAS or the pledging of the Immigration Office, which the Parliament will vote on in December, and before that, the Ministry of the Interior remained silent or lied. So I ask Minister, what is going on in the Ministry of the Interior, if there will finally be consequences for your colleagues talking nonsense. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-26-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, answers the question. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-26-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, thank you, Mr President, for waiting for me to give you the answer, and I would also like to ask on behalf of my colleagues and myself that in each of your questions the word "liar" appears. The reason I'm surprised at this is because you regularly follow him through, monitor the work of the Ministry of the Interior. Since 2010, he has asked 403 written questions and I feel that he has received the answer to all the questions. He attended the meetings of the Defence and Police Committee, 249 times, on these occasions I was in person in many cases and gave the answer, and in all cases to the best of my knowledge, to the best of my knowledge, and it is clear that we did not speak with him in any case. What's going on at the Home Office? The Ministry of the Interior is in order, it's planned, it's professional, and I'm very pleased that you can follow up on that, and what's more, follow up on that. The answer to this question on August 8th was given by my colleagues to review and look at it using IT systems. We trusted him, and I trust that you can manage these IT systems later on, so the answers can be found. But once again, I would like to say that, if my signature is not enough to answer, now in a statement we have the number of people, where we hired them, and how the 98.73 percent upload of border hunters comes out. I can deliver this to you if you like. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-194	I thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. There you go, in a minute.
u2018-11-26-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I don't need this paper, because, as I said, three months late and with no law, your colleagues, your subordinates gave me an unqualified answer. Minister, the answer they gave me to see on the police.hu website was Károly Kontrat, trying to find police officers at various recruitment events, but there was no statistics or numbers on it. Yeah, I was waiting for you because you're feeling good, something's not right. In recent years, the Ministry of the Interior, if you asked an objective, fair question, has given an objective and fair answer. I no longer know, Minister, who controls that wallet, Antal Rogán, Árpád Habony, or who the good Lord is, but that neither their parliamentary secretariat, nor their press department, nor the press, nor the Members of Parliament, have been getting a fair answer for almost half a year, that is for sure, and I ask Minister to have this examined and tidyed up in his wallet. Thank you very much. [[György Balla: Couldn't you be frustrated?]]
u2018-11-26-196	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-26-197	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for Mr President's proposal, but I believe that this is not necessary to a significant extent, because, as I stressed, the Ministry of the Interior is working in compliance with the laws and maintaining a significant order. I think that we are not giving political, but professional answers in every respect. However, I wonder if the Ministry of Interior has been interpelled 144 times in the last eight years. On the other hand, on these 144 occasions, you and your party have accepted the answer two times in total. A man as well-prepared as you, who knows how the Ministry of Interior works, can't say that we only gave a professional answer two times. So I think this part is a little out of line here, you're over-politicizing the question a little bit. The Ministry of Interior is not the area where it needs to be over-politicised. You have to serve here and keep order. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2018-11-26-198	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Immigration organization is the Hungarian government, will the Attorney General initiate an investigation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Attorney General. The government, as an immigration support organisation, allowed the Macedonian citizen Nikola Gruevski to initiate the asylum procedure, who came through three countries where he was not persecuted, thus achieving the promotion of illegal immigration in Btk. 353. The infringement in paragraph 1 (a) of this Article. Gruevski was brought to Hungary by Hungarian diplomats sentenced to prison, who, as perpetrators, who gave orders to do so, carried out it as an instigator by the Btk. 282. The offence of acquiescence in violation of paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 (d). A crisis caused by mass immigration is announced, yet the Asylum Act is set at 80. In contrast to point J of Section J, the application may have been submitted outside the transit zone and the territory of the transit zone has not been designated as its place of residence. This was a help to cross the state border by violating legal provisions, which was the Btk. In accordance with Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: According to Section 2 of the Act, he considers it to be smuggling of human beings. Gruevski allegedly crossed the border with a single travel document issued by the Hungarian State. Such a document may be issued under the relevant law only for departure or return from the country. If the news is true, then the Btk has come true. 305. Article 342 of the Rules of Procedure and possibly Article 342 of the Rules of Procedure. The felony forgery of authentic instruments within the meaning of the first paragraph of this Article. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I'm asking the Attorney General when he's going to prosecute the crimes committed during Gruevski's escape. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-11-26-200	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Attorney General Péter Polt, whom we welcome to the Chamber. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2018-11-26-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! In the case referred to by you, a private individual first filed a complaint on 15 November 2018 on the basis of news reports, an abuse of office and another crime. In this he raised Nikola Gruevsk's entry into the country and the steps taken during the asylum procedure. In view of the fact that the complaint was based on newspaper articles and was not specific in relation to any crime, a supplementary complaint was ordered on 19 November 2018 by the National Detective Office of the Alert Police. After those dates, additional individuals and two Members of Parliament filed similar complaints. Their complaint will be assessed by the National Bureau of Investigation on the subject of the first complaint, and the procedure is thus pending. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-202	Thank you very much, Mr Attorney General, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer. You have the floor in a one-minute time frame.
u2018-11-26-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prosecutor! It is a fact that this Macedonian citizen has come through three countries considered safe, who have been allowed to initiate asylum procedures. In fact, he was fleeing the Macedonian authorities, and the diplomats who traveled him helped him. It is also a fact that the escaped criminal entered Hungary without travel documents; if he did so to initiate an asylum procedure, the relevant provisions of the Asylum Act were violated. It is a fact that the issue of a single travel document for entry purposes is not permitted by law. Therefore, if the investigation were to be concluded as usual in the absence of a criminal offence, it would only support the fact that here the top leaders of the Hungarian state conspired to escape a convicted criminal and, moreover, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You might as well be suspected of accomplice. [[The president's ringing again.]] and misappropriation of office. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-11-26-204	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-205	I ask you, Member, to accept that the facts will be determined by the determining authorities in accordance with the legal conditions and that the case will also be dealt with in accordance with the law. Then we can get back to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Interview from Jobbik's benches: Wait for it...]] [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2018-11-26-206	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. Dear Parliament, It's 5:26 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We are now continuing our work with a debate on proposals for proposals, Commission reports and summary amendments. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of laws and related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3375. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee on 12 July 2018 CLVI of 2016 on public tasks in the development of tourism areas was discussed at its meeting. T/3375 on the amendment of law and related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. Mr President, I just want to say that July is likely to be a typo, this is, of course, about this meeting in November. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has set itself as a strategic goal the digitalisation of the tourism sector, the development of innovative technological solutions and processes, and the development of digital attitudes. Due to the expectations of the modern age, the first mandatory technological step is to modernise the applications used for accommodation services. In the future, the aggregated and depersonalised statistical data generated during the accommodation service would be directed towards the National Tourism Data Service Centre through the digital applications to be used by the accommodation facilities. The obligation of the accommodation provider is to use the technologically appropriate accommodation management software and its day-to-day management. Accommodation management software can store specific data in its own database and transmit statistical data electronically to the system under specified conditions. In the case of hotel guests, it is in the interest of the hotel service providers to store the information of the guests in a reliable, secure place and to transfer the information of the guest to the foreign police authority. [[17 .30]] This is not a unique solution in Europe, all guest data are recorded in Austria and Germany, as is the case with the Hungarian proposal, and can be accessed electronically by authorised bodies. There are similar regulations for foreign guests in France and Slovakia. In any case, guests' data can be checked by the police and foreign police. The bill also clarifies the provisions on trust rights for priority tourism investments. Dear House, The bill makes it possible to implement tourism, a system that meets the expectations of the modern age, so I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, indicated that he wished to speak on behalf of the rapporteur later in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, I ask if any of my fellow Members wish to speak on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to speak. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-26-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then I'll try to keep it short. We are pleased that, although many proposals and suggestions have been made, no one has contested the strategic importance of tourism, even because it contributed 10.3 percent of the total national product in 2017, while working for 412 thousand people. We would like to see tourism move further in the future, which is why the government has submitted this amendment package. The amendment concerns three priority areas, digital data provision, priority tourism investments and the processing of guests. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about amendments that are consistent with international practices, for example, Austria and Germany have a general registration obligation. So all in all, we hope that with these amendments, with the work of Hungarian people, Hungarian tourism can reach further levels in the future. For us, it is a strategic sector. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws relating to each election and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/2941. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2941 amending the laws relating to individual elections. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal before us is to enable non-EU Hungarian citizens, i.e. third-country nationals, to participate in the exercise of their right to vote and express their will in the election of members of the European Parliament. By amending the electoral document, the European Union itself encourages Member States to create an opinion for their non-EU citizens when deciding who should represent their country in Brussels. The spirit of the proposal itself shows that it is based on European values when a citizen who feels responsible for his country takes the opportunity to express his views on European matters. I consider this amendment particularly important when the Hungarians of Transcarpathia are seriously attacked in their homeland. In addition to extending suffrage, the bill ensures the coherence of the legal system by adapting the electoral and referendum law to the new terminology of administrative litigation. Finally, the bill also contains some conceptual clarification and clarification in related laws, such as the definition of campaign activity or electoral assembly. Dear House, In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage of the debate on behalf of the rapporteur. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak within the framework of our agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-213	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'll be very, very brief. As has been said, the aim of the bill is to create the possibility for non-EU Hungarian citizens to exercise the right to vote and, moreover, it contains technical amendments to the electoral procedural law, the referendum law, the European citizens' initiative law and the law on referendum proceedings, and in particular those relating to the entry into force of the Civil Procedure Act. We believe that this bill serves to strengthen European democracy and strengthens our efforts in national policy by, for example, creating the possibility for non-EU Hungarian citizens from Vojvodina to exercise active suffrage in the election of members of the European Parliament. We believe that this will also strengthen the legitimacy of the European Parliament. And, we are among ourselves, so it can be said that this is very necessary in a situation that is burdened with today's policy and with a deficit of legitimacy. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/3292. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-11-26-215	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and legal status of civil society organisations. T/3292 amending Act T/3292 Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. The Fundamental Law of Hungary guarantees freedom of association and assembly as a fundamental right. The objective obligation of the State to protect an institution in the case of this fundamental right of freedom is shown in such a way that it is obliged to protect that right and to facilitate and ensure its smooth exercise. [[17.40]] The work of civil society organisations is one of the cornerstones of democracy, as they want to pursue the interests of a particular group of citizens in public life by engaging in dialogue with the current government. It is a remarkable activity that they are pursuing, whether it is the representation of the interests of groups of national or local interest, as they are a kind of link between the public authority and the various layers of the civilian population. For this reason, the Government of Hungary considers the support of civil society organisations to be of particular interest to society, behind which there is real social support. The bill before us also aims to strengthen this objective by increasing the number of organisations that receive ministerial, individual support and by doubling the level of normative support to civil society organisations and reducing administrative activities related to their operation. The amendments envisaged in the proposal before us may prove appropriate to act as an incentive to increase the self-reliance of civil society organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to further strengthen the interests of civil society, I urge you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán indicated that he would like to speak as rapporteur at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Government of Hungary treats the support of civil society organisations as a priority social value and interest, because we believe that the activity they carry out at state level is also worthy of recognition. According to the latest data of the KSH, there are 61 thousand foundational and social non-profit organizations in Hungary, 54 015 of which are classic civil society organisations, i.e. organisations operating in the form of foundations and associations. I can tell you of the joyful development that all of their revenue has increased exponentially from the period since 2010: in 2010 these organisations received HUF 144 billion of state aid through the various channels, by 2016, this amount has increased to HUF 240 billion, and all the revenues, of course, including revenues from basic activity, farming and private donations, have increased to HUF 427 billion in 2010, to HUF 630 billion in 2016. The purpose of this bill is to promote the social responsibility of civil society organisations by encouraging their donation activities, by introducing a new form of support for local and territorial NGOs working for small communities, by introducing simplified support and by increasing the framework for individual support, to support the specific professional programmes of civil society organisations in a more flexible procedural framework. This will reduce overall administrative obligations related to the operation of organisations. The Hungarian Government, as I mentioned, and the Hungarian budget wants to place particular emphasis on the support of genuine civil society organisations, the figures spoke for themselves, and in this regard I would like to ask for your support in adopting the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/3374. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CXLIII. T/3374. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. OGY Decision 46. It adopted it by 24 votes in favour, not by vote, with 8 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to reduce the administrative burden on the application of the law, to settle the rules on electronic procurement introduced from 15 April 2018, to make changes to the institutions and to introduce measures to strengthen the supervision of public procurement. In addition, the proposal also makes minor amendments reflecting other experiences with the Public Procurement Act. From 15 April 2018, procurement and concession procurement procedures shall be conducted electronically using the so-called EKR, an electronic procurement system operated by the Prime Minister's Office. The priority objective of setting up and applying an electronic procurement system is to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to carry out procedures more quickly, to carry out procedures easily, to reduce administrative burdens and to support the control of public procurement procedures. The next important objective of the bill is to comply with the legislative obligation arising from EU law. Directive 2014/55/EU on the use of electronic invoicing in public procurement requires the receipt and processing of electronic invoices issued in accordance with the relevant European standard by the contracting authorities of the Member States. With effect from 18 April 2019, the amendment provides that the provision concerning the limitation of subcontractors' performance will be removed from the regulation in the case of works, in particular in the light of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the Union. On this basis, the draft law should have no other purpose than the introduction of procedural solutions to facilitate, accelerate and simplify procurement procedures, and simplification and acceleration will also contribute to a more effective implementation of EU-funded projects. In view of all this, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, indicated that he wished to make use of the opportunity to speak on behalf of the authors at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I am asking my fellow Members if they wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us, as the Member said, aims to amend the public procurement law for three years since the entry into force of the Act on Public Procurement in 2015 and for over six months since the introduction of e-procurement, with three main objectives: on the one hand, to clarify and strengthen the regulatory environment for electronic public procurement by raising the level of the law on public procurement; on the other hand, to simplify and speed up public procurement procedures; and, on the other hand, to strengthen the institutional system for supervising public procurement. [[17.50]] In our view, the objectives of the bill include everyday practice of contracting entities and tenderers, provisions to help enforcers, which allow better transparency of regulation and public procurement, and make it easier to participate in public procurement procedures, which the State intends to support by all means. I ask you to support the bill on the basis of what you have said. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-11-26-222	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following the turn of the 2019 year II. Discussion of the Commission's report on the declaration of Mr Rákóczi as a commemorative year. Mr Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey, Lőrinc Nacsa, István Németh Szilárd, Richárd Hörcsik and Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz, representatives submitted H/3355. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask if one of the authors wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-223	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, One of the most important traits of the Hungarian nation is the love of freedom and the desire for independence. One of Hungary's most important freedom fights is the II. The fight led by Ferenc Rákóczi, which lasted from 1703 to 1711. The longest of the three great freedom fights of the Hungarian people has not yet been celebrated, since after the Second World War, the commemorations have been cancelled, and there has been no change in this regrettable process after the change of regime. The National Assembly wishes to commemorate this event and spirit at the initiative of the Council of Human Dignity. II, who cannot tolerate the oppression of the Hungarian nation any longer. Ferenc Rákóczi, together with Count Miklós Bercsényi, published the Brezan manifesto in 1703, in which he called all the nobles and no-nos who wanted to be freed from the Habsburg League. The greatness of the prince to this day indicates that in this manifesto, in addition to the armed action, he warned that no one, regardless of religion, should disturb a church person, a temple, a city, a village, a battle should be confined to the enemy. On the flag of Rákóczi's armies, he put the inscription "Cum Deo Pro Patria et Libertate" with his soul for his country and freedom. As an example, he created an unprecedented unity among the patriots fighting for freedom, and with his 70,000-strong army, he achieved significant military success by lifting the seemingly irreconcilable conflict of interest between nobility and serfdom. The Memorial Year of Ferenc Rákóczi does not commemorate a noble man fighting for the freedom of his country. Rákóczi is a symbol of the spirituality that is capable of subjugating life to a higher purpose, cause, ability to sacrifice and unite. And by forging nobility and serfdom, he laid the foundations for social progress that was unprecedented in Europe for another hundred years. The revolution failed, in 1711 they were forced to put down the weapon, and the war of freedom was closed with the peace of Satmar. However, Rákóczi's struggle was not in vain, for as a result of peace they could not completely melt our country into the Habsburg Empire, recognized religious freedom, restored the constitution, and received amnesty for those involved in the battles. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi was forced to emigrate, but he became a national hero, his memory is still preserved in all the settlements of the country and in the torn parts of the country. In addition, Rákóczi's intellectual and spiritual heritage was able to win, as it was the strength of the heroes of 1848, the revolutionaries of 1956 and our young people living today. Such commemorative years and commemorative days thus strengthen patriotism and national self - respect. In light of these, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-26-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member that he has a six-minute time frame for the closing. Thank you again. Dear Parliament, I ask whether, on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Árpád Potápi wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Árpád János Potápi: Yes.]] If so, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say very briefly about the commemorative year that, last time in the debate, all the factions supported it. I really hope we're looking at a successful memorial year. In recent years, we have been carrying out the commemorative year of Áron Márton, Saint László Szent and King Matthias this year. The programmes of the Memorial Year were successful, we can say that in nearly 150 locations in the world where Hungarians live, they were all involved in the celebrations of the Memorial Year. A week and a half ago, the Hungarian Diaspora Council and the Hungarian Permanent Conference met. Both national political forums supported the Memorial Year initiative in their final declaration and asked Parliament and the Hungarian Government to become the following year II. A commemorative year named after Ferenc Rákóczi. The government naturally supports this proposal, and is pleased that so many Members have joined the proposal. I hope that Parliament will adopt this proposal for a resolution by a large majority. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-26-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. The representatives will now take part in the relevant time frame. I ask whether one of my fellow Members wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Ferenc Koncz, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak. [[Ferenc Koncz: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for the unity that has now been shown on this issue at Commission level, during the discussions that have been held so far. For me, as a citizen of Zemplén, former mayor of Szerencs, who lives in the former land of Rákócziak and the town of Szerencs preserves the memory of the family founder Zsigmond Rákóczi, and it was an honor to present this memorial day. Thank you very much for your support so far, and I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members for this support to be reflected in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-26-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. Act and Act XLII 2015 on the status of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act in the context of the over-service. T/3053 submitted by the Defence and Police Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] The rapporteur indicated that he did not wish to speak. I am now asking whether, on the part of the Government, the Secretary of State wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. (To be indicated:) Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-26-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government continues to support the bill before us, which is very positive both for the military and for professional law enforcement workers. After all, the current over-work arrangements will be extended until 31 December 2022. I ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-230	I would like to thank Mr István Szilárd Németh for his speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-26-231	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill reserves the right of professional members of the defence to continue to ask for the redemption of the term of over-service in overtime or free time. On 22 November 2018, the Defence and Police Committee held a detailed debate. T/3053. CCV 2012 on the status of military fighters. Act No 13 and Act No XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The Commission supported the proposal to amend the law in the context of the over-service. No amendments to the proposal have been received. The Defence and Police Committee did not submit any amendments. Please support the bill.
u2018-11-26-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representatives will now take part in the relevant time frame. I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The author indicates that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/2938. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2938 amending certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the government's business-friendly policy and cooperation with the business sector have made great progress in many areas. Entrepreneurs pay less tax every year, for example, Hungarian companies pay the lowest company tax of 9% in the European Union. Both the economic results of the government's actions, the stability and balance of growth, show that the country is moving in the right direction. It is well known that small and medium-sized enterprises play an important role in the country's income generation and employment. Given the fact that they play their part in creating jobs, it is of particular importance to increase the competitiveness of these businesses. At present, however, Hungarian businesses face challenges such as increasing productivity, addressing labour demand and, not least, improving competitiveness. With these objectives in mind, the proposal is aimed at amending certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, including an expert committee setting out the most extensive construction standards for which there is the greatest market demand, may be established on the basis of the authorisation provision to be laid down in the National Standardisation Act. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is a well-thought-out, professionally inclusive proposal. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-26-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr László György, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[László György: Later.]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Enterprise Development Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I wonder if anyone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I will give the floor if Mr State Secretary wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State László György. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-235	Thank you very much. Repetition is the father of knowledge. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government considers strengthening the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector and improving their competitiveness to be a priority. As I mentioned in the general debate, the bill before us is another step in the series of measures aimed at developing small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. As a next step in the overall strategy for achieving these objectives, we have initiated the amendment of the following legislation. Decision XXXIV of 2004 on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development In the case of law, four amendments are proposed. As a result of the first amendment, we introduce a single concept for related businesses, i.e. there will be no difference between EU and Hungarian legislation. Although there has been no change in content, clarification and clarification make it easier for law-abiding users to use the definition on a day-to-day basis. We can consider this a deregulation move. Secondly, we will bring the provisions of the law into line with the government division of labour in May 2018, as the Minister for Innovation and Technology is responsible for the development of SMEs. We are talking about a simple technical amendment here. The third is that every year the government receives information on the situation of SMEs, the manager of the allocated state fund and the target forecast set in the central budget, the President of the Hungarian National Bank, the President of the Public Procurement Authority, the President of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office and the State Tax Authority. In view of the fact that detailed rules for reporting are laid down in a Government Decree, it is therefore not appropriate to regulate the deadlines for reporting in the Act. This is also a deregulation measure. Fourth, the Enterprise Development Council is a consultative body of the Minister for Economic Development, on the one hand, to inform organisations involved in the development of SMEs and on the other. By its composition, it is suitable for SMEs and their organisations to participate in the preparation of decisions affecting them. The amending proposal therefore extends the scope of members of the Enterprise Development Council in order to allow an even wider number of stakeholders to be involved in SME consultation. In addition to the previous members, the Board will be a member of the Small Business Development Foundation, the Director of SEED. In addition, the regulation is adapted to good practice by not naming background institutions, since its representatives may be invited by the Minister with the right to consult. That is why we removed the NCTH from the Enterprise Development Council, not with a punitive character, as NCTH belongs to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. The second part of the bill is specifically aimed at improving the situation of construction operators, so we are initiating the amendment of two laws. [[18.10]] One of our proposals is Article XXVIII of 1995 on national standardisation. The aim is to amend the law. The priority objective of the amendment is to reduce the costs of architect design offices by creating a body that proposes to support the use of the most commonly used standards. In many cases, a designer uses 30-40 standards at the same time, and the cost of using the standards is HUF 1-2 million, which is reduced to a few tens of thousands of HUF. This will improve the regional and international competitiveness of design offices. This is not a bureaucracy-enhancing proposal either. The panel, which we set up, consists of representatives of the design offices with the aim of setting the most commonly used standards, so that we can achieve a significant cost reduction in the operation of the architect design offices. In our other proposal, the XXXIV of 2013 on the organisation involved in the settlement of certain disputes relating to the design and execution of works and the modification of certain laws in relation to the prevention of chain debts and late payments. We have initiated an amendment of the law. In 2013, with the establishment of the certification expert body, the introduction of a faster, more efficient expert procedure, we defended SME contractors against larger companies whose willingness to pay or solvency had deteriorated. We are now developing this measure, under which not only SMEs but also families who order can use the performance certification expert body to deal with abuse. On the basis of the amendment, a wider and not exclusively performance-related fee claim will be used for shorter procedural time limits in practice, a trial type using specific measures that may be used on the basis of the opinion's findings. Dear House, The Committee on Enterprise Development adopted a codification amendment, which was also supported by the Government, so we passed the codification language specifications through the bill. I would also like to thank the honourable committees for their high-quality professional work, with which they have contributed to clarifying and clarifying the text of the bill. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for taking part in the debate so far. Even if there was no debate today, but there has been a very active debate on this issue before, the questions raised could now be answered. I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the summary amendment and the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-26-236	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. The Commission's reports on the implementation of the Act and the debate on the draft amending proposal. Government referral T/1671. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as a matter of nationality and EU agenda. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views of the minority expressed. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable House! We have before us a bill for the closure of the 2017 central budget, the general debate of which took place on 17 October. The Committee on Budgets as a designated committee and, as the House Rule requires, the other Standing Committees of Parliament discussed the proposal during the period from 24 October to 8 November. The negotiating committees have all found that the bill complies with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) and therefore this proposal complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law. I would like to inform the House that no amendments have been tabled by its representatives, but the Committee on Budgets has tabled a clarification amendment at the stage of the detailed debate, and our committee, acting as a legislative committee at the TAB stage, has also tabled another so-called TAB modifier, which focused on two things. On the one hand, it was about letting go of PVSK's grant because DRB Bank went bankrupt and led the association's account. The other increased the single additional normative support of churches. The following are the opinions of the negotiating committees. Where there's only legal compliance, I'm only gonna say that in one sentence. Opinion of the Committee on Budgets. The profit margin of the Union methodology was reached at 2,2% of the total national product. And I think we can all be proud of the 4.1 percent increase compared to the gross domestic product achieved. In the last year, personal income tax revenue generated HUF 127.5 billion, while pension and health insurance and labour market contributions generated HUF 147.8 billion higher revenues than originally planned. The proportion of gross government debt to the national total product decreased to 73,3% by the end of 2017, despite the fact that Eximbank was included in the data series. If it hadn't been counted, the government debt would have dropped to 71,3%. In 2017, investments in the national economy increased by 18.2 percent, which also exceeded preliminary expectations. Employment decreased by 1.6 percent in 2017 . The number of people employed in the competitive sector increased by 2.9 percent, while the number of people in the public sector decreased by 3.5 percent. The number of employees has thus risen to an unprecedented level since the change of regime, exceeding 4.4 million people. The unemployment rate in the last year was 4.2 percent. On average, prices increased by 2.4 per cent in 2017, so that inflation was higher than the projected 0.9 per cent. The increase in prices was due to higher than expected increases in energy prices and to a higher increase in world prices for some basic foods such as dairy products and pigmeat. In order to reduce migratory pressure, the budget spent 155 billion forints last year to carry out border protection tasks. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs evaluated the expenses of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which reached HUF 228 billion by the end of 2017. The administration of foreign representations cost 84 billion forints of the Ministry, in 2017 the Government decided that the Institute of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and the Balassi Institute had ceased to succeed, and the Ministry spent 3 billion forints to carry out the tasks of the National Investment Agency. One of the cornerstones of the budget is the goal of national policy to support the Ministry's economic development strategy for Hungarian minorities across borders in neighbouring countries. International membership fees, for example, came from the membership fees of the OECD, NATO, the Visegrad Fund, which amounted to HUF 6 billion. EU deposits amounted to HUF 4.3 billion. It should be pointed out that, in the case of international organisations falling within its competence, the JRC was one of the first to settle its international contractual obligations in 2017. In conclusion, the budget further helped the development of the Hungarians living abroad, and the local prosperity of the Hungarians living there. We have fulfilled our financial obligations arising from international cooperation and have carried out the tasks entrusted to us. The Committee on Sustainable Development provided for compliance by law. I'm reading the opinion of the Economic Committee. It is clear from the accounts on the implementation of the 2017 budget that economic policy aims at keeping the budget deficit low, reducing public debt, improving the country's competitiveness, increasing employment and increasing the country's growth potential. The international recognition of the government's economic policy means that our country's credit rating has been changed from neutral to positive. Last year, a wage agreement with employers' and employees' interest representatives has entered into force, which has contributed to increasing Hungary's competitiveness. This means that the social contribution tax has decreased by 5 percentage points, the minimum wage has increased by 15 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage for employees in jobs requiring at least secondary education and skills. [[18.20]] Thanks to the government's large-scale home-building programme and the increasing use of EU funds, construction has increased by almost 32 percent, to an unprecedented extent. There is also an acceleration in industry due to the new production capacities developed in recent periods and the recovery of external demand. The National Security Committee has also concluded that the closure is in compliance with the legal obligations; the Defence Committee has also established this; as well as the People's Welfare Committee and the Cultural Committee. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and the Judicial Committee have made similar findings. The Committee on Agriculture said a little more: 2017 should continue to be one of the outstanding years for agriculture. Hungarian agriculture continues to give a significant share of the gross domestic product, which has been unprecedented for a long time. There was no area of agriculture where there was no emergency in 2017. Agriculture continues to have significant assets and volumes of emissions, but it would be better if its structure were not to have such a large share in raw materials and bulk exports, but that processed agricultural products and foodstuffs would take over the role of raw materials export. Agriculture remains a major player in employment, but there is a risk that there is no sufficient workforce available in certain fields. I convey to you the opinion of the National Assembly Committee: 2017 was a milestone in national policy, the total government resources for supporting foreign Hungarians exceeded the HUF 100 billion limit this year. This means that the amount spent on national policy has been tenfold since 2010. The resources of the National Political Secretariat and the Bethlen Gábor Fund increased to more than HUF 80 billion during the year, and there are constantly increasing amounts available for the development of the Hungarian institutional network in the Carpathian Basin. In 2017, significant investments were made in all Hungarian regions, especially in Hungarian educational institutions. Young people are the future of Hungary beyond our borders. The Hungarian students received continuous, predictable support within the framework of the program in Hungarian. It is to be welcomed that the proposal for the promotion of Hungarian youth communities abroad will be launched with an increasing annual envelope. In 2017 HUF 100 million was available for this purpose. Last year, after Vojvodina and Transcarpathia, the implementation of regional economic development plans started in several Hungarian regions abroad. Within the framework of the economic development programme in the Carpathian Basin, under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, tens of thousands of Hungarian entrepreneurs from abroad received development funds. In addition to the funds for strengthening sisterhood relations, the limitless! The financial envelope for the programme has also been increased. On this basis, it can be said that in 2017 we took further steps to create a single Carpathian Basin space. We continued to strengthen the Hungarian communities abroad by making programmes and grants to preserve and prosper in the homeland of foreign Hungarians systemic and predictable. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee: One of the most significant economic policy developments in 2017 is the entry into force of a wage agreement with employers' and employees' interest representatives. It is important to point out that the dynamically rising wages as a result of the six-year wage and tax agreement have strengthened demand, which has led to the performance of the service sectors. In addition to increasing labour demand, this was based on a number of measures to encourage labour market participation and job demand, including the reduction of personal income tax, contributions under the employment protection action, the setting up of job search grants, the strengthening of the conditions for disability retirement, the effective retirement age increase, and the six-year tax and wage agreement already mentioned. The Committee on European Affairs also concluded that the proposal complies with the house rules. In addition, Mr President, Mr State Secretary, in the light of the macroeconomic facts, we can say that in 2017 the main sectors of the Hungarian economy were strengthened, while the balance indicators remained stable. On the basis of the summarised opinions that have been expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority positions in the committee will now be presented and will take place. However, I must state that the authors are not in the Chamber at the moment. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: That's what they did.]] So, unfortunately, in this situation, I do not see an opportunity, and we have done everything we can to find them, and unfortunately they have left the Chamber. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Banai Benő, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2018-11-26-239	Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As the spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is the T/1671. XC 2016 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 The draft law implementing the Act was put on the agenda and discussed at its meeting on 25 October 2018 at 13 a.m. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution, i.e. the House Rule 44-45. Article 1-22 of the bill, i.e. the whole of the bill. It held a detailed debate on the draft law, as well as on Annexes 1 to 5. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 92. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. With regard to the proposals for amendments to the bill, the Committee did not take a position, the Committee did not intend to make an amendment, so it did not submit an amendment closing the detailed debate. The committee decided, with 12 votes in favour, to close the detailed discussion of the bill on 25 October 2018, without abstention or opposition. XC 2016 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 The preparation of the bill on the implementation of the law, the detailed discussion of the committee and the preparation of the Commission's report on the detailed debate have been carried out in accordance with the legislation. I would like to stress that, in recent years, the nationalities in Hungary have become beneficiaries of a significant increase in resources. Thank you to the Government of Hungary for providing nationalities with the resources necessary for their operation. The Hungarian Parliament is also grateful for its support for the resources submitted by the Hungarian nationalities. [[18.30]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of the ethnic institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. Our Commission proposes the adoption of the bill. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2018-11-26-240	Thank you very much for speaking to Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian speaker. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by its representatives within the time frame available. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-241	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In the Commission's summary, and also here, I think it is important to mention that there are local governments in Hungary only for the sake of the protocol, and in this budgetary discharge report the municipalities also appeared in a significant extent, but I would also like to say in the minutes that it was also about the financial performance of the municipalities, since they represent quite a significant part of the budget, and there is a municipality around 3180. I would like to make a general comment in one of the debates, but I think that I would like the Secretary of State to respond to this -: the Public Finance Act in the municipalities requires that they may adopt their budget for the following year after closing. We are now discussing the closure of the Hungarian state, the report on the budget for 2017 by adopting the state budget, so we have basically adopted the budget without knowing how the previous year has been completed, with loss and profit. A local government can't do this in 3180 places in Hungary today, because it could cause serious problems about how this happens. I'm just going to mention that as a comment. The other thing that is extremely important is that it has not been said, but at the same time the municipalities are not in such a good situation as this huge thick multi-volume material itself reports, and it is important to see and know this because the municipalities are splitting up: there are municipalities with so-called tax powers, they are taxpayers, for example, the Klebelsberg Kunó institution has not said that, although this is a rather important item that we pay solidarity tax, who is on the list of tax powers, this represents 167 such municipalities at the moment, and in essence these municipalities are financing the municipalities, cross-subsidisation is taking place, which are not able to operate their own system of institutions. I was mayor until April, we had to pay a so-called solidarity tax of HUF 607 million for this year, from which they operate the Klebelsberg Kunó institutional system. For the capital, because we are in Budapest, the capital is worth HUF 10 billion in this solidarity tax, which must be paid. So if it's to this extent... And this is a woman, because our starting year was much less, it was just two hundred and sixty-some million, now 607 million, and next year there may be 1.2 billion solidarity taxes that the municipalities have to pay, and now I have to mention this not only on behalf of a municipality, not only on behalf of the Municipality of Budapest, but also on behalf of all the municipalities. There's another problem that I have time to tell you, and I just have to remember it for the record, and it's gonna be in the accounts. It has been said, and it is right and good that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have been raised. This has a serious impact on the municipalities in this country, because only a minimal percentage of them were financed back by the State. Politically, he's declared that I'm raising the minimum wage, so I'm gonna raise the guaranteed wage, but I'm not gonna add any money to it, and you're gonna take care of it. It's a completely different case, isn't it, when a multi-company farmer or even a small-scale enterprise has to manage it, because it says that I will employ you in the future for four or six hours, and I will pay the rest out of pocket, but in our case, where civil servants and civil servants laws regulate, like the Labour Code, this cannot be done there. So it doesn't say how much it meant, let's say, for Budapest, for a district in Budapest, or for municipalities with tax powers, that the minimum wage increase is declared annually, but at the same time it can't provide a source for it, only a whole insignificant amount, in our case a small amount much later, months later, we even looked for why this little money had come, some of it was very difficult. That's part of the closing account when we talk about closing accounts, that's right... And I'd like to mention one more. In the past, some of the personal income tax was due to the municipalities. It is not very much the case that personal income tax no longer applies to local governments, not only in 2017 but in the years before. And it has not been said that there is a huge amount of tax on cars that we collect in this country in addition to such a huge fleet of vehicles, which was a hundred percent previously held by the municipalities, because they are collecting it, they are administering it, and there is a lot of work to do with it, but only 60 percent of it is only carried away by the Hungarian state. There is much more to mention in the context of the budget, which is affecting the municipalities, most of all, I think the important thing is that at a close-out of the Hungarian municipalities, the management of Hungarian settlements, I think it is appropriate to have a word. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-26-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the time frame available. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who has already indicated his intention to speak at a later stage of the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will respond within the time frame at my disposal and, if I may, I would first respond to two specific points. One is that Congressman Varga Simeon highlighted an important area from the current budgets and from the implementation of the budget in 2017 and, in particular, he said that support for nationalities living within the borders has increased, and I think that this was an important factor, as has been said earlier, and that support for Hungarian communities living outside the border has also increased. I think that it is important to talk about this because it was not only a unique factor in 2017, but also in the previous years we see a process in both areas, i.e. in support of nationalities living within the borders and in support of Hungarian communities across borders, and it is important to appreciate that again in 2017 we can say in a process-like manner that the budget deficit remained within the framework adopted by the Parliament, that there has been an increase above the average of the European Union, and that, thanks to these two macroeconomic factors, the debt ratio has also decreased. The situation of municipal farming in 2017 should also be assessed within these general government processes. Mr László Hajdu's first suggestion was that information on municipalities should be known to the Honourable Parliament. [[18.40]] What I can tell you is that in this vast volume, we present the revenue and expenditure data of the municipal sector and the tasks of the municipalities in various breakdowns. We are doing this by the Government acting in the manner set out in the Public Finance Act, within the deadline laid down in the Public Finance Act, the Government submitted a proposal for discharge of accounts to Parliament and, mutatis mutandis, before that date, to the State Court of Auditors. Therefore, there is no legal provision that the government would have violated. The fact that the closing report is now being discussed by the Parliament and has already been discussed about next year's budget does not create any legal problems. [[Gergely Harvesto: Contrast common sense!]] I'd argue that you don't know the rules. If Members followed the monthly publication by the Ministry of Finance of the revenue and expenditure of the budget, they would have known in the first months of 2018 how the management of 2017 had evolved. If someone went up to the Eurostat website, they could also see that in spring Eurostat validated the deficit and government debt data of each Member State. We knew that the lack of Hungarian public finances remained within the legal framework, as Vice-President Lajos Szűcs said, with or without the Eximbank debate, public debt was also known, so I think that all information was already known about the management of 2017 both at the level of the European Union bodies and at the level of the Hungarian public bodies. Another thing is that the Parliament took place during the autumn session to evaluate farming. As far as municipalities are concerned, I would argue that the situation of the municipalities is not favourable, and I think that one of the key factors is the solidarity contribution mentioned by the Member. We need to know that the solidarity contribution must be paid to those municipalities whose tax capacity is substantially above the national average, and that some municipalities must pay and, where appropriate, pay more than in the previous year, shows that their revenues are also increasing substantially. In addition, the system of solidarity contributions does not detract from the surplus revenue of the municipality from one year to the next, so the municipalities also benefit from the additional revenue, so when the Member talks about the increase in the solidarity contribution obligation of one municipality from one year to the next, it should also be added that the municipality's overall income and income situation have improved. If we look at national figures, I can tell you that the municipalities closed 2017 with a positive value above HUF 500 billion. It is true that the decisive part of this was EU support, but if we remove EU subsidies from the saldo, we see a stable municipal system, which also has hundreds of billions of forints of sovereign debt. I ask you to compare this with the situation you were talking about when some of the personal income tax could have stayed with the municipalities, but did the municipalities or not have any other income? Let us compare the situation in 2017 where the municipalities have hundreds of billions of forints of sovereign debt, when they have a debt of more than HUF 1000 billion, and let us not forget that we can now say the number of stable government management because a debt consolidation of around HUF 1400 billion has taken place, in parallel with the restructuring of the financing system and in parallel with the modification of the provision of tasks. In this respect, the majority of municipalities benefited financially from the transfer of public education tasks, so I must say that the overall budget revenue of the solidarity contribution is much lower than the surplus that the state, the government, has put in the financing of public education institutions after the change in responsibility. Raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage: I believe that this is a positive process, which not only affects it in 2017, but we can talk about wage increases under a six-year wage agreement, which will take place in 2018 and later years, and which has resulted in an increase in the income of people employed in municipalities, and where there was a need to support municipalities, because the higher wages could not be paid by a given municipality, the support of municipalities was again based on objective indicators. I also consider it positive that car tax revenues are increasing, because this is once again showing the prosperity of the economy. As regards the overall accounts, Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, presented the main macroeconomic figures for 2017. I believe that the budget is an economic policy and social policy document, that the implementation of a budget can be assessed with the eyes of macroeconomic analysts and that it can be assessed with the eyes of families. I think that in 2017 we could have a positive year on both glasses and a positive year behind us. Since the turn of growth, not only last year, but before the expansion of the Hungarian economy exceeded the average of the European Union, the increase in real wages was significantly greater than the average increase in real wages in the European Union. The general government deficit remained below the EU's 3% limit, the government debt decreased, the current account was closed with a surplus. At the same time, if we look at last year from the perspective of families, we can say that there has been an increase in the amount of family tax relief, reduced tax burdens, VAT on poultry meat, eggs, fresh milk as well as restaurant meals and internet access, there has been an increase in the amount of family tax relief, and pensioners have also received a pension premium at the end of the year in addition to the Erzsébet voucher. Overall, therefore, the social policy goals, the strengthening of Hungarian families, have been achieved by maintaining the stability of public finances. I think that there are a number of tasks ahead of us, but both the figures seen since the turn of growth in 2013 and the specific figures of the 2017 accounts show that this economic policy can serve both the country's macroeconomic stability and the improvement of the situation of families. I thank the Parliament for its work, I thank the State Audit Office for its work, and I warmly recommend to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of a bill on the implementation of the 2017 budget. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-244	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system for legal harmonisation and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. Government referral T/2924. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed bill No 2924 amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system for legal harmonisation purposes. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill concerns the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision on the one hand and the harmonisation of the securitisation regulation on the other. It also includes minor amendments to comply with the regulation on money market funds, the brochure regulation, the European venture capital funds and the regulation on European social entrepreneurship funds. There is a need for a high level of comprehensive regulation across Europe to protect members and beneficiaries of the pension scheme and to facilitate secure cross-border care. The bill highlights the importance of information for members of occupational pension institutions. With regard to securitisation, the new rules help investors, foster new investment opportunities and provide additional sources of financing in the economy. [[18.50]] Overall, the bill is also forward-looking in the field of occupational retirement and securitisation, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal tabled, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions are now taking place in the time frame available. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary Gábor Gion. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-247	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Coming to the conclusion of the parliamentary debate, I would like to say a few words about the main amendments to the bill. A large part of the amendments contain clarification and codification provisions to facilitate interpretation in order to ensure the internal consistency of the bill. As the most important element of the bill concerns the issue of occupational retirement benefits, the amendments aimed at clarifying the technical use of terms are also largely relevant in this area. At the same time, a number of proposals for amendments to the content have also been initiated, two of which I would like to highlight. The amendment adopted in relation to compulsory car liability insurance premiums is intended to allow insurance undertakings to request contract and damage data free of charge from the non-personal data base established by the supervision of insurance undertakings from the data provided by insurance undertakings. These data can be used by insurance companies to carry out the mathematical calculations necessary for their mandatory fee notification, thus allowing them to calculate more precisely the mandatory vehicle liability insurance premiums. The law on the provision of payment services is affected by the proposed amendment which clarifies that payment accounts, such as the payment account behind the Széchenyi-rest card, may not be regarded as an online accessible payment account under the law. The reason for this is that the account information or payment initiation service cannot be used for the limited purpose of these accounts. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for your attention and ask for the adoption of the bill, together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-248	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain employment laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/2928. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2928 amending certain employment laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of employment policy has been to achieve full employment since 2010. We have managed to get very close to this with so far government measures. About 750,000 people work more than eight years ago, and the unemployment rate is already at a historic low point in the summer: 3.7 percent. Real wages increased again by more than 10 percent in the first third of 2018 following a two-digit increase last year, thanks to the six-year wage agreement. In order to ensure the coherence of legislation, it is also necessary to amend a number of employment-related laws in order to adapt to the changed legislative environment in recent years. This bill serves this purpose. Allow me to highlight some of the most important amendments without the need for completeness. The provisions on training aid are clarified, setting out the scope of the right to compensation and the right to supplement the action and the rules for calculating the supplementary action. As a new element, the law sets out the rules relating to the search for a job for a person in re-integration detention who is serving imprisonment. The rules on teleworking will be modernised and the rules on the qualification powers of the labour authority clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal presented serves well to pursue the employment policy objectives set by the Government, and I therefore ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister of State Sándor Bodó indicated, as rapporteur, that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Enterprise Development Committee. Interventions by Members are now taking place within the time-frame on which the agenda is to take place. I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to take this opportunity. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-26-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their previous contributions and proposals on the bill on which the agenda is addressed, including the votes in favour, as well as the critics. It is clear from the comments that the amendments contained in the bill concern issues that we all consider important regardless of party standing. However, given the differences in implementation, allow me to respond to some of the points beyond what was said in the general debate. Trade union representativeness will be re-established next year. The amendment before us contains proposals on the basis of the closure of the public institution-keeping centre and the establishment of district centres. On this basis, representativeness is not excluded from the calculation of district centres, and, in accordance with previous rules, district centres retain the competence to regulate and implement the establishment of district level representativeness. During the general debate, I also indicated that the concept of trade union representativeness and the collective capacity of trade unions in the field of civil servants were separated. Today, it is no longer up to the existence of representativeness to conclude a collective agreement between a trade union. For the conclusion of a collective agreement, the KJT. The rules of the Labour Code apply also under the scope of the Code of Work. The unions are aware of that. I can refer to the area of education as a specific example, where collective contractual negotiations have started with the establishment of district centres, resulting in a collective agreement being signed at nearly a quarter of district centres. I would like to inform you about the amendment of the Public Employee Act to the collective agreement, allowing for a derogation from the Labour Code, that the provisions in force in this respect are not clear, and therefore the bill sets out how the collective agreement may differ from the rules governing the Code of Labour in the civil service relationship. In addition, I would like to point out that the legal environment in Hungary adequately ensures the protection of the right to organise. Under the principles laid down in the Fundamental Law and the law on the right of association, trade unions and other interest organisations are free to develop and operate. During the general debate, more people addressed issues related to health risks. Discussions have been ongoing since 2015, but employers and workers have not yet reached a common agreement on this issue. With regard to the number of work accidents, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, in recent years, the measures that have been taken have helped to stop the worsening trends in work accidents. [[19.00]] The number of fatal work accidents has decreased since 2016 and this improvement has been confirmed by our latest data: according to our third quarter 2018 data, the number of fatal work accidents has decreased by 10 percent compared to last year's similar period. The increase in non-lethal work accidents also stopped. The improvements in the OSH situation are also reflected in the audit results, which show that both irregular employers and workers affected by irregularities are lower than the figures one year earlier. In the two sectors most sensitive to labour accidents, agriculture and construction, many accidents occur, and the two sectors indicated are therefore targeted and closely monitored by the OSH authorities in the years to come. With regard to the amendment rule on wage subsidies, I would like to point out that the main point of this amendment is that, in the case of wage subsidies, the justified costs incurred in relation to the supervision of the child and the care of the relative can be reimbursed at the employee's request. In this case, we provide support not to the employer, but to the worker who is caring for his/her family, who is raising his/her child, in case he/she is using someone to perform these tasks at home instead of you. The aim is to make it even easier for women with small children and their relatives to work. With regard to the training of the person receiving the childcare fee, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that pre-semester training for this category of persons cannot be supported under the current law. With regard to the definition of the application, I note that the new Labour Code does not include the concept of average earnings and therefore the provisions in force concerning the application cannot be interpreted. With the introduction of the average monthly income as a new concept, the part of training aid relating to the supplement will become predictable and payable. Several of my fellow Members made critical comments on training. Training courses may be launched each year in line with the specific fields of labour demand with training instructors that meet the criteria of the Adult Education Act that are added to the training list. Basically, two courses, preferably based on each other, are eligible for support for third or further training only in the case of applications for training with a background at work. Overall, training can be considered successful as there is a 60 per cent success rate in training from EU funds since 2015 and the knowledge acquired is directly used in the primary labour market. During the general debate, it was proposed that directives on the control activities of the OSH authority should be published as legislation. The authority shall carry out the verification on the basis of guidelines published under the current OSH legislation. The current amendment changes the situation in so far as it has so far been necessary to publish the control directives in the Ministry's Official Journal, which should be implemented by electronic means on the Ministry's thematic website, which is more easily accessible to all. The amendments contained in the bill were based on practical experience. In view of the fact that all the proposals on this issue are linked to employment policy, it was necessary and logical to discuss these amendments in a package. In addition to ensuring coherence, the main tasks of the bill are to consolidate the application of the law and to solve the practical problems that have arisen. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that I have been able to convince you of the eligibility of the government's position. In this case, too, I ask you to vote in favour of this work by adopting the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-252	I thank you, Congressman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. MEPs Csaba Hende and István Bajkai, Fidesz Group, submitted T/3252. The Commission's non-autonomous texts can be viewed on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Bajkai as rapporteur that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I do not wish to comment at this stage of the debate. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-254	Thank you. I'll see you later. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, on behalf of the government, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak on behalf of the Government. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I am asking if any of my fellow Members wish to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3252 in front of you. Legislative proposal No.3 contains legislative harmonisation, which was adopted in the previous year in 1952. It is carrying out legislative harmonisation of certain ministerial and implementing regulations resulting from the implementation of law in the form that it lays down the main rules for cost-sharing in the higher level of civil procedure. So now the 2016 CXXX. in law, in the new civil order, the rules governing the cost of pre-direction, which were previously regulated at ministerial level, are laid down. This is a legislative harmonisation and preparation and recognition of legislation in accordance with the legislative hierarchy. Thank you very much. I have nothing else to add. I ask for the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-26-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2010 CXXX on legislation. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Law to the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/2939. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2010 CXXX on legislation. T/2939 on the amendment of Act T/2939 relating to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, not in favour, with 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the proposal before us is to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the amendment of the basic law adopted by Parliament on 20 June 2018. With effect from 1 January 2019, Article 28 shall be re-regulated as follows. In applying the law, the courts interpret the text of the legislation primarily in accordance with its purpose and the Fundamental Law. The purpose of the legislation should be to take into account, in particular, the preamble to the legislation or the justification for the proposal to create or amend the legislation. The proposal before us provides for basic rules to ensure that the justifications are made public. It is very important to note that the proposal lays down as a guarantee rule that the justification does not have binding force, which is intended to prevent the erosion of the primacy of the norm in order to maintain legal certainty. [[19.10]] It also gives priority to the text of the norm that if, even by reason of a preparatory error, the justification for the draft legislation is contrary to the text of the legislation, it should not be taken into account. A further objective of the bill is to facilitate the implementation of content and technical deregulation. In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support this bill when voting. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner indicated that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain criminal law and other related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/2934. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-259	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2934 amendment of certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, not in favour, with 7 abstentions. The purpose of this bill before Parliament is to ensure the coherence of the national legal system and to consolidate and promote the case-law through appropriate technical changes, adjustments and clarifications. It is in the common interest of all of us that our legal system in force, based on the traditions of our nation's public law, should form a transparent, coherent and logical unity. As the proposal stresses, the demands arising from the application of the new criminal law law that entered into force this year encourage the legislator to adapt other criminal law laws to the terminology used by the new Code of Procedure. In addition, the precise definition of certain legal concepts is necessary for the sake of predictable, uniform judgment, thus avoiding the possibility of making very different judgments in similar cases. The proposal before us also responds to this need. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight another very important point in the proposal, which would give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to set up a scholarship. Within the framework of the scholarship programme to be introduced, participants will be able to develop their knowledge and acquire new ones by doing research and practical work in well-known foreign institutions. Dear Parliament, In view of the above, I would like your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask you, Mr Secretary, if you wish to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr State Secretary points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We are now going to hear a speech from a Member. I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of judicial matters and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/2936. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/2936 amending certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. The concept of the proposal before the National Assembly was drawn up on the basis of the feedback of the professionals and their formulated opinions. The demands regarding the application of the law in force since 2017 and the findings made by the Hungarian Bar Association encouraged the professional community to engage in a comprehensive discussion with the government. Dear Parliament, It is the duty of the legislator to consider constructive advice and, if it finds it desirable to support it, to incorporate it into the provisions governing the functioning of that area. It can also be said that the legislative proposal before the Parliament has been drawn up in a compromise with the profession, following the hearing and careful consideration of the practical needs of the day-to-day work. The proposal envisages amendments to a number of different laws on judicial matters. The fact that, for example, a newly entered civil order, the application of a Code of Criminal Procedure or a re-regulated company or bankruptcy proceedings can be faced with minor difficulties in practice is a reason for this. In this case, it is up to the legislator to amend the problematic provision in order to answer questions arising from practical application. Dear House, To sum up, I would just like to point out that we should help the right level of professional work by adapting it to our practical experience and to the needs of the profession, and, after hearing their opinion, by making amendments that are in the common interest of all of us, thus resolving the difficulties in applying the legislation that is to be amended in this proposal. That is why I ask you to support the bill during the vote. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-26-262	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now possible to have speeches by Members. I will ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the presentation of the education register and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/2940. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[19.20]]
u2018-11-26-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2940 on the Education Register. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 25 votes in favour, 3 against and 6 abstentions. The adoption of the bill is necessary because the GDPR, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, will apply in Hungary from 25 May 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, it is necessary to establish a single education register because by setting up a lifelong learning strategy, the aim is to ensure that people's educational careers can be uniformly monitored from primary school to higher education and language exams instead of the current fragmented registration system. Ladies and gentlemen, The present bill also contributes to the reduction of government bureaucracy through the establishment of the education register and provides data from the sector registers it manages in the course of its operation to the conduct of the administrative procedures of the various public administrations, from family support matters to official matters relating to health insurance law. Ladies and gentlemen, The present draft law is supported by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, because the establishment of the educational register will result in a qualitative increase in the safe management of personal data, the acceleration and more complex fulfilment of data provision, statistical, data analysis and research availability based on a full educational life. I ask this House to also support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-264	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Not now.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he is likely to make use of this option at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to Ms Erika Kissné Köles, Slovenian minority speaker, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. Here you go, Madam Speaker.
u2018-11-26-265	Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Hvala za besedo! Spoštovane Poslanke in Poslanci, cenjeni Državni zbor! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, T/2940 was held by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 6 November 2018. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. During the detailed discussion, the Committee noted that no amendments had been tabled to the bill. During the in-depth debate, the Committee itself did not intend to make any further amendments, nor did it submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. At the same time, there are more than eighty schools in Hungary, which have been maintained by national authorities, and almost three hundred other public educational institutions have been subject to national education and education. Nationalities also provide pedagogical professional services and have a professional advisory network. Therefore, the importance of ethnic education transcends all segments of education in Hungary, and consequently it also has a place in the education register. In line with the relevant provisions of the Data Protection Act, the National Rights Act, the Parliament's Committee of Nationalities in Hungary will also initiate the presence of intensive ethnic identification in the educational register on which this bill is based. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-26-266	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to have speeches by Members. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No, thank you.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/3294. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-26-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3294 on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 30 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. The bill concerns several laws. It contains the necessary amendments to the law on national higher education and certain legislation related to the regulation of higher education, based on the experience of law enforcement. The proposal makes it possible to exceed the 65-year-old age of rectors in a specific case. If the applicant has not yet reached the age of 65 on the day of the application for rector, but has completed it during the tendering period or the tender period, he shall be reliable for a maximum of three years. Furthermore, on the basis of the proposal, the student normative will increase from HUF 119 thousand to HUF 166 600 by 2020. This will result in a 40 percent increase. This corresponds to one of the key points of the series of negotiations launched last year with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill also raises the number of state scholarships who can be admitted to doctoral school, i.e. from 2020, instead of 1300 people in previous years. This step will broaden access to the highest level of training, thereby promoting an increase in the number of highly qualified and the replacement of higher education institutions by teachers and researchers. In addition, by updating the law, the administrative burden of students and students will be reduced. Follow-up of the obligations of students supported by the Hungarian state scholarship with this form of training will thus be simplified and made more transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Legislative Committee supported it, as I said in my introduction, I ask this House to support it in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-26-268	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I do not wish.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now possible for representatives to take part in speeches within the time frame available. I'm asking you if you'd like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on measures resulting from the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union H/1492. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. [[19.30]] The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-26-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We were very sad that the Committee on European Affairs rejected the inclusion of our proposal for a decision. The essence of this is that the Hungarian Government must take effective measures as a result of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union. It may be known that the agreement on Brexit has now been signed in Brussels, but the form in which the British Parliament will approve it is still questionable. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Britain there are over 100,000 Hungarians, including students and workers. Whole families left Hungary and took up work in Britain. It is very sad that we do not see any meaningful comment from the Hungarian government on the influence of the Brexit on the Hungarians living in the Great Britain, what measures the government is taking to ensure that Hungarians living outside can continue their studies and continue to work properly. We find it very little that in the pro-government press, there are only a few half-phrases about this. Therefore, we submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Hungarian Parliament, which is still very current. In essence, Parliament believes in this and calls on the government to stand up for the Hungarian people who live and work in the United Kingdom. After all, Brexit can have a very serious impact on their lives and have very serious consequences. Furthermore, it is clear that all necessary political, economic and commercial decisions must be taken by the government in order to reduce the negative effects of the Brexit. In addition, it is clear that Hungarian students and students studying in the UK can continue their studies undisturbed after the Brexit. In addition, the National Assembly and the Hungarian Government must consider it a priority to ensure that the necessary and proportionate sustainability of the social benefits of Hungarians working in the United Kingdom is maintained. There is a clear need for the Hungarian Government to negotiate with the British Government and report this to the Hungarian Parliament. We can't hide this whole question under cover. To this day, the Hungarian government has not given an account of how it will stand up for more than 100,000 working students, workers and Hungarians who had to leave Hungary because they could not do their job properly at home; or they had no choice because of the extremely low wages in Hungary but to go abroad to work so that they can maintain their families, or don't give to God, they can repay their credit. We are talking about a very important issue, and the government has not taken a position on these issues, apart from a half sentence, to this day. So we also ask the Hungarian Parliament to include this series of proposals for a resolution. I think it is absolutely outrageous, and I think that both the pro-government representatives and the Hungarian government have issued a certificate of how little they represent the interests of Hungarians working abroad, that when we are discussing the inclusion of this proposal in the series of subjects, there are not any pro-government representatives sitting in the benches, and there are not any people here from the government. I think that this in itself is an example and shows that Hungarians working abroad cannot count on the Hungarian government in the same way, they cannot count on the representatives of the government, as unfortunately Hungarians working here in Hungary cannot count on them. By refusing to take part in the debate on this important issue, the debate on the subject series, it clearly shows that Fideszes-KDNP MEPs only cared about the Hungarian people as long as they had the 8th of April election, and subsequently they do not represent the interests of the Hungarian people and workers here in Parliament at all, but they represent only and exclusively the private, business or party policy interests of Fidesz, KDNP, where they are currently residing. It's outrageous that they're not here on a subject like this.
u2018-11-26-270	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the factions want to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group. Here, we have a two-minute window. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It is indeed a political curiosity that, at such an item on the agenda, the opposition entertains one another on such an important subject without being represented here by the pro-government representatives. It's quite shocking, quite amazing. After all, there is a proposal for a resolution on the agenda that concerns more than 100,000 Hungarian compatriots who have fled this country from the economic policy of this government and the former governments, and have sought their prosperity in Western Europe in general. The Brexit negotiations, as stated in the resolution proposal, are truly chaotic, and although there is finally an agreement on the table that the parties have negotiated in Brussels, it is doubtful whether the British Parliament will vote for this in December. At that time, the British government itself may fail, and even in Britain, a new vote may take place, a new referendum, and even the unity of Great Britain may be disrupted. In this situation, the Hungarian government and all the responsible governments in Europe have seen a very strange emergency scenario, and it would be their job to have the European Union negotiate with Britain, and they are conducting the Brexit negotiations, but each country should have a kind of emergency scenario. Primer Hungarian interest is that we try to represent their interests by standing up for the Hungarians there. And if Hungary is too small or too few, then it will find allies in Eastern Central Europe who are in a situation similar to that of Hungarians out there, and with whom it would be possible to join forces for the sake of the countrymen who work outside. Such are Poland, the Baltic countries, the Czech Republic...
u2018-11-26-272	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-273	... Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria. With them, national interests could be represented. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-274	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we have been working in a time frame for two minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-275	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State and Minister, in their absence. What I would like to say on behalf of the Democratic Coalition is that we support the inclusion of this proposal on the agenda, and we think it is important that there is also a substantive plenary debate on Brexit and on the Hungarian agenda in Parliament. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is arriving in the Chamber. Applause for the opposition.]] In particular, we welcome Mr. Congressman and we are reassured that we do not have to spare the government side. So we support this proposal because Brexit represents a very serious and very significant change in Europe's life. It shows what happens when national selfishness and stupid anti- Alienism prevails in a country, even with a very narrow majority. To be able to deal with this problem in substance, we need at least that, and such a debate in Parliament may be suitable for us to face in substance what caused this serious situation. For example, if the Prime Minister participates in such a debate, or at least someone from the government, we will be able to tell them that there is no misunderstanding, the migrant from whom Britain was to be protected by its Brexit supporters, our countrymen and Polish workers. Brexit was directed against them, and against them was the incitement that led to a decision which would cause serious damage not only to the European Union but also to Britain. [[19.40]] You put Britain, the United Kingdom, in a position where there is no good solution anymore, and you are trying to solve a wrong solution. This debate is also very important to draw the government's attention, to play with fire, when it tries to determine the Hungarian interest against Brussels, to play with fire, when it wants to gradually drive Hungary out of the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-26-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-277	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we support inclusion in the series, all the more so, because, as the Congresswoman said, we are talking about nearly 100,000 people. In particular, I raise my voice because of the social interests of students and workers studying there. I also agree with the presentation point on the need for the government to adopt and bring it to Parliament in the near future. The more I mention this, please, because the time is running out, because there is no time: practically in December 2018 the British Parliament will decide on the exit agreement, and in January-February 2019, that is on us, the European Parliament will also decide on the agreed exit documents, and I am aware that by 29 March next year, every transitional measure that is for a total of two years will have to be taken and the whole process will be completed. So I think that, if at some point, there is a place here for us to discuss this issue and concrete measures by the government, discuss this with the opposition and the social organisations to which it belongs, including the Hungarian trade unions, because, as I said, we are talking about thousands of university students and nearly hundreds of thousands of employees and their family members. So we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking if any of my fellow Members would like to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Congresswoman Márta Demeter if she wishes to reply. [[On the mark of Márta Demeter:]] Yes, you have a two-minute window, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-26-279	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support of opposition representatives on this matter. It is really a matter of life that Hungarians working and studying in Britain do everything in their power to ensure their conditions are guaranteed. Of course, we will do everything we can to ensure that the conditions in Hungary are finally in place, for which it is worth coming home to the families in Hungary. However, it is clear that the government has a duty to stand up for Hungarians working outside, because it would be an obligation anyway, but many have fled Hungary precisely because of your governance. By the way, I am very much obliged to my fellow pro-government Member, who has come back to the Chamber himself, so that only one pro-government Member can listen to the end of our speeches, because otherwise they have not bothered to take part in the debate on the subject. I think it is clear that the Hungarian government has become unfit to represent the Hungarian people, but we will do everything in our power to ensure that Hungarians working outside do not suffer any disadvantage, and that there are as much conditions as possible in Hungary where workers are valued, really respect families and provide a perspective for young people. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition's benches.]]
u2018-11-26-280	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the III. T/1494 amending Act T/1494 on the need for the creation of a substitute for employment for public workers. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-26-281	Thank you for the floor. In the light of today, I have been thinking about whether or not to talk about debt consolidation in the village of Manfa, but the fate of those living in deep poverty is more important to me. I have already spoken before this House about the need to raise the current minimum retirement pension, and other fellow Members have also tabled such a bill, but, unfortunately, this has not been done, which is why we considered it important to try to help our fellow countrymen living in extreme poverty in a different way, so to speak, since we know that the allowance for employment is 80 percent of the minimum pension, which is HUF 22 800. There are several situations, in several cases, I too have personal experience in the fact that a community service worker is sick, the contract is about to expire, he is out of work for two to three months, and for this period he is entitled to the allowance of 22 800 HUF, which is neither to live nor to buy drugs nor to buy firemen. Therefore, this bill, and we would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the longer term, those who receive 27 thousand forints of care or 20 thousand forints of care will not benefit better, as this income is also extremely low. This is due to those who have already passed the test and have established a percentage of health damage for them, so this is what is available for them. This is no way to make a living, so there is no way to live, so I ask my fellow Members to support it in the presentation and in accordance with the bill, be kind, the inclusion in the series of subjects, if the Committee on Welfare has not done so. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-282	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place, one representative per faction within a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-26-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, in the ranks of the Fidesz-KDNP, only Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is sitting here, and I now feel that we should thank you for being here. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: God forbid!]] Do not leave until this series of articles has been completed, as it is so unpleasant to talk to empty benches. The T/1494 presented by our fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn. I would like to point out that it should be included in a series of articles, given that the government is T/3623. I have already tabled a legislative package on the basis of the increase in the care fee, but this legislation, which our fellow Member, Mr Krisztina, is being asked to amend, is being amended by the pro-government proposal. We can therefore do this by extending the bill tabled by the government, initiated by our fellow Member, to the circle of persons that we must give priority to because of our social situation, and by trying to improve their very difficult fate in some way. I would like to talk about these issues, because these are the reasons why we are here in Parliament. We should not pay more attention to rich people with a strong capacity for interest, but to people who cannot live their lives in quality without support. Both the proposal presented by the Government and the proposal tabled by our fellow Member are a broad social group affected by these problems, and they are worthy of us talking about them, discussing them, linking the two proposals together, and so perhaps the result is what we are sitting in this House for. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-284	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Székely, Democratic Coalition. [[19.50]]
u2018-11-26-285	[[The congressman leans down and manages his microphone in front of you.]] I just don't know what this is about...
u2018-11-26-286	[[Standing up from his seat to the president:]] Well, I'll do it, 'cause you can't find the microphone.
u2018-11-26-287	Well, say it, Scoot, and then I'll say it, okay? Let the Louis beat you to it, okay, and then it's my turn. [[Defiance.]]
u2018-11-26-288	But, excuse me, Congressmen, you're putting me in a very difficult position. [[Defiance.]] It's not a wish contest. Has the microphone wire come together? All right, we're in a technical situation, and we'll pass that on, and Congressman Korózs, you have the floor. I'll let it go. Take care of the technical problem. [[Sándor Székely: Thank you.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-26-289	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this proposal has come here, all the more so, because it has been voted off in the Committee on Welfare and we have been fighting in this matter. However, it was obvious to Mrs Mayor, Congresswoman, that she did not wish to give this opportunity to happy-happy people, but to people who, say, live with chronic, permanent illness, or at least are likely to be limited in work because of their state of health. It is not such a big was ist das as this amount that would shake the budget. The way I see it, some pro-government Members are cutting out this money from the buttocks, because it's 90 percent of the net public employment wage, I think. The MSZP and DK fractions will support the motion. [[Sándor Székely: Oh, thank you! Defiance from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-11-26-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Székely, Mr Sándor, if he wishes to speak. [[Sándor Székely: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-291	Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-11-26-292	Of course, Congressman. Go ahead, it's okay. It can happen to everyone. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-293	[[The representative's microphone is not picked up, so the comment can be heard in a fraction.]] It's okay. Thank you very much for the floor. Unfortunately, most of the speakers in front of me have told me everything. Of course, the DK fraction supports this proposal. I have to say that it is really terrible that we are sitting here on a matter like this and on the following issues, and in fact no one from the Fidesz fraction is here, or there are only one or two of them here to communicate with, but they don't really answer to us. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We need someone now! Defiance.]] That's right, but if... So I think it would help the seriousness of this House if, in the coming years, at least a few people and more would stay here and help us discuss these matters. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-295	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Dialogue is very happy to support the LMP initiative. I think we're here to raise our voices for those whose words may not be heard here, to the high altitudes. I know that this is not a matter of the heart of our fellow government Members, and I know that they do not consider it their mission to work towards solving the problems of the Hungarian people, and of the most difficult people within them. They are satisfied with the orders of well-paying lobbyists. But I am glad that the opposition is increasingly united in the fact that it really shows agreement and takes substantial initiatives to remedy the problems of Hungary and the Hungarian people, starting with those whose daily livelihoods are also causing problems, whose lives have come to the most difficult stages. So thank you once again for the LMP initiative, which we are very happy to support from the Dialogue.
u2018-11-26-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for further speeches, I will now ask Mrs Krisztina Hohn if she wishes to reply. [[On the mark of Krisztina Hohn:]] Yeah. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2018-11-26-297	Thank you very much for the support proposals. I hope that one day I will live in this Parliament with my hair on my head that the only reason why a bill is not rejected is because it is not presented by a pro-government Member or is not proposed by him. [[Lajos Rig: It takes a serious change!]] I would very much like to see once the subject of the bill and its content is assessed, and not who is the villain who dares to present it here. Because we have been sent here by the Hungarian electorate, whom we do so, and we do have a dog duty to speak for those people, as one of my fellow Members, who cannot reach here, are miserable, sick, cold, hungry in their own homes. If this isn't important enough, I don't know what it is. But there may be hope if I present it five or six more times, then, I hope, my fellow members of government will present it as their own proposal, and then perhaps we will succeed. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-298	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the abolition of the H/1936 on the priority health care of state leaders. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue Group, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Fellow Members! The Dialogue suggested that we eliminate the high-priority healthcare of state leaders, eliminate the situation where Viktor Orbán and his colleagues receive very high-quality care for free, while they can, of course, pay private health care with stolen money or even legal income, which is increasingly dependent on all Hungarians who are suffering from illness and do not want to wait weeks or months for basic health care to be carried out. But not only do we want this symbolic gesture, the VIP supply of state leaders to be abolished, but we also recommend that Miklós Kásler, an excellent minister responsible for health care, be advised that when state leaders go to work in a designated healthcare facility... I mean, to heal, although it would not be the last thing to try, say, the work of health care workers. So, if you go there to heal, you'll receive the Ten Commandments first, and rub yourselves with the Ten Commandments, or eat it, swallow it, take it, apply it externally or internally, because according to Minister Kasler, this is what heals anyone...
u2018-11-26-300	Congressman, excuse me. There are also believers in the Chamber. I think I didn't wish to disturb you, and I don't wish to disturb you. I'm sorry, but I think some people have the Ten Commandments that are sacred to them. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] Please don't make fun of him. Thank you very much for your understanding.
u2018-11-26-301	I respect everyone's faith. I was trying to quote Minister Kásler's statement, who feels that following the Bible-based way of life is the path to a healthy life, not the development of a health care system. Then we suggest that this should be mandatory for state leaders. On this subject, my MSZP colleague, Lajos Korózs, will perhaps say that there is also a referendum initiative on the electoral committee, and now fighting for appeal before the Curia, because we want the Hungarian people to have an opinion on whether there is free VIP supply in Hungary today for the responsible state leaders in the health crisis. The MSZP and the Dialogue are convinced that there will be no such care. This is, of course, a symbolic step. It is not about what the pro-government representatives have been asking about, how much can be saved in the public health care system if these VIP benefits are abolished. This is about meeting people's basic sense of justice. If someone beats up Hungarian health during his administration, he does not deserve to be cured free of charge and at a high level in a VIP reserve in the same Hungarian health care system, while Hungarians die for 10,000 people every year because they do not receive adequate healthcare. Therefore, the proposal seeks to remedy this and to draw attention to the fact that emergency care or emergency care, for example, in several hospitals in Hungary, or even general medical care, is simply not available. The system is on the verge of collapse, there is no suitable and suitable network for hundreds of thousands of people. It would be good to put in place first the democratic and free public health care that is available to all, and if it is done with this, we are very happy to support the return of free priority healthcare to state leaders. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Varga and Sándor Székely applaud.]]
u2018-11-26-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[20.00]]
u2018-11-26-303	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal, yes, is now before this House for the second time, and we have supported the previous one, and we will also support it. But if we try this bill, it is very difficult to approach it from the perspective of the pro-government representatives, who emphasize in every medium and media area that Hungarian health is the 21st. In each institution of the century, health development resources that have not been seen in recent years have been revealed, so that if we can take this as a basis, then this bill does exist because it is not mandatory to heal in the Honvéd Hospital, everyone in their constituency has a small hospital, can visit it within the framework of an institution visit, and can get in there, so there is no need to use the VIP supply, which immediately provides a VIP supply in addition to a waiting list and a pre-booking list. But if we go back to the cold reality, we can see either the infirmary or the outpatient care of those rural hospitals, where if we mortal people try to check in, then we realize that a cardiology appointment is nearly six months, a knee replacement for two years, a TEP surgery, which is the surgery of hip replacement, is also two years. So if you, my fellow Members, and my fellow Members, experience these two-year perspectives, then you will have a different way of saying about the current health system and not singing praises about how many hundreds of billions have been invested in health care over the past period, but even if the billions are true, the Hungarian reality is unfortunately very far from what you imagine and are trying to make people believe about the health system. I think that every person in Hungary today is equal, that each person needs the same health care, and that if you have received VIP care so far, we should bring it down to the level of the common people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and try to see what real health care is like. Thank you.
u2018-11-26-304	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to our next speaker, allow me to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice-President Tamás Sneider. Goodbye. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2018-11-26-305	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre László on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-26-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with the Dialogue proposal on behalf of the Democratic Coalition. I would like to give an example of this, which is half-speakable here in this Chamber, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári and my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Rig... I do not say that in his dialogue, because that is rarely the case. It's about Ayka. All is well, didn't the Secretary of State say, referring to me, because I said these things, so there is no need to rely directly on the opinion of the pro-government representatives. I said yes, the work continues, but I didn't tell the tens of thousands of people in Aika's vicinity that there are only three in the hospital instead of eight anesthesiologists in the minimum condition. This also applies to the issue of the proposal, namely the fact that the level of care in health care is constantly decreasing, and that care is being provided in increasingly uncertain conditions and at a lower level of professionalism. I think that this should be the focus, because from the warmth and security of the VIP supply, I do not question the good intentions of my fellow members of the government in this area, perhaps they reach a false conclusion. And if it was already during the campaign period and the password is that Hungary is the first for us! I don't want to ask you which one you're thinking of, at least fill this with content, and be sure that you actually take the risk of going to the general doctor where you belong or healing in the hospital where you belong, you will know what the god of the Hungarians is. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-307	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-26-308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Bence Tordai was right to say that my fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, initiated a referendum in order to ensure that until 30 thousand of our countrymen die every year in Hungary only because they cannot receive the most basic health care, I believe that pro-government politicians should consider whether they should receive a priority VIP supply. Of course, before the electoral committee meeting, this was voted down by the majority of the governing parties, so that this should not occur in Hungary on a question where, if we ask citizens what is most critical, in which the government should intervene, health care is brought first. But I would like to ask you, if the three of you are already sitting here, if you know which group is in Hungary, which will turn to the private supply sector as soon as possible. Those families that have children, because they don't risk their lives to make anything happen. My very personal experience was that my daughter had a rash, and we had to go to the emergency room yesterday, and today, when we went back to the pediatrician, she said that if it didn't go away in three days, she didn't say that we should go to the specialist, but that we shouldn't dare wait for an appointment on a waiting list, but that we should go to a private doctor immediately. Well, fellow Members, this is not why we pay the state health contribution for 20-30 years, or I don't even know what it's called anymore, but we are paying so that we can use basic care to the extent that we can expect in the 21st century. In the century, and, fellow Members, you can go to the private sector for a good salary. But the state leaders... [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Congressman, Varga-Damm Andrea said thank you for being here. You don't have to thank me, it's your duty to be here, which is why you get paid, and state leaders get paid to take measures for families, not for families. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A statement from the opposition: Yes! Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-11-26-309	Thank you. Congresswoman Timea Szabó has applied for a speech. I would like to point out that that would be the final word from the author's side... [[Gergely Harvestó: No, no, faction comment! Szabó Timea: This is still the faction comment, because instead Bence Tordai presented the proposal!]] Okay, let's do this as a faction... [[Szabó Timea: The leader was not here at the time.]] All right, good. But then you'll get another chance... [[Szabó Timea: I put a few months old kid to sleep at home, I'm sorry. Intercoms. Szabó Timea: Really!]] I have to add that after me-gint you will have the opportunity to comment for two more minutes, but... [[Intercoms.]] Okay, fine, I'll give you the floor in two minutes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-26-310	Thank you. As my opposition colleagues have said here, this proposal, the proposal I have tabled, is nothing more than to confront state leaders, Viktor Orbán and his associates, with the amazingly dramatic state of health. I am convinced that the government is not doing enough to improve patient care because they simply do not see what is happening every day in decaying hospitals. If they were faced with the fact that their children had no normal care, that if they had to wait eight hours in emergency care, that if they had to wait two years for a hip replacement, that if they had to go to nursing and medicalless hospitals to try to heal, Viktor Orbán and his government would probably come to their senses and actually put back the 700 billion forints that the health care needs. But to do that, we're gonna have to cut off their V.I.P. supply so they can face reality. This is part of my proposal. The other part is that Miklós Kásler, who is responsible for this area, recently said that the Ten Commandments do not cure the various diseases by 70%, but now by 85-90 percent. If that is the case, let us help the state leaders to heal faster, and I suggest that, in the event that they enter any state health institution, they receive the ten commandments in the first round, and, as my fellow Member has said, or smear themselves with them, or read the Ten Commandments. [[Peter Ungár laughs. Mr. President, what is this? Péter Ungár to Lőrinc Nacsa: Leave him alone!]] See if they can get better. If this cure is successful, you can think about its wider application [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] But if it doesn't prove successful, maybe they'll come to their senses again and put the stolen money back into health care. In the second round, if these ten Commandments do not prove sufficient, these state leaders may receive medication or other normal care in two to three weeks' time, not until then. I submitted this proposal so that you can finally come to your senses and put the money back into health care and guarantee the safety of Hungarian people in patient care. Thank you. [[20.10]]
u2018-11-26-311	Thank you, Congresswoman. However, I would like to ask you now that Bence Tordai or the congresswoman will respond to what has been said. If neither of you can move on, then we can move on. [[Szabó Timea: I think we should keep moving.]] It was my duty to ask. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[Dr. László Varga: Government Station?]] The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide to ban the six-day working weeks by amending Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code T/3043. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-26-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue suggests that there should be no more six-day working weeks in Hungary. We recommend that, after long weekends, we do not have to work on each Saturday's vacation days, no more truncated weekends, and I think that in the year of families, it would be a very nice gesture from the supposed family-friendly government to ensure that people spend at least two days a week with their loved ones, if they so wish. Only this year, in December, there are two such Saturdays to be worked out, when practically six days a week are required during the Advent period. I don't know how this fits with your worldview, or if we had to rephrase this situation even more radically, I would say that this is the remnant of Communist Saturdays when we had to work on Saturdays, although it is supposed to be for higher and nobler goals and not simply for employers' profits. On the basis of a large-scale research, 85 percent of the people support the proposal, but I would also say that 99 percent of the people should support it on the basis of their interests, because it is really only in the interest of turbo-capitalists, the capitalists, to work more Hungarian workers. In fact, if you think about it in the longer term, neither do they, because the Hungarian workers are very overworked, exploited, eviscerated, and can be seen by their health indicators as well. Among the Hungarian people, a number of different types of stress disorder have spread, and the mortality figures of the Hungarian population are also very bad. Women and men die very early in Hungary, and a significant part of these deaths, which is not due to shortcomings in the health care system, are often due to lifestyle and work-related stress. We therefore ask that the Parliament support the inclusion of this amendment to the Labour Code and support the proposal itself, thus demonstrating that it is political in the interests of the people, that it serves the will and well-being of the people, the Hungarian workers, not the will of the capitalists. But unfortunately, when the Fidesz majority rejected the inclusion of the Dialogue proposal in the Parliament's Committee on Enterprise Development, we did not hear much argument, because they did not bother to try to make arguments, and in fact, even for a non-voting, there was little courage, the colleagues indicated with abstention. But when Minister Mihály Varga came in and I had the opportunity to ask him what he thought, whether the highly praised economic growth was robust enough at the moment to take such a really economic challenging step, he said that we might be able to return to the issue of reducing working time in happier, luckier times. Now, unfortunately, GDP growth is only 4-5 percent per year, so they are not happy enough, they are not fortunate enough. Indeed, these are unhappy and unfortunate times for Hungarian workers, especially when, in another bill, not only is it proposed to reduce working time but also to increase it, and a new law will soon be adopted by the pro-government representatives. Versions 1 and 2 of the Slave Act, 1 which pushes up the number of hours to 400 hours, and the other important amendment, which can convert the working time limit into three years' accounting, and an incredibly unfair new bill against their own employees, their own employees, civil servants and civil servants. We can call this the slave law 2.0. So, while Fidesz represents the interests of 1 percent, where appropriate, represents the ordering of German car manufacturers and formulates different versions of the slave law, the Dialogue and I think that the entire opposition, but my left-wing humanist fellows, are sure to support us moving towards a reduction in working time, all the more so, because in Hungary, the average worker works 300-400 hours more than his more fortunate fellow Western Europeans. We want it to be the way to improve the productivity of work, not to increase the number of hours of work. It is not through eviscerating workers that the road leads to a more successful, happier Hungary. Thank you very much and I hope you can support our proposal. [[Szabó Timea applauds.]]
u2018-11-26-313	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Pintér of Jobbik.
u2018-11-26-314	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Well, I would like to say that I should reassure my fellow Member, Bence Tordai, and say that I think that the Fidesz people will also support your proposal, because it is clear that there may have been some misconception when they were present at the committee meeting. For when they also want to take such a despicable measure as the amendment of the Code of Labour tabled by Mr Lajos Kósa and Mr Szatmáry, then every time such a brutal package of measures is proposed, the Fidesz people always give a little extra so that they can still keep the small billing voting camp that will win the next election. [[Nacsa Lawrence Laughing:]] And yes, I can say that in Dunaújváros, for example, where I won the election as a better representative, it was possible to point out that it was not enough to lie across the country and settle the country with George Soros or with the flood of migrants, but, yes, there are people in Hungary today who cannot tolerate your lies without saying a word. Therefore, when you try to give people back what they have stolen over the years, hundreds of millions of people's pockets with a reward check of 5,000 forints, then yes, there may be an opportunity for the Fidesz MEPs to give something extra, even in this case, when they come up with such a brutal amendment to the Code of Work. However, I think that perhaps they too, in light of the fact that something must be given to people from the other side, that if they have taken so much, then perhaps they will support this proposal tomorrow, that if they do not, Jobbik will be able to count on it anyway. [[Delight, applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-315	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-26-316	Thank you very much for the floor. I always wonder when my fellow Members are talking about how wonderful it is to live in this country, and the wages are increasing, and those who retire don't even have to work anymore, and in fact, in the last hundred years, Hungary is on top of it, and it gets better and better for us, and then they keep making laws that go against it, and obviously you've been reflecting on the reality planet. This is also the law we're going to discuss tomorrow, not 250 hours, if possible, but 400 hours, and otherwise it can't be paid. We also know that what you have said so fantastically is how well wages are in Hungary... we know that the Prime Minister has also said that the net wage is already HUF 215 thousand. It's a step backwards because they've always said it's a gross 320, and then they realize it's not that much, it's a net 215. So this is EUR 670, which is basically a shame if this is what the vast majority of people in Hungary live on, who have this average salary, but we know that the salaries are not that big. So, I always wonder when you have to listen to these things because they're not true, it's all a lie, we all know that. You don't, but you actually live in another country, that's all I can say. So, of course, we always support the proposals that would make life easier for the Hungarian people, the lives of the Hungarian people who do not live in your reality, but in the reality where, even if they didn't spend a penny of their salary and put it together... they couldn't buy an apartment in ten years, but they couldn't buy an apartment in 20 years. [[20.20]] So, of course, we would very much like to see less work done by the Hungarian people who are struggling very fairly, even if you are in power at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-26-317	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-26-318	I would like to advance our support for this motion all the more, because I do not understand what is happening here in this House. There must have been some kind of communication disturbance, obviously, because it was not voted at the committee meeting, but it is being used, since they do not go to work. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So now it's obvious that the boys are doing something about it, that we're gonna do something here tomorrow, but we're gonna do it on a script rather than understand what it's about. The point is that the Member has made it clear; please, a recent OECD survey has made it clear that 40-41 percent of people under 65 could have been saved if these people had not been used if they had received adequate health care. This includes the statistical data of workers, which makes clear that those who work in a working order, who work in a continuous working order, the health of those who, the whole physiology of the worker, suffer so much from these continuous work and working hours that, unfortunately, most of them experience retirement age losing their health and, unfortunately, most of them die before it. Fate is that tomorrow we will be discussing a proposal here by the government or by government representatives, which some have already drawn attention to, which is now practically a slave to the workers. I understand Minister Szijjártó spoke today in Düsseldorf, where he said that he was very pleased with the German nationalist, pardon, multinational [[Defiance. Nacsa Lőrinc: Wow! Interview from DK's ranks: Boundary! Defiance.]] corporations, but they're nationalists, yes, so multinational corporations for this motion. I think Peter Szijjártó will get the reward for this. Thank you very much. We support this motion.
u2018-11-26-319	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2018-11-26-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Members, the world is not going to work for six days, and they know it both in Europe and in the world. The problem is that you have no other answer than to eviscerate 600,000 Hungarians who have emigrated abroad than to eviscerate those who have remained here instead of providing them with some perspective, a more livable future, a livelihood, health care, education who have gone out and tried to seduce them back. But you know perfectly well that there's no chance of that, so you're trying to cripple even more those who stayed here. Unfortunately, according to all international statistics, the Hungarians in the European Union also lead to death from cancer and death from cardiovascular disease. This is because Hungarian workers are subjected to incredible stress, extremely eviscerated, overworked. The Hungarian people are one of the most working people in the European Union. It is interesting that the so-called slave law that Parliament is negotiating tomorrow was presented by Lajos Kósa, whose own narrower country, Debrecen, is now preparing a larger investment by the BMW plant. It is no coincidence that he has put forward an incredibly inhuman law, which will now mean 400 hours of extra work for Hungarian workers, which must also be settled within three years, not even with payment, but with the redemption of freedom. He may also be fired or left five times in three years, in Hungarian: they will never be paid this salary. By the way, it is interesting that when it comes to favoring the hotel business of Lőrinc Mészáros, you have been able to accept two extra days off in order to have long weekends in Hungary, in order to go away, go to the top ten thousand still to spa. Yeah, well, earlier. [[Turning to Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Now you're looking at me like an owl, I'm sorry, you don't seem to be aware that before, there was no official day of business on Grandpa, and there was no official day of work yet. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This was, of course, brought for their own business. When it comes to the Hungarian people, the millions who otherwise cannot spa [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time.]] Then you'll be eviscerated. Shame on you!
u2018-11-26-321	I would like to ask Mrs Congresswoman to try to keep up with the time frame. I'll ask Bence of Tordai if he wants to respond to what's been said. You have two minutes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to draw attention to one aspect, and I will again quote Minister Mihály Varga, who, although they did not present this proposal, was kind enough to share with us the effects of abolishing the six-day working week at national level. While various employers' organisations have been alarmed that this could mean a loss of 1.5-2 percent of GDP, I am pleased to report that, according to Minister Varga's figures, a total of HUF 70 billion would be lost annually in the entire Hungarian national economy, which is 0.2-0.3 percent of GDP. So if we can't live with so much one-off deceleration, if it really matters to you that the numbers of GDP growth are raised as high as possible, which, by the way, do not improve the standard of living of the Hungarian people, not the ordinary people, but the quality of life of the small people, but rather the profits of the German large companies, so if you can move away from this, then you can finally do something good for the Hungarians, making up for what they have done to them in recent days, weeks, months and years. So please consider supporting the proposal in case you sleep on it and realize that it is in your interest. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-323	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to increase the family allowance in order to restore democracy and to introduce a monthly special allowance for starting school T/1504. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-26-324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me give the three MPs a little explanation of what happened here this afternoon...
u2018-11-26-325	The voice is missing. [[Intercoms, among other things, the microphone is not on!]]
u2018-11-26-326	Looks like we're getting tired. So what happened here this afternoon? This has never happened before, though, in order not to discuss the opposition's proposals after immediate questions. It's never been like this before. You have now done at the House Committee meeting that the opposition representatives' initiatives have been put in place after the agenda points, so we have not spoken to any Commission reports. You replied by saying that everyone on the government's side had withdrawn and that there were three people in the room. We could ask why this is happening. Well, that's how much you look at Hungarian democracy, and that's how much you look at the voters who voted for the opposition, I might add, there were more than those who voted for you in the 2018 election. I would say to Congressman Nacsa that when he smiles at the support of Fidesz, we know Fidesz, not KDNP. We should simply try to see how much support KDNP has in Hungary, but we know that you do not have the courage to do so. Let's get to the specific agenda. Now I've brought you another national consultation. [[He's showing it to me.]] Imagine, fellow Members, I have not yet received it. Perhaps the post office should be asked what happened, even though I was looking forward to it, and so did my husband, because we wanted to fill it out and send our opinion back to Viktor Orbán. But then let me tell you one thing. He is also missing the question of the health situation, which Hungarian families today consider to be the most important problem. He lacks the question of what should be done about the corruption situation in Hungary. That's what's missing. He also lacks the problems facing young people today about housing, how Fidesz would solve this. [[Nacsa Lárinc: There he is!]] It's not in there, Congressman. He also misses the fact that the Hungarian families are asked whether the family allowance should be increased or not. The last increase in the family allowance was in 2008 in Hungary. That's the benefit I always give you, not the parent's allowance, but specifically the child's benefit. [[20.30]] And at one time, the family allowance system was introduced in Hungary because they tried to eradicate child poverty itself, which was effective at one time. And you can come by saying that the family tax relief you're giving us is good, of course, we've seen over the past few weeks: 90,000 families have been able to use it in recent years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How did you calculate that?]] My honourable fellow Member, because I can see that he nods a lot. This 90,000 is 3.2 percent of the families. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Definitely a great success... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 90,000 families?]] 3.2 percent of families with children. Yeah, yeah, check it out, Congressman. So it has been a huge success in Hungary with this measure. There is a statement that for a young couple... let us calculate, there are almost 3 million families in Hungary, and all we have to do is count, my fellow Member, sometimes it is good to go back to the basics, and we can, because then there might be a lot of things that would fall off, and then there would be no need to think about it. Although it's not like you to think, you just have to push the button the boss tells you. Anyway, these important questions are that the family allowance, which was invented to eliminate child poverty, is not affected by this; 40 percent of it has already been lost in real terms. That is why we have also taken the initiative, which has already been tabled several times by my better colleagues, to abolish VAT 100% on infant and child products, and not to include VAT. In Hungary, we pay the highest VAT, which is 27 percent, and this also applies to child-rearing articles, and especially to baby-care articles. It would be very helpful to raise the family allowance now, and there is also a twist in our initiative: plus a 13th month family allowance, because you have guessed, for years you have been playing the game of transferring the family allowance from September earlier. It is true that there was a year when it was communicated with a double family allowance for families; thank God, they stopped doing that because we warned the families, and the families realized that it was a real scam, because in September they didn't get it. So, there's a lot missing from this paper, and I promised you that until this is done, my opinion on this paper will continue to be this. And I hope the mail will deliver it to me, too, because then I won't have to collect it, but then I'll bring it in and rip it up again. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You can download it from the Internet.]] No, no, thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-327	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Stummer of Jobbik.
u2018-11-26-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to inform the authors, my fellow left-wing humanists, that Jobbik will support this bill and its inclusion in the series of articles. We will support it, because we believe that everything that puts bread on the table of Hungarian families is not only permitted, but also necessary. Since 2010, Jobbik's parliamentary representatives have done everything in their power over the last eight years to increase this form of support numerically or nominally, i.e. the sum of family allowances. So, with you, we agree with the purpose, not the execution or the method. If the Hungarian Parliament were to discuss this and the debate continued on this issue, which I would like to stress once again that we will support, there is still a debate between us on the implementation and the method itself. From the fourth child, we would introduce and operate the family allowance institution in the form of a tax reduction, and not only would we link it to school attendance, but also to close contact with educational, social and child protection institutions. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-329	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-26-330	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Well, Jobbik is in no danger of being called left-wing or humanist after this post. On the other hand, I would like to say that we can support this bill, just because we think that, on the one hand, and perhaps that is the most important thing, that every child is valuable, every child is important, not just the child whose parents can benefit from tax relief. In fact, these children are not primarily in need of state support, of course, I know that it is not wrong for any family to receive state money, but they are the poorest, the most miserable, the most in need, to fall out of the current family support system. They're the last ones to raise their family allowance during the Gyurcsány government, they're the ones you leave on the side of the road who don't care. Single families who are very often forced to raise their children from a parent's income, families where family support is based on community work, families where no parent can work because of sickness or other reasons, these families are in the most difficult situation, and they need the help most. We support this proposal because it basically provides extra help to them, it is important to them. It may not matter to you, whether we raise the family allowance or pay another family allowance, it doesn't matter with your salary, but these people's lives are the surplus of a few thousand forints. That is why I ask you, on this occasion, to take account of the fact that there are not only rich people living in this country, not just fidesz oligarchs and not just representatives, and to think a little bit about the others, and to support the inclusion of this proposal on the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-331	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2018-11-26-332	I am almost certain that the Fidesz Members will support this motion in the vote tomorrow. All the more so, because they know precisely, as their historical studies predestinate them to this, that the social democratic values include in the first place the promotion of universal benefits, and because all children are equal, because of these values, I believe that they themselves have received the broadcast that Congresswoman Bangóné has said here. In addition, I think that, in addition to increasing the family allowance, as the impairment was about 40% in ten years now, this can be replaced. I think that my fellow Members on the pro-government side might have even tabled an amendment if this agenda had been discussed sooner, because they could have included it, and by the way, it would be necessary to index it at least annually at the rate of inflation. The other, the introduction of this August plus one month's family allowance, I think that it would really help families start their school year, and from then on, this proposal will be green tomorrow, and all Members of Parliament will vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-26-333	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2018-11-26-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Dialogue joined and we presented this proposal together with our socialist fellow Members. However, I suspect that if we had presented this proposal alone, we would have been even braver. By the way, we consider this 40 percent increase to be a bit conservative, precisely because of what Lajos Korózs said, that this amount has not been raised in ten years, and because of inflation, it has also seriously lost its value. In the long term, the proposal for dialogue is to double the family allowance by introducing basic income. We know precisely that a transfer of HUF 2500 billion would allow the basic income to be introduced and the family allowance doubled, and the benefits for children, without disrupting the budgetary balance. The problem with your governance, my dear fellow Members, is that as many as you are here, you have no idea what it means that millions cannot put dinner on the table every day. They have no idea what it means to have millions of people who can't properly heat their houses, their apartments, what it means to be unable to buy new clothes for children, what it means to be unable to afford it. You think this work-based work-based society is saying that we are talking about some kind of free-living millions, even though we know that we are talking about disabled families here, we are talking about single-parent families, we are talking about families where sick children have to be nursed, for whom, as my fellow Member has said, this 10-20-30-40 thousand HUF can mean life. [[20.40]] You don't understand, because you spend millions, hundreds of millions, of stolen billions. Let's finally deal with two thirds of the country you've given up because of the work-based society. We're not talking about freeloaders, we're talking about millions of people who really, really need help. Thank you.
u2018-11-26-335	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, on behalf of the LMP.
u2018-11-26-336	Thank you very much for the floor. Of course, the LMP fraction will support the bill. Any proposal that seeks to reduce the burden of Hungarian families and to help them in everyday life is important to us and should be supported. Many people could use a little field practice and visit families, see how Hungarian families live. Of course, there are people who live well, but there are a lot of people who do not live well, they do not live well, and they also care a lot about a few thousand forints. The family allowance hasn't gone up in six years. It's time for it to rise. I know there's been a family tax reduction, it's been introduced, and it's actually explained, but I think it's necessary to increase the family allowance. Although textbooks go free, schooling still costs a lot of money, the child costs a lot of clothes, shoes, school supplies, and everything else that is needed to enable our children to go to school well and have proper equipment. So we support you, thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-337	Thank you, Congresswoman. As the author, I will ask Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He says he wants me. I give you the floor.
u2018-11-26-338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the year of families, as you say, one of the slogans posted on the poster is being a parent is a lifelong adventure. Well, I can say that many people in Hungary feel that this is an adventure, but I'm not sure that literally people feel as positive every day as you think. Of course, the birth of children, I think, 99 percent can be said to be a blessing in a family, and it must be added that one child does not ask to be born, can not say that it is coming into the world or not being born. That is why we have a responsibility to the children. You know, fellow Members, if I try to take this amendment a little humorously, and what is going on here in Parliament, then again I am referring to the opposition's united support for this initiative; I must say that if we look at it in a vote, there are more people in Hungary today to support any proposal that you are making here within the walls of this Parliament, because there are fewer people voting for you than when we are discussing an amendment with conflicting support. It's just not funny. You know, when we talk about kids, I can never take it as a joke. But I often feel that you don't care. For a few ten thousand children, it's very good, you'll get everything, the good education system, the good social care system, the privileges of the health care system, while there's a lot left over. It's the family allowance. That you lost 40 percent in real terms, that's what you should think about. A very important form of support for the child has lost 40 percent in ten years. I can only ask you to consider it. I have one more request, Mr. President, as long as you're here with us, it doesn't matter if you stand up and tell them that you're bak te. Or I don't know, just don't sit here and look at us. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Sorry, Mr. President. Talk to him, will you? It doesn't matter what they say, just speak up. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-26-339	Thank you, Congresswoman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the CXIII of 1996 on the Housing Savings Bank. T/2896. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the rapporteur.
u2018-11-26-340	Mr President, Dear House, I would not be in the position of a pro-government representative who should explain why it made sense to abolish state aid for housing savings. I don't have any illusions that this would happen in this room today, so I don't think we're gonna have a fellow warrior standing up, and he's gonna start a strong justification for why they had to do this madness. In the beginning, they began to justify themselves in a lie, since the purpose of house saving was never to create only new-built apartments. We also have to say that, because of this justification, our sole aim is to achieve in Hungary, with regard to the restoration of the original state, that housing savings can once again be supported by a 30 per cent state aid, and obviously we would retain the ceiling in the same way as before. Then there could be a debate on whether this system is operational, whether it has flaws. I myself could list three errors in the previous housing savings system that deserve to be amended by law or an amendment that can change it substantially. But I have to say, because there's been abuse in a system, no one can feel entitled to terminate this system, doze it, execute it, kill it, because that's what you did. We have asked very specific questions in several types of weapons, in several genres. To highlight an example, those living in condominiums... [[Several Members consult among themselves.]] Excuse me, I'll just wait for the battle to pass. Thank you very much. With regard to the people living in the condos, 80-90 percent of their savings were increased by using some kind of housing savings, either for a boiler change or for a renovation. We find that an alternative is not really available, as CSOK is obviously not going to be used by mass condominiums. We also see that the government is showing amazing amateurism when it says that someday the CSOK may be able to replace the savings of those affected. At the same time, he did not come up with a system of instruments, so he is now starting to think about what will happen in this area. I would like to remind my fellow Members that a lot of young Hungarians have been able to manage and collect their share through state support for housing pre-saving for CSOK over the years. Now, if you will, these people will be pushed into the banks' clutches, as they will either be forced to borrow extra money if they have collateral or can give them a mortgage. Or if they fail to do so, they will certainly fail to gain a home of their own. Jobbik's proposal therefore aims to have a professional debate, once the original situation has been restored, that can eliminate, reduce, but in no way eliminate, the whole system. This is a barbaric solution, the demographic aspects of which are clearly negative, and in the midst of a demographic winter, when Hungary is struggling to keep the number of live births at least at a level, and unfortunately, even this is not possible for the country, it is quite an amazing attitude to reduce and limit any system of support for family or housing purposes. I therefore call for the support of all the factions, not to allow this restriction, to restore the original state, and then to pursue the necessary professional debates. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-26-341	Thank you, Congressman. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-26-342	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to say that we support this proposal. Here Parliament made a decision of a type, behind which there was no professional argument, no social justice, no common sense. It served only some hard - to - articulate purpose that was not revealed. They were trying to get some luxury profit here, and we know that it's the luxury pro that doesn't come from Lőrinc Mészáros or any of the ministers' relatives. Now they're trying to redirect this in some way. It is quite obvious that the abolition of the support of the housing savings banks did not serve any sober, sane purpose, so it is very appropriate that we put this proposal on the agenda now, discuss it and hopefully decide on the restoration of the aid, and then, once you have succeeded, to bring about an idea of housing policy that is a real, meaningful solution and a step forward for young Hungarians. [[20.50]] In other words, instead of going backwards, let us try to help the very many young people who do not have the housing support tools today. That's very cool, and we congratulate you on the fact that, according to you, at least, 90 or 97 thousand families have already used it, only the number of people using the savings fund was nearly ten times that, and much cheaper. So that system helped more people with much less public money. There's no need to eliminate it, but to restore it, and then figure out what else we need. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-26-343	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-26-344	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Then, a month and a half ago, the madness that I had heard before me by my fellow opposition Members. In just over 24 hours, the system of housing savings banks was destroyed, which I think was almost a moment of legal history, because I don't even really remember that a motion was published in the Hungarian Gazette a few hours after the vote on a Tuesday day, which you submitted on Monday's late morning. It is clear from this that there was no time for preparation for the participants, the Hungarian population, to prepare for what would become of the housing savings fund system. Moreover, it is a system that was introduced by the socialist majority of Parliament in 1996 during the Horn government, and since then no government has questioned its operation, even if there were problems with it, legislation has been made several times, and the system has been refined by the governments and Parliaments. That could have been done right now. If they had any concerns about the system, such decisions could have been made. But you practically destroyed the system from one moment to the next. In the debate, they said that they would soon bring something for him. We don't see any sign of that yet. They've partially expanded the CSOK, but that's different, of course, another leg of the housing support system. This was a particularly important leg, and it was a major development opportunity not only for families but also for single people, older people and condominiums, where appropriate. So there is a lack of what will happen in these matters. You have not brought any evidence of a motion before this House. Therefore, we agree with Jobbik's proposal to restore the original state and to make a decision about the future on the basis of a professional debate. I will still argue that the housing savings system is necessary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-26-345	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2018-11-26-346	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue supports Jobbik's proposal. We think it's a real humanist idea. We don't really understand why the Fidesz-KDNP government erased it. This is a simple government failure, they admitted their inability to do real government work, and they were not qualified to regulate an area that they considered not to have worked perfectly or properly. Or this is part of the Orbán package, one of the elements of the Fidesz austerity policy, which tried to take this HUF 70 billion away from the Hungarian people, so that they could then plug it in on all the gaps that were hit on the budget most by stealing EU funds, and that is why the payment in Brussels stopped. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Isn't that right? Then why is there a thousand billion dollars in the current figures of the budget, my dear fellow Member? And if my fellow Member from KDNP has finally shown up, I would like to point out to him the pull of the national presidency member of the KDNP when you destroyed the housing savings fund system in 48 hours. Your member of the presidency has even announced on Facebook that it is now possible to conclude contracts for the last time tomorrow. It's not a criticism, it's a compliment. It's probably the only board member of KDNP who's acted responsibly, and I'm guessing he's been disqualified or recalled since then. The other great government speaker is Mihály Varga, who is liked by some for his quiet, clever words and restraint. He could say that the period from the submission of the law to its publication was still too long, which, I repeat, was about 48 hours, because 140,000 people had the opportunity to use this popular and important support. So it seems that you do not want to support this 1.5 million people anymore, you do not want to improve the quality of Hungarian families' housing. We are deeply saddened to note that. But maybe they've changed their minds over the last few weeks. I look forward to the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-347	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2018-11-26-348	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I thought that I would yell at the microphone when I started, in case I woke up my fellow Members with KDNP and fidesz and looked up from the phone or tablet, but then I realized that it would be completely unnecessary. The LMP supports the inclusion of the proposal in the series of subjects, because I believe that the decision to make the most effective way of self-care in Hungary will be considered among the sins of the century. Let's be honest, the fake activity or blessing that was then done by extending the CSOK only showed that you do not understand the meaning of self-care. What they do not understand is that self-care on the issue of house savings or the issue of pensions should be a coherent, coherent whole picture and that people should be conditioned to live with this issue. I saw you wagging your head, my fellow Member, when I said that the CSOK and the house savings really had nothing to do with it. By the way, the family housing discount requires self-esteem, and the self-esteem in today's interest environment can be set aside by your billionaire buddy and the simple prole in the south of Pest to use the state support you have just taken away. Yes, fellow Members, that's what happened. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank issued a communication stating that, in order to use the part of the CSOK loan, it is very important that the family that gives birth not to the third child, but to the first child, has a self-reliance. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you're upset. I didn't come in for nothing today. I think it's the shame of the world that you've done with this form of savings. And I think that the opposition, but also the government, has the greatest aim of restoring this. Thank you.
u2018-11-26-349	I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana of Jobbik.
u2018-11-26-350	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is amazing that we are already debating the many requests for inclusion in the series of items here in Parliament, and that today's meeting will end much earlier than expected, but there will be no meaningful comments from the pro-government side. They do not argue with us, they do not express their views on any of the proposals submitted by various opposition groups, although these are topics that determine the everyday lives of all our countrymen. The proposal that is now in front of this House concerns specifically the matter of housing savings banks. Although I add that I am not surprised that they do not speak to him now, because even at committee meetings this is not typical of you, they do not usually argue there, and what I would like most is for these meetings to run down in a few minutes, and they do not have to give any answers to the points raised there. And what is particularly amazing is that just today there was an interpellation of my fellow groupman, Dániel Z. Kárpát, to which Mr. Tállai, State Secretary, gave an outrageous answer. Of course, he only followed his boss, Mihály Varga, because he, in essence, repeated the cartel charge, and in general, his words were taken out of his mouth by attacking decent Hungarians who thought that this opportunity should be taken advantage of. It is clear that you have eliminated this with extraordinary and amazing speed, because I want to serve your own friends, so I would like to transform this system. They want to put their friends in a position, that's what's behind it, instead of giving a broad layer of opportunity, which has so far had a very positive impact on everyone's lives, because they have not spent these money for the same purposes as you have put it from the government side. So it was no coincidence that this amazing decision had been made, nor was it a coincidence that they would not say a single sentence about this and the other major cases, even the Code of Work. Shame on you! Thank you very much. [[21.00]]
u2018-11-26-351	Thank you. I will ask Dániel Z. Carpathian, as rapporteur, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-352	Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I would like to thank everyone who has honoured us not only but also the Hungarian citizen with 1.5 million living contracts in a certain market period, in order to at least express his opinion. I would not be in the position of my fellow members of the government, nor would I like to address to the three of you the criticism that I have of the whole government, by the way. Obviously, there's a kind of ban on taking part in a debate, which can only be imagined until the level of interrogation. But let me remember one thing. I myself will have to account for the eyes of my grandchildren at a time when I will probably no longer be a Member of Parliament, and I will have to account for the time that I have spent here, and you will have to do so, regardless of which family of parties we are, which cases will bring to this House. We always try to keep ourselves to what serves the interests of the Hungarian people, and we clearly support that initiative if it is a fidesz initiative, if it is submitted by another party. We didn't actually hear any argument that would confirm to anyone why the promotion of housing savings should be abolished. One relevant economic data, the concept of multiplier effect is obviously known to all of us, and in four years, all the state forints put into this system turn around, bring itself back, and then it starts to make a profit. So from an economic point of view, the government has committed net nonsense, a net self-destruction, with a negative demographic impact. I wouldn't be in the position of those who would have to deal with it in front of their own grandchildren. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-353	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the need for an independent border guard H/3011. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence and Police Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, rapporteur.
u2018-11-26-354	Mr President, Dear House, The proposal from my colleague Ádám Mirkóczki's pen seeks to respond to an absolutely lifelike need. At the end of 2013, at the beginning of 2014, Jobbik's group first expressed its expectations on migration issues. We met a series of conflicts around the so-called refugee hostel in Debrecen during the time when peaceful citizens and motorists were attacked by those who broke out of this institution. That's when we met in the area of Asotthalom what was happening in the border area. First we met the arrival groups of the Albanians in Kosovo, then later we met a much more heterogeneous crowd, so one day we met 30 Albanians in Kosovo accompanied by members of the field guard, and the next day we met 30 people from Congo, typically young people. We have found that the life force found and working on the border is typically low, then poorly equipped. Later, there was a cosmetic change in this system, but we felt the amazing lack of Fidesz and MSZP in 2008 in a large coalition, and therefore the state of absence was created that we could no longer count on an independent border guard. After all, in 2008, this institution was actually terminated by a public agreement, and since then we have seen that when there was a need for greater live power in the border zone, soldiers, field guards, vigilantes, and in many cases district agents have had to serve. I would also like to point out from this point of view that I believe that this service has been performed in an excellent capacity, so I do not think that anyone can make any meaningful criticism of the living force serving there. But perhaps we can agree that it is not necessarily their job to provide border protection in the long term. Therefore, the essence of our proposal is the actual restoration of the independent border guard. Our professional concept in this regard would not be detailed, because it can be found in a special text box in Jobbik's 2018 election programme, and we have laid the foundations for this. Our aim is therefore to be able to work with professional border guards in Hungary, at least with regard to the Schengen border, to have a separate border guard, and in the long term, to return to their place of service by district agents, citizens, or even by field guards. After all, the field guard is a much more complex institution than just walking up and down the border and guarding it. Border protection doesn't mean that much, but it has many other tasks from different depth interventions, to which an independent institution could provide substantial assistance. Therefore, Jobbik's proposal aims at this, and we call for the support of all the factions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-355	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-26-356	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, Our faction has it, so we're going to support this series of articles. In fact, on one of our proposals, one of his colleagues from his group said that he actually did not fully agree with our motion in substance, but he certainly supported that the Parliament should debate it. In fact, I would say, on the basis of the last six months, which has passed this term, that I would be very pleased with an arbitrary opposition motion that would finally be discussed by the Parliament and, where appropriate, we could also debate the opposition's proposals. I think this would be exemplary if, at least in some cases, Fidesz pro-government representatives did so. In particular, we believe that the problems raised in the proposal are real and that they must be answered. By the way, Mr Tamás Harangozó has made several proposals from our group on this subject. As a matter of fact, we consider it possible to deal with these issues within the police, so we do not necessarily think that there is a need for an independent border guard, but once again, we think it is right to have a debate on this. In particular, Mr Harangozó today had an immediate question to the Minister of the Interior about which he had just asked about the number of border hunters, as there was a 3 000 number of promises, which, as it turns out, had managed to fill 1622 with newly completed staff, and it is very unclear what happened to the others. The fact that there's a problem in the area is a good point. The area is calling for change, it can be done in a constructive way in other ways, but this can be achieved primarily by making a change if the Parliament negotiates on this issue. So, of course, we support the inclusion of the series of objects itself. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-26-357	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, on behalf of the LMP.
u2018-11-26-358	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth considering the context in which this bill, which is about re-establishing the border guard, was presented. The crisis caused by so-called mass immigration has been introduced, in an absurd and unsubstantiated manner, by the government, which is worth noting that, in addition to the fact that there are all kinds of rubber rules in the law that have created this situation, it is not a qualified period situation, so it does not include the guarantees that the Fundamental Law can guarantee in a qualified period of time. In addition, it created a very absurd situation by assigning the Hungarian Army, the soldiers, to the work of the police, and, in essence, an unclear legal situation has developed, causing enormous legal uncertainty, and in a situation where the stock might actually have to act, the member of the staff himself could be in a position to be court-martialed afterwards. This kind of legal uncertainty cannot be maintained. In addition, there is a huge shortage of staff that characterizes both law enforcement agencies and the Hungarian Defence Forces. Several things can be a solution to this complex problem, by the way. Let's just say that we should start by following the laws and not codifying them, like the government does. In addition, one of the important proposals for a solution could be the establishment and establishment of a border guard. Therefore, there is a need to speak and negotiate this proposal here in Parliament in any way. By the way, the LMP tried to do this on the Defence and Police Committee, but the pro-government people weren't even willing to talk about it. In any event, the LMP faction supports the inclusion of this proposal in the series. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[21.10]]
u2018-11-26-359	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-26-360	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Resident, [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] The Democratic Coalition supports putting this bill on the agenda. Given the fact that, based on the experience of recent years, it is undoubtedly necessary to consider exactly how to organise and legislate the protection of borders, because although our Fidesz fellow Members and fellow Members of the KDNP tend to falsely claim that this matter is not important for opposition parties, I must say that this time they will also be far removed from the ground of reality, because I believe that there is no opposition party who does not consider it important either to protect European external borders or to protect Hungarian borders. We would like to see this in a different, much more efficient and effective way than this is happening, not only because of what we spoke about this afternoon, but also from the fact that, at present, it seems to have caused extremely great difficulties for the police to meet the challenge of the relatively short intensive period of the migration wave, the Balkan route, which was in 2015, and it is still very difficult for the police to manage, for example, the security of the Ukrainian and Romanian borders in a way that reassures them. We have serious doubts about the organisational solution proposed by Jobbik. We are not sure that this is the right solution, and we also consider it very important to consider in such a debate how the Hungarian border guard can fit into the European border protection system, so that even if we have problems, we can get help, or we can help others. But either way, the point is that in order to talk about this, the changed circumstances and the changed tasks of border protection, it must be a debate. If this is really an important matter for you, then let us talk about it in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-26-361	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm from Jobbik.
u2018-11-26-362	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Mr Tamás Herczeg, Dear Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, Dear Mr Péter Ovádi, 'Cause there's only three more in the benches of Fidesz. I would like to approach the issue from another aspect. When we listened to the new police commissioner on the Defence and Police Committee, I asked him the question, since the protection of the border is not the police's responsibility, and the police's personnel were incredibly burdened by border guards, or by the fence building, that he did not think that the border guard should be restored, because it is a completely separate task, a completely separate science, and training is absolutely different from that of the soldiers and the police. He replied that there was no need for it, because there was no serious migratory pressure anymore, and it was not worth spending that much money on a new organization. Then we started working here in Parliament, and from week to week we were bombed by various numbers by pro-government representatives and state leaders about the migratory pressure in Hungary. By the way, we're going to advertise that we're looking for an on-call migrant because God doesn't want to get in. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] But the point of this is that from week to week, different numbers were always played. There have already been 25 million people coming from Africa, but that would require at least 400 to 500 thousand people to organize it; logistics is also a special science. So I think that, in order to resolve these differences and these contradictions, it would be time for us to really reinstate a border guard, then at last it would not be for the defence and the police, because it is not his professional task, and I feel that the pro-government Members will vote for this in order to come out of this communication disturbance and at least talk about this issue, because it is only a series of subjects. Then they may be able to admit that there is a migrant pressure or no migrant pressure now; in any case, border guards are a major professional task in the lives of all countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-363	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-11-26-364	Mr President, Dear House, If you like, then we are really setting up an important campaign stage for Fidesz-KDNP, as you can recreate your own migration position. You can defend it on any points that may have been attacked, and I can even promise, on behalf of my own faction, that if this debate takes place, it will not be about Gruevski, who had to be brought into the country from somewhere and for some reason. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] I would like to make it clear that, since this is a long-term national strategy goal, we will, of course, not joke about this debate even if it is established. I still hope that this issue can be approached on a professional basis. Border protection is an area of expertise that I believe concerns quite a few Members of Parliament here. Therefore, it is worth listening to the experts, and it would be worth conducting a consultation that involves those who serve there as well. We did this in the spirit of a genuine national consultation, so in the border zone not only with those involved in border protection, with vigilantes, with field guards, but also with the migrants arriving themselves, we talked very widely about where they come from, why they come, what motivations move them. We've been perfectly familiar with the operation of your team leader's system in a matter of days. The acquisition of this knowledge is open to all, and I believe that on similar professional grounds a debate can be held that completes border protection and puts the living power of border protection in a much easier position than it is now. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-365	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, after the agenda, Mr Tamás Herczeg asked to speak with the title Békéscsabán, on two wheels. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-366	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think a lot about the part of the work that's being done here in Parliament. I am struggling with questions about the quality of this, and rather about the nature of it. There may be an opportunity for us to discuss this. I'm only saying this because Ildikó, Ildikó Bangóné mentioned it, and many of you mentioned why we do not speak or think about certain issues. Maybe there'll be a time when we can talk about this. [[Márta Demeter: You should have spoken then.]] That's all I wanted to say. Now another part of the work, the speeches after the agenda. I was in a good mood to say this to you, so I'm going to do this now. That's the title of Békéscsaba on two wheels. When we design, develop and create cycling routes and cycling facilities, we do more than lead our children and ourselves towards a healthier lifestyle. We do more than make transport safer and faster at local level, or we increase tourist attraction, or we provide leisure activities for fuller recreation, more efficient recreation, and we do more than make daily work better and more comfortable. It is about the sum total of all these tasks, goals, and the interrelated and reinforcing effects. I think that Békéscsaba, Mihály Munkácsy, the sausage of Csaba, the sausage festival, the Csabagyöngye grape, the Wenckheim legacy, the athletes of sports history, the vibrant cultural life, the state of public safety, the role of agriculture and the unique performance of the printing industry, can also be proud of the achievements in cycling and the planned developments. Since 2008, we have developed a cycling concept and the work of dedicated professionals strengthens the achievement of our goals. In addition to the local sacrifice, the operational programme for urban and territorial development and the programme "Modern Cities" provide significant support for the expansion of cycling facilities. Békéscsaba now has a 55 km long bicycle ride, which is already above average among settlements with similar characteristics, and this number will exceed 95 km by 2020. Nor is it to be neglected that an existing section of nearly 20 kilometers, built many years ago, has been renovated and has now become quite poor in quality. Due to favourable and constantly improving conditions, the number of people who use bicycles on a daily or weekly basis is constantly increasing in the county seat. The emphasis on development is shown by the fact that a budget of approximately HUF 6 billion is now available to increase bicycle traffic facilities and additional facilities. [[21.20]] We only make it easier to go to cycling work, urban transport with nearly four billion forints of resources from the TOP, and some of the MVP's developments help to get from the agglomeration area to industrial areas. According to my own calculations, we are making transport safer for about 40,000 people, and what I think is particularly important is that we are making transport safer for around 6,300 children, for whom there are, by the way, many different road safety actions organised by the institutions and civil society organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention one more important point. I am convinced that cycling tourism is not only justified in the mountains, but also in the Great Plain, because the differences in levels for our children, non-cultivators and older people are not pleasant recreation, but also a serious physical strain. In line with our previous developments, Wenckheim's hiking and cycling paths linking our tourist attractions, attractions and gastronomic prides from more than two billion forints. With this route, we want to connect our castles, free snakes, turtlenecks, pósteleki and the gyulai, so as to give visitors the opportunity to explore the sights of the area by bicycle and enrich them with a lasting experience in the future. Hungary is one of the most frequently used nations, and according to surveys we may be the third, and Békéscsaba is also one of the leaders here. In Békéscsaba it is around 30 percent, so I'm happy to say that the peaceful county seat is very good in cycling terms. The people who come by [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] or those who come to us, please ride your bikes in the valley of Körösök, or, if the situation so happens and there is a way, support our efforts in this direction. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-26-367	Thank you, Congressman. Tamás Pintér, Member of the Council, asked for a speech after the next agenda. What about the promises? What about the duna new town air? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-368	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, A recent survey shows that air pollution rates have reached critical levels in major industrial cities, such as Dunaújváros. However, the problem is complex: the weather and environmental conditions, the old buses of public transport, the booming increase in the number of cars and the older cleaning equipment of factories can all be responsible for the situation. There is something we cannot influence, but there are circumstances in which the government can help. Many people in my beloved town of Dunaújváros have complained about the poor quality of air. Before the elections, there were some fidesz promises that could have improved the problem that would have occurred year after year, over and over again, because within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" they promised to replace the city's old, polluting buses with modern electric buses, thereby reducing the high carbon emissions. Unfortunately, this was just a campaign promise, because none of it has been implemented. However, there are other problems: in Dunaújváros there are several heavy-duty companies, the emission of pollutants from factories is a huge burden on our air cleanliness, there are many industrial chimneys in the settlement, whose environmental equipment is already outdated and does not meet the needs of the age. Unfortunately, the municipality has not acted on this issue for years and even hinders constructive dialogue. Unfortunately, because of their power arrogance, they didn't even seek the management of the ironworks, so we can't expect a short-term or long-term solution, since the management of our city hasn't been doing anything for years to breathe cleaner air for the inhabitants of our city. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Clean air is a fundamental right that we cannot deprive anyone, especially those who work in the Hungarian heavy industry or live in industrial cities. It would be necessary to keep the promises they made, since the air is not only sucked by right-wing or fidesz, but by everyone. I would ask you to work together on a programme that urgently improves the air quality of industrial settlements. Undress at least on this issue the division of the pro-government and opposition, because clean environment and clean air are our common fundamental interests. I promise you, we'll be partners in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-369	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs asked for a speech after the next agenda:. Railroad closure. It's a country destruction. Wall-breaking. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-370	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is finally time for the governing parties to decide what principle they follow in the areas of Community transport, rail policy and rural policy. The principle that was proclaimed or lied to in opposition, namely that the state does not exercise favor with its rural citizens when it operates the railway, but does it fulfil its duty, or does it follow the principle that anyone who does not drive a helicopter is worth so much? The thing is, it's the latter that seems to be happening. Based on what? In recent days, the intention of the MÁV Start to eliminate traffic and line 114 on the line 113 between Nyíregyháza and Nyírbátor was a huge scandal, and this is the Mátészalka-Csenger line. In the timetable published on 10 November, there was not even a word about this, which was actually found on the 15th when public procurement was announced to replace rail transport by bus. This was discovered on the 18th by the Publicity Crowd, when the bomb, the scandal, which led to a few days later, on the 22nd, the ITM, in fact, to retreat from all this shameful filth, and, as it stands, it seems that these railroads can be saved. But let's see what kind of traffic is going on. Alibi transport: these trains are barely bumping, because there hasn't been a real renovation in decades, and it should also be seen that this alibi transport means two or four pairs of flights a day, which is far from satisfying the needs of the travelling public, so there's no reason to wonder that the people living there don't really want to use it. If we were to ask if you'd saved up on this lockdown, we'd have to see that you didn't. Although MÁV Start would have saved perhaps 35 million forints, the total Hungarian taxpayers would have paid 65 million forints for this closure, and we also need to see that the service would not have improved either, as bus replacements may have been even slower than current rail transport. The fact is that they follow the same communist method that the equally outrageous, outrageous and rural-destructive railway concept was announced in 1968 about the closure of the sidelines, as a result of which rural sidelines were closed in the 1970s and 1980s. I live far away from Nyírég, but the southern Somogy landscape could also tell me what this caused, when the social policy consequences of these sidelines were not taken into account: Barcs and Nagyatád were removed, the section between Barcs and Kaposvár was stopped, otherwise the link between Szigetvár and Kaposvár was stopped; all of this has been in that region ever since. This was continued, by the way, well coordinated, so to say, with the national settlement network development concept of 1971, which said that two thousand settlements in Hungary were in fact without a role, and thus sentenced to faster or slower mortality, the state of being buried alive. Then came the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government after the change of regime, when in 2007 and 2009 the Gyurcsányek and Bajnai closed 38 railway lines on a total of 1,300 kilometers. Indeed, Fidesz reopened 11 of these at 400 kilometers, but not at 900 kilometers. And if we look at the schedule for 2012, we can see that four hundred of the three thousand flights have been taken out. What is it if it is not rural destruction, fellow Members of the Government? What will happen to the program "Modern villages" anyway? What about the need to eliminate poverty there, to prevent migration? What about the need to provide people with viable access to public services? What about the mentality that you're supposed to say you see only the extra profit of your oligarchs in railway construction and railway development, in the case of a major case, say, the Ripper's family? These questions should be answered, as well as whether they really want to eliminate the sidelines around Szolnok and Miskolc, Békéscsaba, Székesfehérvár, Zalaegerszeg, the Pope and Komárom, as well as the sidelines around Pécs, because if this happened, the death sentence in the Hungarian countryside would be equivalent to what we cannot and will not accept here in the benches of Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[21.30]]
u2018-11-26-371	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2018-11-26-372	Mr President, Dear House, How much longer? The plans of our series "The National Asset Manager" were overwritten by the government's announcement, which seems to be part of a comprehensive austerity package on the part of the government, as it began with the abolition of the state leg of housing savings, a size of 70 billion; it continues now with the rewriting of the labour code, where, in fact, the government provides the mass, health and, where appropriate, the future of Hungarian workers in the interests of foreign interests in a context where the number of accidents at work has increased from 17 thousand to 23 thousand since 2010, by further evisceration of the workforce, the government is literally playing with lives. At the same time, the government's upturn to the National Asset Manager revealed that the former owners could get their properties back. They tried to make this a positive news, a positive news that would give the government some kind of favor, a blessing to give back their property to those affected. Let's take a look behind the process. The thing is, so far, anyone could buy back their property within the asset manager's construction, a five-year window period worked on this, if they had the money. But if we look at those who are inside the asset management system, typically they spent more than 50% of their earnings on various loan repayments, we know very well that foreign exchange credit and other debts often go hand in hand, so the chances of a customer becoming a customer within such a structure were minimal in a short time. At the same time, this option has already been made, so none of this has been returned to the government. However, it can be seen that the proposal that the very printed rent paid in the course of the buy-back would be included in the purchase price also appeared as a kind of government favor in the press, but it is also a very shady slip: in view of the rents and the average square meter prices, we can talk about a sum of approximately HUF 20 and 40 thousand per client, which would appear as a concession on the discount page, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the return of these properties is also carried out at the originally established usury price, so it is not at a fair price after the cleaning of the contract, which would be the result of a fair exchange rate, not from the market, and therefore, from the very increased amount, a few ten thousand forints, and this is set as a favor, at least reprimand and other points of view, a stomach-turn. And we also need to tell you what the government would do to these apartments, obviously, here the government must be understood in a metaphorical sense, because it is the asset manager, but it is the government that creates the climate for him. We have to say, who knows he's trying to re-sell his own property, and he's hoping for some revenue, and then he's going to auction to sell the remaining property, so he's going to get an additional income, and thirdly, he's going to make the remainder that can't be marketed, the municipalities are going to make it available. Perhaps we could continue to have a substantive and professional debate on this third aspect, which would be close to me, but at the same time we did not have the opportunity to do so in front of the House. I would like to say that, according to the austerity package, Hungary's Government does not create a rental program, it does not expand the National Asset Manager, but tries to beat everything out of it, generate revenue, and thus keep the current balance of payments at some level with the elements of this austerity package for a few more years. But we also have to say that the biggest historical crime and omission is that the asset manager no longer accepts contracts, wishes to accept more clients, and the main problem is that if we had this paper before us, the system would remain open without a proper budget hat, so without a ceiling, we could say that the various elements of the buy-back could be debated. At the same time, Jobbik received six or seven cases in recent weeks where the client clearly wants the help of the asset manager, but the commercial bank, which is involved in the transaction, does not give the literal permission to do so. Jobbik's primary demand is, therefore, that in such cases it is not the person concerned and that a guilty commercial bank may grant permission to assist Hungary's Government, its parliament, or not, to decide on this in its own jurisdiction, but that it is a condition for the elimination of communications and maladministration around the asset manager and for the conduct of honest professional disputes. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-26-373	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László Horváth asked to speak after the next agenda:. Kékes the top of the country. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-374	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is hardly a Hungarian in this country who doesn't know the name Blues, and if we say so, doesn't know what the height of Blues is 1014 meters, but everyone knows that Blues is the top of the country, the highest point in the country. By the way, 130 years ago, the first lookout tower was built in Kékesen, thanks to the pioneers of the Mátra and Hungarian nature walk, who built a hard-wooded viewer, 20 metres high, and costing HUF 1200 hard. The Blues at this time, 130 years ago, had not been a very well-known point in the country, there was no iconic point in the country, Trianon made it so. Trianon made both Mátra and Kékes iconic, because if we look at the historical coat of arms of Hungary, we can see that the two higher peaks of the three stack were taken by Trianon, the Tatras and the Fatra from the country, which remained the smallest and lowest, from which it became the largest and highest, this is the Mátra. Well, I'd like to say with regard to the crest, that double cross is on a hard pedestal, the Mátra. But since Trianon, everyone knows and knows that name, and I think that every fellow countryman, if he can, has the opportunity and the way, will want to visit this place at least once in his life, but we would like it to happen more than once. Today, the condition of the Blues can be said to be unfairly neglected. I say this despite the fact that in recent weeks the panoramic viewer of the also iconic Blues TV tower has been renewed, its café, and in truly cultural conditions, it is able to receive visitors to Kékes in a fashionable and worthy manner, but we would like this decent and worthy environment to welcome the tourist of the entire region of Kékes, our bikers seeking active recreation or even skiing, nature-walking compatriots and healers, as this high part of Mátra, the High Matra or Upper-Mátra is also an excellent place for the healing of our countrymen suffering from respiratory diseases. We hope, even more so, that this complex renovation of the Kékes, which has long been waiting for itself, will happen, because the government has recently adopted a resolution, and has decided on the preparation of plans for the complex renewal of Kékes. An essential element of this plan is also the fulfilment of a very old, many decades of debt, which is about a lift, a four-season elevator connecting Mátrafüred or Mátraháza to the Kékestő, providing traffic for four years, while at the same time reducing the environmental burden of Mátra and Kékes. Such an investment could be said to be an integral part of the trend that has also been observed and felt in recent times, namely that the number of visitors to Mátra has doubled in recent years and that the number of guest nights spent in Mátra has increased more than two and a half times. Tourism is also a very important economic factor for us in this regard, because tourism is creating jobs in a sustainable and organic way, and it is also very important for our economic performance. [[21.40]] However, I would like to respond to what was said in the previous debate with just one sentence: yes, in the northern region of Mátra in 2010, when we started working, there was a place where we had to face 23 percent unemployment. So much for the importance of a work-based society, and despite all our efforts, there is a place, although unemployment at the southern foot of Mátra has now disappeared, it can be said, but there is a place in the northern part where we really have to face another 10 percent unemployment, and tourism is a very important economic sector for the long-term eradication of unemployment and job creation in order to create sustainable jobs. In short, we would like the Kékes to be able to receive visitors in a decent way, who will want to return to this area, because they think that this place is not only in his name but also in the experience. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-375	Thank you, Congressman. In response to the next agenda, Mr Péter Ungár spoke with the title '8th Queen of the West'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-376	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am in correspondence with Mayor Puskás, Mayor of Szombathely, and I would like to present this to the House. I'm sure Dr. Csaba Hende will hear about this from the record as well as the other cases, and will continue to do his useful work so far. In response to a previous speech, the mayor sent a rather thick and expensive propaganda statement saying that I was false; let's say he didn't say what, and that this publication had the truth. First, I would like to start by saying what 15 other problems were left out of this publication, and then I learned by requesting data in the public interest that it produced more than HUF 9 million in public money. This does not account for, for example, what I spoke about the previous time in Parliament, which represents the environmental problems of the Falco factory, nor does it report how the operation of the Progress complex was carried out, or whether Zsolt V. Németh, Commissioner for Hungaricum, manages the operation of Progress as a Hungaricum. It doesn't tell us how the renovation of the Szombathely market is, it's not as planned. He won't tell me why the renovation of the Arena kindergarten hasn't been completed yet. He won't tell me why the sports field promised to Zanat City wasn't built. It also does not tell us exactly what is the situation with the Gothard Castle in the part of Herény, nor does it say how the operating cost of the recently handed swimming pool, the real relation to what the fidesz majority planned. He won't tell us what's going on with the Hussar barracks, why he hasn't improved, he won't tell us anything about the accident-dangerous, broken or deteriorating Hostel, about the Olad lookout tower, about the MMIK building, about the downsizing of the university's staff and quality, which is in Szombathely. In the beginning, it does not give a complete picture of the state of roads, sidewalks, the relationship between the sub-Mayors and the majority of the general assembly and the changing minority, nor does it account for one of the fifteenth, most serious problems on Saturday, Csaba Hende. The fact is that I would like to talk about an issue in the remaining few minutes, which is also the result of government policy, which affects not only Szombathely but also Vas County, which is also not reported in this publication; that 75 percent of companies in Vas County are currently suffering from labour shortages. This is simply because everyone who can do so works in commute and can earn much higher wages in Austria. But there was also a consequence that we did not expect. In 2016, Mihály Varga announced that the labour shortage should be addressed with migrants from outside the European Union and with migrants from the eastern neighbourhood. Currently, they are mostly Ukrainian migrant workers in Vas and Zala county, Ukrainian migrant workers who are basically coming to Hungary to work further from here. Therefore, the labour market is not stable at all, as these people need to be replaced continuously as they go on to Austria, towards higher wages. There is, for example, an American-owned factory in Sárvár, where almost the majority of Ukrainian-speaking non-Hungarian-speaking migrant workers are already present. So before anyone says anything about the government, most of them aren't Transcarpathians. These are Ukrainian people from the east and from other parts of Ukraine. These people live in work hotels that real estate speculators buy up as apartments so they can rent out to them. This means that in the villages around Sárvár there is a real estate boom that is not sustainable at all, which means that real estate in these places is actually not available at a very good price. To give you an example, this is somewhere else, around Zalaegerszeg, in Hagyárosbörönd, in a small village of 304 people, 40 Ukrainian citizens were accommodated. In such a small settlement and for you, this argument, which I am now presenting very briefly, will be familiar with the introduction of people of such other cultures at such short notice, does cause serious problems. These people are there because they simply cannot handle the shortage of labour in another way, they cannot manage to pay competitive wages with Austria in Western Hungary, so they are constantly transporting guest workers from Ukraine. This causes more problems, the health care system is not prepared, there are not enough interpreters, they do not provide a sufficient number of interpreters, they simply work on weekends as opposed to Hungarian workers, because they cannot go home on weekends, so they gain an advantage against Hungarian workers that cannot be worked off. This is the responsibility of the government, and this is a problem throughout Western Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-26-377	Thank you, Congressman. Member László Hajdu applied for the last speech after the agenda:. 170 years ago, the first main railway workshop of Istvántelki was handed over in Rákospalota, then the most modern repair shop in Europe. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-26-378	Mr President, Yes, 170 years ago there was a valley of joy in Rákospalota. The Austrian Iron Course Company handed over the first Hungarian railway of Pest and Vác, although it was still in 46 but the railway was built and there was no repairer. Therefore, a great lobbying for the repair of the vehicle was launched in which settlement to be in, Budapest Nyugati pályaudvar, or in public stations: Dunakeszin, Rákospalotán or Vácott this important railway, locomotive translator and repair shop should be built. After all, it was realized in Rákospalota, the Istvántelk real estate 170 years ago, and it brought a fantastic change to Rákospalota, a very different quality for the people living there, because the repair shop was considered a large job recorder at the beginning, then in connection with subsequent developments 2500, and there was a period when it employed 3 thousand people. This is a huge repair shop, which brought a work culture to Rákospalota, today's 15th century. In the district, the MÁV was the Iron Course Society at the time, but later it took the name of MÁV, that since the 1900s a housing estate had been built for the workers, a cultural house was built, a Catholic, reformed church, a sports field, a sports club, and brought a separate colour to the district. Today, too, Rákospalota is referred to as the MÁV District, and the MÁV colony is still known as that. He owes much to the landowners of Károlyi Sándor Rákospalota and László Károlyi, Fot, Rákospalota and Újpest, the Count who finally did this lobbying and was able to obtain it 170 years ago. Let's see what happened. Between 1848 and 1993 this 170-year-old institution, which endured the horrors of the First World War and the peace treaties in Paris, was operating for 145 years, has already been said here: Trianon. He endured the destruction of World War II, and he was always rebuilt, and he was always given a slightly larger task, and he basically crept once, at the political and economic change of regime, it was not possible for the Istvántelk main workshop to survive, as the KGST transports, the military transports of the Warsaw Treaty, took place on this line to a large extent. The industrial and commercial background of the whole regime change changed, and in 1993 the first freely elected government could do nothing but close this workshop. [[21.50]] I asked for a real word, beyond the fact that the 170th anniversary is in these days and we have celebrated it, and we have already done so, because the change of regime is not only a victim of persons, but also of institutions. The vast culture that is built there is in ruins today, and there is also grass and many other illegal landfills. The side of the railway track to Crab Palota or Veresegyház and Dunakeszi is the same, unclaimed. This miscarriage on the entire MÁV line, I think it will appear. I'm gonna have to talk to you about that. One more thing I asked for. I think this is very important. We sacrificed a book to this Istvántelk Main Workshop in the editing of László Dávid, who worked there for 55 years. We remember the former successes of the Istvántelk Main Workshop and its former colleagues. I spoke here today for those whose life was the railroad, for whom the bells stopped ringing. Thank you.
u2018-11-26-379	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
