u2018-10-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Victor Vinnai and notary Bence Tordai will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that representatives of Bernadett Szél and Szabó Szabolcs informed the Speaker of Parliament yesterday that they had quit the May Other of the Political Group of Parliament, so the number of the group has fallen to six. Madam Member and Member will continue their work as independent. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision to defend Hungary's sovereignty and reject the slanders against Hungary will follow. Presentation by representatives of Máté Kocsis, Gergely Gulyás and László Böröcz, Fidesz and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP H/1487. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. According to our agreed agenda, the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, the author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2018-10-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A proposal for a parliamentary decision must be discussed by the Parliament, which is not unprecedented at all, even with regard to the authors, since 5 years ago the European Parliament had a similar experiment. At that time, the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning Hungary to the submission of a Member of the European Parliament who has become notorious under the name of Tavares, which has since ceased to deal with politics, and we also presented a proposal for a resolution, which rejected the decision of the European Parliament, the false statements contained in it, and the comments which were grossly offensive to Hungary's sovereignty. The situation is similar today, somewhat more serious, but not from the point of view of Hungary, but from the point of view of the European Union. Therefore, allow me to deal not only with the decision in particular at the beginning, but also with its impact on the European Union. For the longest time, we see that the political will in the European Parliament becomes a legal standard, quoting the worst Bolshevik traditions. We see that Members of the European Parliament wish to express their own political sympathy or antipathy in the form of establishing non-existent or non-EU legal criteria and, accordingly, adopting decisions that contradict fundamental professional requirements, which grossly violate the Lisbon Treaty and which grossly violate the sovereignty of the Member States, in particular in the case of Hungary. What is new, and far beyond the significance of similar experiments so far, is that even now the procedure in which the European Parliament has decided was irregular, too, is crushing the Lisbon Treaty. The Lisbon Treaty is clear when it says that Parliament's initiative in the procedure provided for in Article 7 requires two thirds of the votes cast by MEPs. We know precisely that two thirds of the votes cast were not available for the vote on the Sargentini report, so the correct conclusion would have been that the European Parliament did not accept this decision. Accordingly, the Hungarian Government has decided to attack this decision at the European Court of Justice, and we expect that if and if the European Commission acts as a legal body and does not exercise political discretion, the outcome of this procedure is clear and clear. However, it is worth taking a brief look at this report in substance, because if we look at the prepared indictment that wants to put Hungary on the bench of the accused, then we will find that all the points that the rapporteur describes as criticism are only intended to ultimately reach the fundamental rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees. We see, of course, that we are talking about the right to an election system, justice, conflict of interest and corruption, the protection of privacy, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of science, freedom of association and equal treatment, but, of course, we are talking about this, which, in particular, in view of the situation in Western Europe today, is in itself an outrage against the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including Roma and Jews, and against statements of hatred against minorities, but this is all in order to allow the report to turn to its criticisms of the fundamental rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, and in this context to issue a declaration of immigration-friendly condemnation incompatible with the policies of the Hungarian government at all points. If we look at the preventive points, the situation is quite clear: the rapporteur of the European Parliament makes partly false statements and partly brings or tries to bring back cases in which Hungary has previously concluded an agreement with the European Commission. No criticism of the electoral system has ever been raised by the Commission. The Commission is the guardian of the Treaties in the European Union, even if today the Juncker Committee has a false political attitude over the last four years, but this does not change the fact that even this Commission has never criticized the electoral system. The opinion of the Venice Commission in this regard makes it clear that the Hungarian electoral legislation provides an appropriate framework for democratic expression of will. If so, why did the rapporteur make this part of the report? The accusations of justice are even more absurd, since there was indeed a infringement procedure on the part of the Commission here, which ended partly by agreement. I would add that there was also a Venetian committee opinion, and the Hungarian Parliament complied with this statement. Next, the European Court of Justice ruled on the only dispute relating to the retirement of judges. The Hungarian legislation amended the law according to this decision, and the European Commission, clearly stating that the Hungarian law on justice is in line with the fundamental rules of the European Union, closed the question. It is a dangerous practice and it is unacceptable for the future of the European Union to function successfully, but even for its survival, what this report represents, because it sends a clear message to everyone that it does not make sense to negotiate constructively with the European Commission; it is pointless to seek a compromise and to reach a compromise; and there is no point in bringing compromises in this sense to the Parliament of a Member State in the form of a legislative amendment, as we see that this is not an obstacle to re-introducing this as a political accusation after a few years, while Hungary's procedure was also exemplary in this respect. [[10.40]] It's the same with regard to media law. In accordance with the Commission's investigation into the media law, the Parliament adopted a legislative amendment. We have also reached an agreement with the Council of Europe in this regard. There was also an amendment to the law, and the committee also closed this case in a way that Hungarian media regulation is in line with the rules of the European Union. However, the rapporteur does not only ignore the position of the Hungarian Government, not only the amendments made in Hungary, but also the opinion of the European Commission. The fact that the situation is very clear shows that the European Commission's biased vice-president against Hungary has clearly not mentioned in any way that it is justified to initiate the procedure under Article 7 against Hungary. With regard to privacy and data protection, I would just like to state before the Parliament that the status of the data protection authority as a constitutional institution has become completely independent by the adoption of the Fundamental Law. This states today that the Head of the Data Protection Authority can also act as the successor of the Data Protection Supervisor under official authority. As a result, it can now take decisions on the protection of personal data and on the publicity of data of general interest under official authority. There was no such case law in the past. This was not possible under previous legislation. Moreover, in international forums, this regulation has been explicitly recognised. On the issue of freedom of expression, Hungarian constitutional practice is consistent with European practice by the fact that, of course, there are different rules in Europe as well. But, as I understand it, the latest practice is to limit freedom of expression to what can be agreed and welcomed. I would add that in the area of hate speech, too, the Hungarian Parliament has taken steps in this regard, which, by the way, should be debated from a classic liberal position, which is usually welcomed. However, this does not change the fact that a legal body that can never be taken seriously has not expressed criticism of the freedom of expression in Hungary. The report on religious freedom is even more interesting. I would like to draw this to the attention of those who believe that the Hungarian Government is being judged by this report. He is so determined about Hungary and the Parliament that the report literally states that in the autumn of 2015 the members of the government who wanted to settle the status of the churches submitted a legislative amendment to the Parliament, which the Hungarian Parliament did not accept in the absence of a two-thirds majority. So, in this regard, the criticism concerns the whole Parliament. In addition, the opposition parties, who did not vote for it... I would add that if we were as advanced European democracy as we are today in the European Parliament, we would have accepted it, because if we had ignored the abstentions, we actually had a two-thirds majority of the amendments to the church law. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Therefore, it should be examined whether there is any point in declaring this amendment, because then the Hungarian leader, not knowing these advanced European standards, found that the Parliament did not accept this provision in the absence of a two-thirds majority. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I would therefore like to draw the opposition representatives' attention to the fact that even they have received the criticisms of the Parliament, the country. Ms Sargentini does not approve of your position on the amendment of the church law in December 2015. I'd still protect you. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No!]] I find that position completely wrong... although it is difficult for me to defend Congresswoman Vadai, but I would defend her too. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You don't have to.]] 'Cause I think he voted no, too. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] I therefore find the position that you have expressed in this debate inappropriate, but I do not think that Mrs Sargentini has anything to do with Agnes Vadai, for example. That's why I don't think [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want the protection of Gergely Gulyás!]] that Mrs Sargentini would have the right to classify the opinion of Ms Vadai or any other opposition representative in any form. So, Congresswoman, you can count on our protection in this matter to the full. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want it!]] We believe that you have been unduly harmed. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want it! Objection!]] We believe that you have been unduly harmed in the European Parliament [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not me!]] And we hope that such injustices will not happen to you in the future. [[Gergely Arato: Protect the Prime Minister if he needs it.]] But if they do happen, the woman who represents our assistance and support can count on the fullest. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Never!]] The criticisms also include protection against the rights of persons belonging to minorities and against statements of hatred against minorities. The grammatically incorrect wording is from the original text. I would also like to make it clear here that today, according to any relevant statement, opinion and analysis, the rights of minorities and nationalities living in Hungary are much more guaranteed, their safety is much more guaranteed than in the western Member States of the European Union. If we look at the extent to which there have been atrocities against the minority of mass immigration, otherwise against European Jews, in recent months, Germany, the Netherlands, Western Europe and the Western countries, and France are the last to be able to make any criticism of Hungary. [[György Balla: That's right! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] This is how we get to the point where everyone can see the meaning of the report, or everyone can see why this whole report was written. This is the fundamental rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees. The report is a pro-immigration report whose sole purpose is to break the Hungarian government's opposition to immigration, to condemn the Hungarian government for defending Europe's borders, to condemn it because it makes it clear that it is necessary to help the world where there is trouble and not to bring trouble to Europe. What we clearly see is that the border protection that Hungary has introduced does not please those socialists, left-wingists, communists, liberals and the liberal half of the People's Party who would like to let anyone into Europe and which believes that Europe's survival can be guaranteed if the last signs of European culture can be eliminated. We are fundamentally opposed to this, and we do not accept it, and we want to make it clear that no report, no European Parliament's dictatorship or indictment can make the Hungarian Government change its immigration policy. We clearly reject immigration, and we clearly believe that every country has the right, under the Lisbon Treaty, to take a free stand on immigration and decide who it wants to live with and who it does not. Those who vote in favour of this report, including Hungarian opposition representatives, will have the right to reject Hungary, who believe that the same practice should be introduced, which has led to parallel societies in Western Europe, which have created social tensions that cannot be dealt with by countries much richer than us. We therefore find it intolerable for Hungary to be placed on the bench of the accused because it wants to maintain the right of the Hungarian nation, the political nation as a whole, to decide for ourselves who we wish to live with and who we do not. I would like to make it clear that the Government's commitment in this respect is that this Parliament's resolution, which has been adopted invalid in an irregular procedure, does not affect, in any way, or even strengthens, and I would also like to add that we, of course, in any body in the European Union, are happy to answer the questions relating to the criticisms expressed in this report. But if the European Union's aim is not the European Union's institutions, including the European Parliament, are not to destroy the institutionalised Europe that could have been created after the change of regime, which could have been created after the changes of 89 to 90, then such reports should be rejected by a large majority. [[10.50]] We see that, and this is also apparent from the voting rates, that, in practice, Western Europe is trying to condemn Central Europe because the lack of tolerance in the political elite of Western Europe against the values represented by Central European societies and societies is unacceptable today for the European Union and the political elite of Western Europe. We consider this to be dangerous, and we also consider it dangerous for the long-term survival of institutionalised European cooperation. We are in favour of tolerance against the intolerant attitude of the rapporteur. We believe that everyone has the right to determine who they want to live with and who they don't. And just as we have not criticized and classified in any form the decisions which did not affect Hungary, which concerned the decision of another country in immigration policy other than ours, other countries have no right to classify the decisions of the Hungarian immigration policy, precisely because, on the basis of the Lisbon Treaty, which was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament after accession, immigration falls within national competence. So if someone thinks that a common position can be reached on immigration in Europe, it will destroy the European Community. The 28 Member States will not agree on the issue of immigration. There are countries with different historical backgrounds. There are colonial countries, there are some where the proportion of people with a migration background is already more than one fifth of society, and Germany has more than 20 percent of people with a migration background in society, so there is absolutely no way that 28 countries in Europe can take a common position on this issue and come to a common position. In this way, we can either accept the different decisions, the different decisions of different countries and different parliamentary groups, or an accusation that weakens European cooperation and ultimately destroys it. The Hungarian Government is committed to European cooperation based on intelligent, contract and written law. Therefore, reports which are not suitable for anything but unfounded accusations to condemn a national immigration policy, which seeks to preserve a national identity, a European identity, are expressly rejected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him who he wants to speak for the government. [[Csaba Dömötör reporting.]] Yes, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, indicates his intention to speak. So on behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-03-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Parliament wishes to respond to a report which, at first glance, is an ideological indictment of poor quality, but in fact the most violent attack on Hungary's self-determination. It disputes the right to decide on the fundamental issues ourselves, above all on immigration. This debate has long been more than just about Hungary. The political breakline lies between the Europe of nations and the illusion of open society. The debate is about whether Europe leaves its borders wide open or capable of protecting them. In this sense, the Sargentini report is also an election programme of the forces supporting immigration. As far as the circumstances are concerned, it is extremely serious that the report itself admits that it is expanding beyond the EU's powers; it is in the text in black and white. They also admitted that they had not even sent an official delegation to Budapest. It has also been found that organisations have been listed as contributors that have never heard of this, and if we take them off, we find activists funded from abroad, almost without exception. [[György Balla: That's right! Gergely Arató: Imperialist agents!]] Everyone could also see that the authors of the report were completely apprehensive that the government reacted in detail to all criticisms and attacks in a 108-page document, and that the poor quality of the text indicated that most of the accusations made were already legally closed, some of them were ideological expectations that had nothing to do with the rule of law, and some of them were such a lie that it was a miracle that the Strasbourg ceiling did not break. By the way, we've done this before. The importance of the legislation to the authors has been clearly demonstrated by the fact that the rules on residence, otherwise laid down in the basic contract, have been completely overwritten. That is why the government would have challenged this report and the decision. Dear House, The Sargentini report is a bit like a random episode from the Columbo series. There is much in it, but at the beginning we know what the rush is, because if we remove the lies, ideological expectations and closed cases, then everyone knows that ultimately the government's immigration policy is being attacked, so they want to force Hungary to change direction. And if you've read the report, I'm not convinced that the opposition ate it, you'll see that they're attacking the government's immigration policy in at least six directions. That's something to talk about. We're being asked for because we didn't accept the resettlement quota; it's in the text. They blame our country for not taking in enough immigrants so far. That's why I'm being criticized. They are also attacking the legal border lock, which, along with the physical border lock, is a guarantee of our protection. The Stop Soros Act is also being attacked, among other things their problem is that it refers to the survival of the nation, the protection of citizens and culture. Well, that's a problem, then. And if that wasn't enough, the report would clearly protect Ahmed H., who attacked the Hungarian police with stones and was therefore condemned. It is extremely scandalous that the report denies this, and it says that the only problem was that the man who was convicted wanted to bring his family across the border. Last but not least, the report also attacks Hungary because a previous consultation parallels immigration and terrorism. The reality confirms us: the bombers in Paris, the ax attacker in Würzburg, the suicide bomber in Ansbach and the stabber in Turku also claimed to be refugees; they took advantage of the loopholes in EU rules. [[Gergely Arató: And the Hungarian bomber in Körút was also a refugee!]] Dear House, When we talk about the Sargentini report, we cannot go without saying one thing, and this is the role of the opposition parties, which, if I wanted to make a summary, I would do with a word and this is a shame. They have been competing for years in how many ways they can embarrass Hungary, and if you look at it right, they are celebrating now. They are celebrating a report that deeply violates Hungary and wants to limit its possibilities for action. I would suggest that everyone who voted in favour of the Sargentini report, with their resolution or declaration, is the same as those who have supported immigration in all the existing ways in recent years. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Come on, you gotta be kidding me.]] According to MSZP, for example, the Sargentini report is good, but it is a little soft. The same MSZP first called immigration a fake problem and then denied the entire resettlement quota. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Hello, Congresswoman Kunhalmi, it was you who called immigration a false problem. And after they called immigration a fake problem, they denied it, the resettlement quota, and then voted for it without bone in Brussels. That's the thing. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because this is the national interest!]] According to the Democratic Coalition, the Sargentinis did what they had long expected of them. The same Democratic Coalition also collected signatures in addition to the resettlements and organized a protest against the border lock. According to Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is also welcome here in the House, there is even more to be feared of dog dirt than of terrorists. Parade security assessment. One of the Presidents of the Dialogue said that a patriot can only vote in favour of this report. They voted for it. As they said, they are grateful to Mrs Sargentini. The same party is of the opinion that the resettlement quota system is the best possible solution proposal. They also collected signatures for this and voted in the European Parliament. To vote in favour of the Tavares report, Jobbik said that it was treason, but in this case it was already fully integrated into the left-wing choir, all by the fact that the party had previously burned an EU flag. It's a very, very nasty story. Dear House, If we look at who voted in favour of the Sargentini report not only among the Hungarian opposition, but also in the European Parliament, there will also be a huge overlap with those who support immigration. [[11.00]] So the only positive thing about this whole Sargentini paper is that it has made it clear where the fault lines are now on the issue of national identity, the protection of Christian culture and migration. [[Noise, interference from the opposition side.]] And that also means that the situation in the EU institutions, let us be honest, is still the majority of immigration supporters, politicians and decision makers. But that could change next spring. That is why they want to complete the plans to support immigration, which is more risky than before, in these weeks. For example, they would transfer the right to border protection to Brussels. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That is simply not true.]] In May, all European citizens will be able to express their views on these issues. In any case, we have the advantage that the Hungarians have already made clear what they think about this. A clear message was sent in the referendum, in consultations and in the parliamentary elections. First of all, it is important for Hungarians to protect the country's security and Christian culture. Secondly, they do not want us to have powers taken out of our hands in any strategic area. And third of all, they're not gonna let them turn this country into an immigrant country. [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] For this reason, the government is very much in favour of sending a very strong message to the report's adopters.
u2018-10-03-4	Congresswoman Kunhalm! You'll have your chance to forgive me, Mr. Secretary. You will have the opportunity to speak on the list of speakers. Then do this, please. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-5	Then, with the same volume, please inform the House why you said that immigration is a false problem and why you voted for resettlement. Because of Europe? Well, hardly. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Quote exactly!]] Therefore, the government supports the Parliament's sending a very strong message to the report's adopters. And the point of the message is that they cannot take away the right to decide on the most important issues in our lives. And those opposition representatives who are attacking the country for any reason can tell their foreign allies that the government is ready to fight politics, we will not give in to blackmail. [[Gergely Harvesto: We should steer, not fight!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Although Gergely Gulyás, my colleague, Minister, and I have submitted this draft parliamentary resolution in full will, there is one thing that I have to confront in his expozee. For my part, I do not wish to participate, Minister, in the political defence of Agnes Vadai, in doing this work alone. Not even because this report contains a number of points that could be a criticism of your governance, but it is a criticism of our governance. This is one of the biggest evidences of the falseness of the report. But let me start by saying, perhaps, not with this, but rather, in a somewhat different way from the speakers before me, to the honourable Parliament, what has happened in the European Parliament, what has happened in the last year, in the European public address, in the European security situation, and what has happened in the European political debates, where it comes from. If anyone thinks that the false slippages set out in the Sargentini report are really about issues that have already been closed during negotiations between the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian Parliament or EU infringement proceedings or on the basis of agreements with other EU institutions, they will retake it, because this has suddenly become current, then they are wrong. Obviously, as the elections to the European Parliament are approaching, the debate on European policy that will now appear to determine the elections to the European Parliament, as it has also defined the parliamentary elections of the Member States over the last three years, must also be dealt with. If one thinks that migration, the debate on illegal immigration, will be the main topic of the elections to the European Parliament, it is also wrong because it is only the Italian, German, Czech or Austrian elections that need to be turned to so as not to mention, let us say, the Hungarian parliamentary elections in April this year, which was also a key topic, like all other political debates in the Member States, the issue of immigration and the conflict of views. We would also like to make it clear that the Hungarian Parliament, although understanding it, refuses to acknowledge that the European Union distorts and amends its own institutional system, its own rule system, in accordance with its own ruling political expectations, simply to stigmatize and punish those countries which represent a conflict of views in the forthcoming European Parliament elections debate, just as mentioned in the aforementioned immigration debate, which is clearly visible to all Europeans. Hungary is under political attack, and therefore we are here today to give a political response to this political attack. Obviously, the Hungarian Government also has a legal debate on the adoption of the report, as the Minister pointed out, but the Hungarian Parliament, just like five years ago, I note here, is also strangely obliged to respond to the Tavares report scheduled for the European Parliament's campaign before this political attack. It is also worth considering when we are discussing this issue with some European perspectives, which are the countries that are the strongest critics of the Brussels immigration policy in terms of the loudest, the most karakanic and their own democratic legitimacy in the Member States. This is Poland and Hungary. And we cannot fail to see the connection between the Commission's attack on Poland and Parliament's attack on Hungary. It is difficult to exclude the possibility that this is not related to immigration disputes. We would also like to make it clear in this Parliamentary resolution, which we have presented to you together with Minister, that Hungary rejects the accusations which, in view of their political motivation, have been written because of the forthcoming European Parliament elections, but still paint a false and false picture of Hungary that could be harmful to our whole country, nation, country and all Hungarians, and that our judgment has been damaged by the Hungarian Parliament for whom else, what else? You have a duty to remedy it. We would also like to make it clear in this parliamentary decision that, knowing the debates in Europe over the last few years, and given the different positions on immigration, it is quite clear that this report is a simple pressure exercise, a blackmail that ends with the many immigration planning methods, the right to withdraw border surveillance. The European Union wants to take away from Hungary the opportunity that is one of the pillars of our national sovereignty. We want to keep our own borders. The European Union also wants to intervene at the cost of violating our sovereignty. The Hungarian Parliament must give a firm negative response to this. If I may, I would like to quote a few things from the parliamentary resolution, since we have heard them in the last few days, and we have faced through the press what kind of position opposition representatives take on the parliamentary resolution. The point is that they can't support it, they won't be able to support it. Let's see what you can't support in this barely one-page text. Parliament is the most important institution of democracy. The Sargentini report attacked the decisions taken by the Hungarian Parliament in its own jurisdiction, thereby violating Hungary's sovereignty. Is that true or not? Obviously, it is true, because the European Parliament is making statements that it objects to Hungarian parliamentary decisions, laws, and Fundamental Law, which the Hungarian Parliament itself has made in its own sovereign competence and democratic legitimacy, and which, by the way, do not constitute the rights of the community according to the basic documents of the Union. [[11.10]] In recent years, our report states that immigration has become the most important problem on the continent. There is no need to go further, ladies and gentlemen, than to observe the topics, the public speech and the public address surrounding these Member States' votes. We also claim, our authors, and ask Parliament's support for this, that we are determined to preserve Christian culture together, that Europe's borders and the security of Europeans must still be protected today. Dear opposition, what is it that is not eligible? We would also declare in this parliamentary resolution that we reject the false accusations of the report. Here, allow me to make a few small accusations that we need to bring here to illustrate what this report does not concern the Hungarian Government, as Minister Gulyás said, but also the entire Hungarian Parliament and Hungary. The report states that the Hungarian Guard could have been active during Fidesz. All this is said and voted by Mr Ujhelyi, Member of the European Parliament, that the Hungarian Guard may have been able to operate for a few months, but it was created under your governance. Why do you not like to debate in the European Parliament that neo-Nazi organisations could march in your time? [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. István Ujhelyi: I'm the TV station...]] My highly educated fellow harvester [[Crying from the ranks of MSZP and DK. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask you to refrain from yelling at me because every time we tell you the facts about your government, which is the fact... [[Gergely Harvestó: It has never happened before. Defiance, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman Harvesto has not yet experienced that he is not unsure of me, but is motivated by you yelling at me. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the debate should not be allowed to go on for a long time, so that I can finish my line of thought. It was just under your government that extremist organizations were created. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] They could have held neo-Nazi marches in the field of Heroes under your control, and held similar movements in the Castle under your control. It was the Orbán government, and I tried to tell you this two weeks ago, which eliminated it. Do you think it is true that violence against Jews and Jewish property is taking place in Hungary? Give an example of this, honourable Members, when speaking and perhaps comparing examples in the Netherlands or France with the current situation in Hungary. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] I will have to return to Mr Ujhelyi, even because he has applied for it. [[István Ujhelyi intervenes.]] But if you will allow me to return to the parliamentary decision, I would ask the opposition representatives that we cannot support asking or reject the European Union's illegal use of the EU institution system to force its own will. What happened? What has happened is that the European Commission and the pro-immigration majority of the European Parliament have adopted a report, which is obviously due to the fact that the same pro-immigration majority does not like countries to go against the policy they believe to be mainstream, the policy they dictated by and thought to be mainstream. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] That is why they are using the European Parliament's decision and the voting rules to turn it against us. What is not eligible in the sentence that the sovereignty of the country cannot be transferred to anyone, its depositary is the freely elected Parliament? What is not acceptable to you, however, that only Hungarians can decide who they want to live with? I would also like to point out that this is not contrary to the relevant documents of the European Union, the Treaty. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: If you could see the list of settlement bond holders, for example.]] What is not eligible for the Hungarian Government to retain the right to border protection, act and do not transfer it to the competent bodies of the European Union? [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It can be quite clear to all Hungarian voters that the fault line can be defined not only in the European Parliament between pro-immigration and anti-immigration politicians, but also in the Hungarian Parliament. We have no illusion of your support for this parliamentary resolution. Obviously they won't. They won't, because all their domestic domestic political dreams are cherished abroad, and obviously the rest of the world dictates to you to face us on this issue of illegal immigration and border protection. I think that they are not doing the right thing, but their soul, the Hungarian electorate, will also be able to decide next spring which political community is able and intends to defend the interests of Hungary, which political community hears the voice of the majority of Hungarians, and which political community would risk all this, risk our common culture, our security, risk the value system of European and Christian culture, all that we Europeans have built, created and our duty to protect together for centuries and thousands of years. It is not just a matter of principle, it is also a practical issue, because if there are differences of values, in practical differences we might be stumped to the point that we need to be clear that next year's European Parliament elections will be a huge choice at stake, turning fate and cutting into meat. It will be decided whether European decision-making will continue in the next five years, whether the European Commission can enforce the will to open up immigration, open roads to immigrants, organise immigration and endanger European culture and security, or whether the majority of the European Parliament can take action against it. We trust that European citizens can clearly see what is happening. We trust that in recent years, it has also become clear to all European citizens that this fault is going against the will of the people. I am here to offer you a statement from the French Minister of the Interior the other day, who said that he would resign because the French Government did not hear the people's voice. We trust that if you will not support this and implement the foreign will, and if you will not hear the people's voice, but you will see that what you are doing now, with which you are playing, is not going to be able to repair it as much as the decisions, sins and damages that have been adopted or taken under your government. This will be an irreversible process for which you will be responsible and for which the pro-European mainstream of immigration will be responsible, the politicians who, by the way, wish to express all opposing opinions. This is the essence of the political attack, which is the political answer to the Hungarian Parliament. That is why we have presented you with this parliamentary resolution. We do not trust and believe that you will support this; the internationality of the left cannot afford to put national interests first on its flag. Therefore, this debate can be considered as barren, but the Hungarian Parliament cannot avoid responding to unfair, false and unfounded attacks, and cannot be avoided by the Hungarian Parliament [[Interventions from opposition benches, including: Mr President! Time! We should use the bell.]] that the Hungarian government [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] give a clear mandate to protect and maintain the right of border surveillance itself. Thank you, Mr. President, for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-8	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the President-in-Office of the Council has a sense of time. In the case of Chief Speaker, I've always given you one minute and given it. [[Noise.]] In Chief Speaker's case! Dear Parliament, We will continue our work and give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Group leader, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-10-03-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although the title of the parliamentary resolution proposal before us refers to the defence of Hungary's sovereignty and the rejection of slanders against Hungary, here we have been listening for more than half an hour to the pro-government representatives and representatives of the Hungarian government, and I see that there is a very serious effort here to turn this whole debate on a sort of sidetrack. Although Minister Gulyás made a slim attempt to try to refute one or two factual findings in the Sargentini report. [[11.20]] However, I can see the effort to try this whole issue, putting the substantive findings of this entire report in parentheses and redirecting the debate to the part of the entire report that has actually been included in this report because of Mrs Sargentini's mistake. Dear Minister Gulyás, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You should not insult Mrs Sargentini, but thank her. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches: That's right! There's a riot in the benches of Fidesz. Laszlo Szászfalvi: Where have you fallen?! You've come this far!]] so that it's a kind of spirit of 68. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and brought an argument system based on extreme left-wing ideology into this report. He couldn't resist his own faction and ideological background, and he raised some ideas that were indeed factually wrong, which were wrong, but which you, thank God, can hold on to, and now you have another year to pursue a false debate on a very, very serious and indeed very important challenge until the EP elections and municipal elections. So thank Mrs Sargentini, because you can really build on the fact that the majority of the Hungarian population does not read 68-page parliamentary reports, and because you also manage the media around, according to the findings that are in the report, you have completely gleichschalted the media and public service in Hungary, so you can now carry out a kind of false dialogue about any issue in which you can discuss this topic and derail this whole report and its factual findings. This is a distraction. This report is essentially not about border protection, it is not about migration. It does have a sentence or two in it, it does have a statement or two, it does have a paragraph or two in it, which is unfortunate to have it in it. And I would like to reject here immediately the findings of State Secretary Csaba Dömötör that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, together with the other opposition parties or with the left-wing parties, would have supported this report. We rejected this report with one abstention. We also believe that the issue of migration has been included in this report as Pilate did in the credo. There is no place in this report for migration issues, border protection, immigration policy, and Mrs Sargentini has made a big mistake. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Embarrassing explanation.]] But you have done me a great favor, fellow Members. And indeed, the findings that my fellow Member Matthew Kocsis mentioned... [[His mic's creaking. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Sargentini calls to thank you.]] Mrs Sargentini has made completely unnecessary statements concerning Hungary, but they are not about the rule of law in Hungary and the situation of Hungarian democracy, because that is what this report is about. And I think that even the framework for a 15-minute speech by the lead speaker would be far removed if we started to list the factual findings in this report on how you have abused their power during the last eight years, and how you have built a hybrid system that we do not call dictatorship, because you have not created it by using an army and violence, but by occupying democratic institutions; by planting Fidesz party soldiers and friends in independent institutions, you have taken down the entire public service, which is perhaps the most amazing and hairy version of the media's occupation, and you have bought yourself into the media as a whole, you have squeezed the opposition's voice out of the media, thereby fully calculating freedom of the press and freedom of speech. They've invaded the courts, the D.A.'s office, they've invaded the... they've invaded the... [[Noise in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Aaa, aaa.]] Courts, the prosecutor's office, and careful attention was paid to [[The president's ringing the bell.]] All the money coming from the European Union is put in the pockets of friends through public tenders, in the pockets of Viktor Orbán's relatives, and delivered to the pals of the fidesz moonyard. This is what this is all about in the majority of the proposal, and we really had to abstain on this report because of the false findings, highlighting that, in contrast, the majority of its findings on the rule of law in Hungary are correct in this report. On the subject of sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen: you, the representatives of the fourth Orbán government or its members of government, when speaking about sovereignty, should remember that at the time of the first Orbán government, you have discussed most of the chapters leading to EU accession, in which you, by otherwise very servitude, discussed the accession of the European Union, yes, indeed, they have given up Hungarian sovereignty partially, so that you should not be surprised if reports in the European Parliament that criticize your activities or subject you to a critical test. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Says Lajos Simicska held on.]] So much for the issue of sovereignty. And be kind, spare me the thought that those who do not support you in this deceitful campaign, the traitor and those who vote in the European Parliament, one way or another, in international forums, would be traitors. This is not true, and I would like to see that my reaction to the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda was not answered two weeks ago, so perhaps I am being answered by Secretary of State Dömötör or Minister Gulyás, or by the prominent representatives of Fidesz, to what it is that on 24 October 2006 Viktor Orbán said in the European Union that governments that institutionalise corruption, moral relativism, poverty, vulnerability, governments that provide false data, politicians who do not know responsibility and political lies should be treated as their own internal concern by the EU, and should not in any way support, assist, assist, in any way, these fraudulent and lying governments. That is what Viktor Orbán said in Strasbourg in the European Union, in the European Parliament, before the country-world, and that is not what this is about! So don't try to explain to me that I'm protecting the Gyurcsány government. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of Fidesz: Yes, you can! Dr. Bence Rétvári: There's no need to explain. The president's ringing the bell.]] That was a good point at the time. [[Big noise and yells. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank Ferenc Gyurcsány for...
u2018-10-03-10	Gentlemen. Fellow Members!
u2018-10-03-11	... two-thirds of you were allowed to sit in Parliament in 2010, and your responsibility is that Ferenc Gyurcsány may still be here! You are setting up a stage for Ferenc Gyurcsány, because it is in your interest that, as long as Ferenc Gyurcsány sits in the ranks of the opposition, you can sit in their seats. [[It's a lot of noise. A voice from Jobbik's ranks, Bravo! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You supported his candidate this Sunday! György Balla: When will you and Gyurcs meet next in your room? When's the next time you see DK?]] That's for sure. The accountability has been canceled, my dear fellow Member Balla, it is also your responsibility, personally! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] And the government you support. So please pay some attention to this for the rest of the time. [[A statement from the Fidesz: You voted so well together!]] As far as migration and border protection are concerned, I would like to state that any attempt to link the Sargentini report and the issue of border protection is completely false. Ladies and gentlemen, You have the good fortune that Mrs Sargentini has made the mistake of bringing this issue into her report for a few stray sentences. You know that on the day when the vote on the Sargentini report took place in Strasbourg on 12 September, this vote coincides with Mr Juncker's annual speech on border surveillance and immigration policy, where he made the Commission's proposals on increasing Frontex's number and extending its responsibilities. So it is very convenient for you that on one and the same day a vote was held in the European Parliament on the elimination of democracy in Hungary, with a two-thirds majority, and Juncker gave an annual speech on the same day on the issue of border protection. [[11.30]] This is how you have been able to combine these two completely independent events, and once again strengthens you to talk about this migration issue, border protection. FRONTEX, which is now being attacked by the new Hungarian Prime Minister and his government, is the organisation that the Hungarian Prime Minister himself proposed to strengthen, for example, in September 2015, when he came up with his six-point action plan in Strasbourg and six months later, in April 2016, when he presented a ten-point action plan to the European Parliament. He asked for an increase in the number of Frontex, asked for the extension of its tasks, said and argued for common European border protection and asked for Frontex to intervene where a Member State is unable to fulfil its tasks and commitments in relation to border protection. Then what is this dog comedy, fellow Members? ! [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Here's the Commission's proposal about how Europe should protect its borders, and now you're like a pouty little kid or stupid kid, starting here. [[Delight and applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] on the proposal for a European Border Protection... [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Harder, Marci! György Balla: Don't be a bitch.]] But you too, my fellow Member Balla, feel free to come to your senses. Feel free to come to yourself at a time when the European Union finally after three years [[Noise.]] After three years, he will come to his senses, he will accept your proposal, he will finally put a proposal on the table about European border protection, about strengthening Frontex, about how to protect the country from migration, you will start because it is not in your interest, because then you will be able to use migration policy and immigration policy with a weaker argument for internal policy purposes, so you will now step in Frontex, join Juncker, join the European Commission as you stand in the UN and join the Pope of Rome, if your interests dictate this, probably to the greater glory of Christian democracy. Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. György Balla: Don't be rude. Don't be a pussy, Marci.]] This kind of inconsistencies [[Noise.]] This kind of inconsistencies that you are pursuing cannot be masked even by invading the entire Hungarian media, even viewing your own voters as idiots, throwing total dust, and while you are trying to act as Europe's savior and fighting in words against migration and immigration, you are overachieving quotas. Here they open the door wide open to politely knocking patrons, which would not have been revealed if an Secretary of State of Foreign Affairs had not blabbed in the daily press of a mini-state on the periphery that Hungary had already exceeded the quota here I am talking about the Malta Times, that if someone hadn't given it yet, it would be worth a subscription, he would say that Hungary had already exceeded the migration quota by far. While you're putting more than 20,000 people on our backs with settlement bonds. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] In the meantime, their family members, relatives, terrorists sought by the FBI... are being dealt with by them. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now clap your hands, come on!]] He buys real estate in the neighbourhood of the Hungarian Prime Minister, he and the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs set up a company, of course mysteriously deceased [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why are you silent now? Why don't you yell at me?]] We are very sorry, but of course this does not excuse you, and it does not excuse you from playing a complete charade here, and the Hungarian electorate is being misled by this rhetoric, this policy, and the cost of this inconsistencies will be high. It is not a coincidence, my fellow Members, and it may not be too late to make a backward face here. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You have succeeded several times!]] that this report was voted by two thirds in the European Parliament, the European People's Party. They're not our friends, they're yours! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] What could be in the European Parliament, fellow Members? [[István Szilárd Németh: Stop screaming! Keep your voice down.]] What could be in your political party family if they're facing you? Not the far left, not the liberals, your party family is critical of the Orbán government's activities. It's time to think about the politics of Orbán, and it's probably not too late to turn around at the beginning of a cycle. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. [[Lajos Korózs: Whoo! From the great faction! László Szászfalvi: Bigger than MSZP! How many of you are there?]] May I, Congressmen? [[Noise.]] Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-10-03-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian people have decided several times in recent years, but the last time they decided on 8 April that they did not ask for immigration, they did not ask for the eradication of Christian culture, and they did not ask for the exchange of population. They also decided not to ask much of you either, honourable opposition Members. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The choice was not fair! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And the XV. Circuit?]] The decision of the Hungarian people was firm and clear, but many cannot accept it. According to Brussels, democracy is feared on the road, especially by bureaucrats who have not been elected by anyone. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Tibor Navracsics!]] According to them, the Hungarian people made the wrong choice. They should have decided on multiculturalism, open society, immigration. This is the basis for any attack we have seen in recent weeks or months. When an openly political-motivated, campaign-scented, lying and dishonest attack is taking place on our country, then the political forces in Hungary should use all their power to dampen this, stand up for the Hungarian people and reject the accusations. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and László Varju: This is what we do!]] Then you can and even have internal policy or policy debates at home. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Can he be with you? There are many policy debates in Hungary today!]] We all know that's not what happened. The only force that picked up the glove that turned down the charges that stood up hard to blackmail was us. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Well said!]] And not you. When Fidesz-KDNP and the government provide answers, responds, the Prime Minister participates in the debate, and at home we are also giving an answer, a strong stand, which is now in front of us, and the opposition wants to bring the Sargentini report here, to this House, and to vote again here. What's next? Our political community represents Hungarian interests in Brussels and the opposition represents the interests of Brussels in Hungary. [[Moraj from the opposition parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're a good communist, congratulations! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tiborcz!]] It is a shame that the Hungarian opposition also assisted the Sargentini report! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Whoever is not with you is against you! You guys are real communists.]] You still cannot accept the decision of the Hungarian people. You cannot put your hatred of your own domestic political opponents behind the fate of your country. [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Do your mourning work already! Do the mourning work and act as responsible opponents who look to the country's interests. [[Moraj from the opposition parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: Stop cheating!]] We know precisely that the MEP of the Gyurcsány Party, Péter Niedermüller, has been actively involved in the preparation of this report, and has also helped with amendments. [[Lajos Korózs: Finally a reasonable man!]] Those who destroyed the country denied Hungarians across the border, got shot among people [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What? What are you talking about? Congressman, don't lie to me.]] put Hungarian families in a difficult position [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You ran home!]] They didn't do anything for four years, they are the most active when it comes to condemning Hungary and, of course, voting against Hungary. So are the socialists. [[Dr. István Apáti: Orbán escaped in an armored vehicle!]] István Ujhelyi boasted that he had presented a whole package of proposals [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] to help Hungary discredit. Remember (Noise. The president's ringing. Remember that he was the one who said three years ago that I would not be able to support Article 7, because he could ruin the future of Hungary for generations. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] That's what the socialists are worth. They have harmed Hungary before, and they are trying to do so now. I know Parliament isn't the place to tell jokes, but István Ujhelyi said this is patriotism, we think it's a joke. [[Dr. István Apáti crossed me, shoved his two hands in a fist, lifting: How many are in a hive? How many people are in jail?]]
u2018-10-03-14	Congressman Abbot! [[Noise.]] Congressman Abbot!
u2018-10-03-15	I will also listen to you, my honourable fellow Members. [[Dr. István Apáti: How many are sitting? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Ujhelyi, we know exactly what you represent.
u2018-10-03-16	Congressman Abbot, stop it!
u2018-10-03-17	It represents what the Hungarian people said that we do not need this. According to the MSZP MEP Tibor Szanyi, the report is still soft, he believes that Hungary should be condemned much harder. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi and Lajos Korózs: Government!]] Jávor Benedek, a representative of the Dialogue, argued for the adoption of the report all along. Congressman Bence of Turdai even said that they would be proud to vote in favour of the Sargentini report. Liberals, who did not venture to become their own MEPs, also encouraged their EP party family to accept the report, and also presented the Sargentini report to Parliament to try to adopt it again. It became clear again, what we already knew, because the Hungarian left always does this, attacking his own country in Brussels. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bond!]] Tamás Meserics, who had previously supported resettlement quotas, considered the report well founded. He said he didn't have a problem with it. His party is falling apart, once he hears this, sometimes he hears it from Budapest, so he chose the most determined, vertebrately stand, and he didn't go to the vote. [[11.40]] The reason why the parties did not deviate from Brussels' communication panels and directions is because Erzsébet Schmuck said yesterday in the debate on the climate change strategy that cheap energy, the reduction of overhead costs, he said that electricity and gas prices should be increased. The same Brussels mantra that we have already heard against the reduction of the rent. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik did not reject the report either, and their abstention helped the report to pass through fraud and even acknowledged some of the anti-immigration charges. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: The first such vote was in '79.]] They squinted and lay low while convicting the country. Recently, Tibor Bana, Vice-President of Jobbik, did not vote in favour of the resolution proposal before us and said that Jobbik has a substantive problem with the parliamentary resolution before us. We are saddened to note, but we are now not surprised that Jobbik has a content problem with a text on national sovereignty, the protection of Christian culture and the opposition to immigration. You've come here, fellow Members. Are you talking about inconsistencies when you came from listing and EU flag burning to the Spinoza house? [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is not the youth department!]] And you, Mr. Gyöngyösi Group leader, mentioned that Ferenc Gyurcsány should be standing on the stage. You're the ones who are on the 15th floor. You've also consulted him in the district, you're the ones who didn't start a candidate to win the candidate for the Gyurcsány Party. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is therefore clear that the adoption of the Sargentini report is a petty revenge of pro-immigration politicians against Hungary and against the Hungarian people, because we have proved that there is no need for migration and that we can defend our borders. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You can see who gave you the scholarship! Noise in opposition benches.]] We are condemned because we defend Christian culture, national identity, and because we refuse to give up the right to border protection. The decision of the European Parliament is clear evidence that there is a massive majority of pro-immigration politicians in the European institutions, and they are also trying to blackmail Hungary with this report. We believe that this is why we need a new Commission, a new leadership in Brussels and a new European Parliament, in which non-immigration representatives are the majority. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That is, the People's Party.]] The current proposal for a resolution is a correct and decisive response to the European Parliament, which has gone far beyond its competence and attacked the decisions of the democratically elected Hungarian Parliament on its own authority, so the Hungarian Parliament must answer. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, It is time to at least partially correct their previous decisions in the vote on this proposal for a resolution and finally act in accordance with Hungarian interests [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But this does not coincide with Tiborcz.]] and stand up for the Hungarian people. It has been and will continue to be the case for us; Hungary is the first for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-18	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, another lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-19	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with what my colleague Nacsa Lőrinc has said, this means that the Brussels-Soros-Strasbourg Triumvirate, as you have mentioned, has now been known to you, and has continuously and systematically wiped out Christian values from the everyday fabric of Western Europe's economic life and social life. They are now targeting Central Europe and pouring their poisoned arrows into Hungary, which retakes the Christian national values in its heart. For eight years now, ladies and gentlemen, we have been under constant fire, and their latest poison arrow is the Sargentini report. So the fight continues and has reached a new stage. Remember, this confrontation is not about what it shows itself to be, but about the struggle between the culture of life represented by us and the culture of death represented by them. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's not give up our ancestors' dreams. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's what we're fighting for, because we don't want to give up!]] Do Not Give Up Our Principles and Standards [[Noise, interruptions from opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] That is, let us not give up our freedom and our faith in God, even if the voices of opposition representatives, the European Parliament and the Commission seem to be louder than anything else. They are not the majority, but, as you can see, a loud minority. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, their secularism has a damaging effect on our national Christian civilization. It is damaging, because they want to exterminate the faith in our souls by coercion, rules and decrees, saying that they will rid us of the superstitions of the past, of the entire Jewish-Christian tradition they hold wrong. But we don't want any of this. We do not ask for their ungodly, so to speak, progressive future. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Paranormal phenomenon. It's an incredible story.]] we do not ask for the thought police, which also wants to punish us by voting on the Sargentini report. [[Noise.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us not give in to the blackmail of the pro-immigration elite in Brussels, which has just been shown in the Sargentini report adopted by fraud. Do not give in to the blackmail of the Triumvirate, because Hungary is our first! They're trying to brand him. [[Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] You, along with the Triumvirate, are trying to brand Hungary, and even if you try to brand us as pro-government representatives and Hungarian people, we will not let that happen. We will not allow it, because we will not give up our Christian values. We're not gonna let them take away the right to border surveillance. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Nobody wants to marry her! Landing policy! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then don't sell any more bonds!]] We don't let them decide who we Hungarians live with here in the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, we are talking about an organised Muslim invasion and a reservation of space against Europe. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Ghaith Pharaon!]] and against the indigenous population itself, and due to the migration policy of the opposition and the Triumvirate, Islam is spreading like wildfire, which directs its total ideology against Christian culture. We are beginning to believe that migrants are no longer pretending to want to fit into European society, but are immediately taking up space and creating a parallel society according to their laws, because they do not share our Christian values in Europe, they do not share our European laws. Today's leaders of the European Union, instead of taking action against these tragic processes, are making the situation worse rather than solving it because they deny the importance of Community values. All of this has the result that the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumphate is deliberately disrupting Christian family, Christian national and Christian religious communities. Today's leaders in Europe relativity the truth and say that there is no good in itself and no good in itself is bad, so there are no values, so to speak. Today's leaders in Europe believe that there is only the absolute human freedom that is being maintained towards extremeism, which means that values, including Christian values, are deliberately eradicated. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Tibor Navracsics! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Talk to the Commissioner!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The future of the Western world, therefore, is or will fail to see whether Europe and its leaders and you will succeed in quitting Christophobia. Remember, the real Europe is not like Brussels Coliseum, it is free and free to bear the marks of Christianity. The mark of the real Europe is the nation state. Allow me a relevant quote from St. From Pope János Paul:, Freedom is a continuous conquest, it cannot only be possessed. We'll get it as a donation, but we'll keep it in combat. Donations and fights: both written on secret yet obvious cards. You pay for freedom with yourself / that is why we call it freedom, which / while you pay it allows you to become yourself/owner again. This is the price we enter into history, / we can touch its eras. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, We are proud to be attacked by our thousands of years of values, especially because we are living in a period of real freedom in Hungary. [[11.50]] Remember, the truth is on our side, so they're terrified of us. They are terrified of us because every day they have more and more followers in the area of resistance to the Triumvirate. They fear us because every day more and more nations contradict their lying and immoral empire. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, our future, the future of Christian national Hungary, is entirely up to us or down. For us, because it is in our souls that we decide whether Hungary will last for thousands of years. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Anyone who is not with us is against us! Long live the party!]] Let us work together more, let us do more for our country. Let's go, Hungary, let's go, Hungarians! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker and group leader of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-03-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to take notes here, and I have tried to follow how many times they will tell me that immigration, migration, Soros, Brussels, and I have now heard Strasbourg enter this circle, but I have actually given up because I have thought about Miklós Radnóti, although he would be very offended to hear me mention it in a sentence when he said that the person who is flying over the plane really is a map of this landscape. [[Tamás Vargha: Not in! István Szilárd Németh: Sponge on it, Comrade Pelikán!]] Once again, it has been proven that this is what we are talking about, and it has once again proved that the leather chair of luxury aircraft does not show Hungarian reality. Once again, it has been proven that on luxury yachts, you lose your sense of reality. That was the case with Viktor Orbán, and I see that you have done the same. However, we came to Parliament today to talk about Hungarian reality, because that is what this report we are debating today is about. I am sorry that the Prime Minister has not been able to take part in this debate, and I think that the next plane will start to watch another match, but it is important that we can be here in this debate, and I am glad that we are debating it, because there is an opportunity to clarify some issues once and for all, for the first time with regard to migration. The Prime Minister and you say that this debate is taking place between anti-immigrants and those who want to make Hungary an immigrant country. [[István Szilárd Németh: There is no mistake in this.]] If this is the subject of the debate, then we have a simple task, because we can end it once and for all today. We don't want it, we don't want it, we never said it, we never thought we had to make Hungary an immigrant country. [[István Szilárd Németh: What new ideas!]] Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, Yes, the migration crisis is a serious problem at European and global level, and it is also a Hungarian challenge. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, It should also be clear that we accept the existence of a fence and that we can be extended daily by the government for the migration crisis because of 6-8 border violations. It's our soul, period. Then we agree on these, so this debate can be concluded, we saved you a lot of nerve cells and perhaps billions of forints for the Hungarian taxpayers. 'Cause the debate on migration is elsewhere, there's a break point elsewhere. As Donald Tusk said, the President of the European Council: while some want to solve the migration crisis, others want to use it, the migration crisis remains unresolved. And you and your prime minister want to use the migration crisis and not solve it. Use it because it's the basis of simple-minded, simple-minded government. We, on the other hand, are pro-European Hungarian left-wingers, patriots, who want to solve the migration crisis. And it is clear to the contrary that the solution is only possible with European cooperation, but you deny this cooperation, which is an obstacle, because you want to use this crisis for your own internal policy goals. While billions are being spent inciting in Hungary, they provide Hungarian settlement and European settlement opportunities for some corruption-suspected pocket money to those responsible for the start of the migration crisis and interested in maintaining it, people linked to the Russian secret service or even the Syrian dictator's moneymen. You know, it's not the pro-immigration party who doesn't take kindly to the government starving children and women on the Hungarian border. In fact, it is the pro-immigrationist who hinders the resolution of the crisis. Because if the crisis were to be resolved, they wouldn't be able to instigate any more and start steering. Hungarian health care should be fixed, Hungarian education should be fixed and wages should be settled. But you can instigate, you can't govern, because instigation serves your power interests and your enrichment. And we've come to the point of what the Sargentini report is about. Not about immigrants, but about us Hungarians, about our everyday life, about our rights, about our opportunities. About the Hungary you're looking at from luxury airplanes, you're looking at it from above, and you're looking down on it. The Hungary where you, the Fidesz elite, have more than the majority. About Hungary, where the Fidesz elite has privileges, the majority has a legal disadvantage. About Hungary where Fidesz-elite is subject to different rules than the majority. That's what the Sargentini report describes. We voted in favour of this report because they want to break the privileges of the Fidesz elite and eliminate the disenfranchisation of the majority. That's what we're trying to eliminate. Whoever wants to keep this up didn't vote for the resolution. Anyone who wants to change that has voted for it. Those who do not want to change want to take away from the Hungarians, who voted in favour of the report, want to give it back to the Hungarians. While you are treasoning, let us be clear: anyone who has not voted in favour of this report is right to sell this country day after day to the fidesz oligarchs. Anyone who voted in favour of this report wants to take back the assets of this country from the Urizing Fidesz elite and redistribute them under transparent rules in the spirit of pure competition. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right, that's right! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The betrayal of the country and the betrayal of the country are related to this report, and this is how it relates to the patriotism of its voters. So let us see why we claim that this report is about us Hungarians, about our rights! Because this report states, among other things, that equality of justice has been damaged by the violation of the independence of the judiciary, that the prosecution operates under political influence, while ordinary people's affairs persist. Is that what you're arguing? You think that's a lie? Really? Then let them face it and discuss it with, for example, the Kálmán-Piko István sitting here or Éva Himmer, the Quaestor-damaged. They're sitting in the box. Explain to them why they didn't get their money back from your friend who stole it. Or say to their eyes, sit here, say to those foreign exchange-damaged people whose problems have not been solved for several years, perhaps decades. While you buy luxury castles, your friends spend time in your hunting castles, you put people on the streets. They sit among us and come to listen to today's debate. Look at them and explain that while they were lying to them about solving their problems, they were waiting in line and were waiting for compensation for almost a decade. You want to create a separate court with political appointees, and the vast majority of Hungarians are waiting years to deal with the truth. In fact, by adopting a new civil order, they make it almost impossible to go to court. They took away the right to appeal to the court from the Hungarian people. And while your minions or even the prime minister's relatives are urinating, spending their time in castles or in million-dollar hacks, they take hours, thousands of families lose their homes every single day. While the European Anti-Fraud Office also revealed the abuses of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office did not act. At the same time, the mothers of sick children are being dragged out of their homes by policemen and made homeless by government-supported banks. And you don't want to solve homelessness, you want to punish it, and when the report records that there is no suitable housing for families in vulnerable situations, because yes, this is part of the report, I trust that you have read it, you don't have to argue with us, but with the mother who passed out from humiliation and vulnerability in the hands of the police. [[12.00]] I wish to you that your retina would burn a picture of evicted women and evicted mothers. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! That's right! Applause in the benches of MSZP.]] The report is also about them, the disenfranchised Hungarians, the Quaestor-harmed, the foreign exchange victims. The person who voted for it defends their rights, who rejected them, is destroying their rights. When the report concerns the lack of brakes and counterweights, the grinding of the Constitutional Court, it sets out the end to legal certainty, for example, it can be discussed with Mrs Ács, who came today with the former head of the model economy in Kishantos. We don't have to go far, he came here today to look them in the eye. I want you to look him in the eye. She is the woman who created one of Hungary's pride, so that you can take it away from her, to give the land to your own minions. Tell him about independent justice, I'm sorry that the Prime Minister's Office is not here when the final court ruling was annulled by the Fedicated Constitutional Court. The person who voted in favour of the report also defends the rights of Mrs Ács, who rejected her, who serves the interests of the Fidesz green barons. And speaking of which, is that the cynical smile that runs through your mouth when we talk about the Prime Minister's private computer, his private flight, and you react that way, does that smile freeze on your face when you have to face the people whose rights have been violated for years? Be able to tell the people whose homes and homes are being taken away because of a few million-dollar loan, that you have been flying 17 billion-forint private jets to watch football games for 30 years now and in the coming years. [[Robert Szigó: Shame on you!]] And tell those mothers who care for their sick children at home that they are not worth 6 billion forints to acknowledge their work and efforts! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They'll put that in their pockets too!]] How do you explain the HUF 17 billion private jet to them? They'd have enough supplies for three years if the Prime Minister gave up his hobby. Look at that and say it in their eyes. [[László Böröcz: Wow, you're slipping!]] Yes, and I am still talking about the Sargentini report, which also calls for the care of socially disadvantaged Hungarians, the care of the elderly, the care of the singles, the rights of workers, and this is all part of the report. There are also those among us who are confronted with their disenfranchisation as part of the report: representatives of trade unions who have been deprived of the right to protest, the right to health at work; this is also precisely stated in the report. The Vice-President of the Public Works Union, who is present, can also tell you why the vulnerability of public workers should be improved, or why teachers' freedom of teaching has been deprived of education, and why workers' rights cannot be represented, while Hungarian workers' wages are now lagging behind not only Western Europe, but also Bulgaria and Romania. Now, they represent the people who fled this country because of you and left our country. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] On the other hand, you make your oligarchs rich, steal the media, buy everything and everyone. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] "Business ingesting companies, endangering the freedom of business, and Lőrinc Mészáros also spends more on luxury yachts, but not on at least paying the average wage to his employees. My fellow Members here refer to the fact that the debate is, in fact, the overture of the EP campaign. Yes, I agree, I agree, I do, but some things are worth clarifying first. The debate in the European Parliament revealed that Fidesz was on the periphery of extremist parties. Together with you, concrete fascists, Eastern Communists, radical nationalists and black belted troublemakers voted [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right! Applause in the benches of MSZP.]] But the report was supported together by the middle forces, the Christian Democrats, the Social Democrats, the Liberals, the Conservatives and the Left. You're in the anti-European camp, and we're staying in the pro-European camp. [[Crying from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Let's hear it from the same place.]] You choose the East, we choose the West, and that really makes the next EP election more important than ever, because you are already on the periphery, and you would also include Hungary at a time when there is a key debate to be fought in the next EU budget. In fact, your government is financed by the European Union, and it is no wonder that European taxpayers have had enough of their money to make the prime minister's circles and his family richer, while catching up with the country has slowed down. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] When EU payments stop because of your corruption, you go to the local authorities to look for them. The real stake is, therefore, that your anti-European policy can deprive Hungarians of their resources. We will protect the stability of the Hungarian economy from your corrupt and gambler policy. We have represented and will represent it in the EU elections [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In 2008 the IMF loan was very good!]] that European money is given directly to people instead of corrupt governments that these funds are not for the enrichment of oligarchs, but for the development of health care, education and wages. This is the real stakes of this election. Ladies and gentlemen, We are all interested in avoiding the application of Article 7. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yet you voted!]] We have done what we have to do for ourselves: we have tabled the laws that, if you vote for them, this threat will immediately be lifted, and the rule of law can be restored in Hungary, because this report, honourable House, is about us, not about Syrian refugees, but about disenfranchised Hungarians, about the country where Fidesz receives most of the Hungarians. Hungary must be protected from disenfranchisement, corruption, from the need for periphery in Europe, from the arrogance and power of its own government. [[István Szilárd Németh: They drove you away so...]] The majority of the European Parliament, both right and left, have taken the first step, now it is our turn. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-22	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Helmets on!]] the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Listen up!]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-03-23	Dear Parliament, Honourable pro-government majority! Your proposal for a resolution is a lie in content and a despicable intention. He is a liar because this proposal for a decision is not about what is contained in the so-called Sargentini report. He is a liar, because Hungary is not the subject of this report and is the target of criticism, but the activity of the Hungarian government, and he is a liar, because according to their proposal for a resolution they are protecting the Hungarian people while you betray the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! Applause in DK's ranks.]] It is despicable, because instead of responding factually and objectively to what the European Parliament is referring to you, your criticism focuses on the personal stigma, respect and questioning of the reporters and those who support the adoption of the report. Ladies and gentlemen. This is the property of dishonest systems. We've seen systems like this, bloody systems. [[Sándor Fazekas: You did! Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] They've all failed, just like you're gonna fail. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]] In your intention, it is depraved, because you cowardly, dare not take responsibility, hide behind the skirts of the people, because they are weak, because they are timid, because they know that their arguments do not stand up in an objective debate. You, please, are not only your prime minister, as I told him a good week ago, but certainly the political camp that supports him, political, moral and human villains. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! Interview from Fidesz:...the best way is to choose! Sándor Fazekas: Mirror! Mirror!]] Let's keep moving. I sense you're making a terrible effort to make this report look like something that isn't. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Let's go!]] : behind this report would be a debate between the European majority in favour of immigration and the minority against it, including you. What? That's not true. It is not so, because the focus of the debate is on what kind of world the majority of European peoples imagine for themselves, how they want to live. In this, I do not dispute, indeed, one of the issues is what to do with the immigration pressure on Europe, but it is far from the only question, and I also think that it is far from the most important issue. [[12.10]] And although it is possible to classify the majority of the European Parliament, it is nevertheless the case that the representatives of the European Parliament, who represent the majority of the people of Europe, who are directly and proportionately elected, believe that everything they have done to Hungary under their governance, goes against all that the majority of Europe's people would like to receive for themselves and would like to see together in Europe. This is the main subject of the debate: what kind of Europe are we imagining? That's the point of this debate. Because, after all, what is the world that we, with this European majority, want to see and live in? We wish each other respect. We really want freedom, a responsible and controlled government. We wish for democracy, for the rule of law. We wish for freedom of religion, clean public life, a non-corruption world, independent justice and the press, a world-neutral state and social security. This is the world we want. And most of the people of Europe believe that you are not saying this world, but that you are the leader of the EPP Group of the European Parliament, formerly one of the supporters of the Hungarian Prime Minister, it seems that it is systematically being dismantled. That's the subject of the debate. In this debate, a piece of element is a piece of element! How we think we should deal with this migratory pressure, by the way. Because that's why we're watching. Tell me, would it be respect for each other what you're doing? ! Is it that if someone's against you, it's a traitor? [[István Szilárd Németh: His eyes will be blown out!]] Is that a communist? Is this your respect for each other that you can't even imagine being a good patriot thinking about the world other than what you think? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] It's each other's respect for anyone who defies you. [[Intruder from the Fidesz line: Rubber bullet!]] Can Hungary be afraid? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Porcupine!]] You can be quite sure that you're going to go into your private world, you're going to lose it, you're going to step on it, you're going to make it impossible? [[Intruder from Fidesz: Hedgehog!]] That's what you do, and that's what you did in this country. Are you proud of yourselves? [[L. Simon László: Rubber bullet!]] Are you proud to have created such a world with your public authority? [[Interview from DK's ranks: That's right!]] Would the responsible and controlled government be that today, not the government is afraid of voters, but the voters are afraid of you, of this government? [[István Németh Szilárd: 73 percent show this!]] Is it natural for Europe to create a multitude of institutions so that the power of the government is not unlimited and uncontrolled? You have taken all the measures you have taken over the last eight years, from weakening the rights of the Constitutional Court to transforming its personal composition, through the transformation of the system of administration of the judiciary, and I will not continue, which makes it possible to do exactly what we think is important in Europe that the government does not rule over us, but serves; that the government organises the social dialogue at the end of which it organises most of its decisions with smart and wise decisions. [[György Balla: And we lied in the morning and at noon and at night! Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] that the government and its opposition are not fierce enemies of each other, but their partners in finding the best solutions. [[György Balla: Then we died to do nothing for two years!]] That is not what you are doing, you are creating a civil war mood in the country, where the country is divided into a duality of national defenders and traitors. What you are doing is far from what the majority of Europe and the vast majority of Europeans would like to see. [[István Szilárd Németh: Have you asked them what they want to see?]] It would be religious freedom that, according to your new church law, a political body tells you [[István Szilárd Németh: They don't want to see you, that's for sure!]] What shared faith can establish a church? What do you think we have to do about the operation of the church of shared faith? We have the right to verify their legality. There is no freedom to establish a church as a church community. What kind of immorality is it, please, that the church that sends the sanctity of the Prime Minister's marriage, which baptizes his first two children, is no longer granted church status and right after European decisions? ! Who are you, frankly, that you wish to rule and judge God and faith by violating the right to establish a free church? Who are you, please? ! [[Interview from DK's ranks: That's right! Applause from the DK benches.]] It can't be true that they don't read all the reports that since 2010, ten of Hungary's key people, including the close friend and son-in-law of the Prime Minister, have won 10 percent of all the money in the public procurements, nearly HUF 2000 billion! What kind of world have they created where the possibility or loss of success is determined by how close to the back half of the current Prime Minister? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Please, that's the problem with you. And you have been refusing to discuss these questions for years. Yeah, we want a world-neutral state, yeah. Our Christian roots are important, they soak our culture, our customs, but that does not mean that we do not share the common European heritage that Church and state do their work separately. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! Applause from DK's ranks.]] Because we know precisely that it is a multi-faith, multi-religious job of the nation and the state to represent and protect all its citizens, no matter what faith, what religion they share. If you do not understand this, there is indeed a serious debate between us, but this is still not a debate about what needs to be done with refugees. We are saying, yes, that they refuse to waste an orphan's word on all the cases that are with the Quaestor-harmed who are with the evicted. They know exactly who we're talking about. We're not talking about this in this country. You end every debate by saying, please, that we are traitors, we want to take refugees into the country, we want to sell the country's culture, we want to be flooded by people with foreign cultures, beliefs and religions. [[György Balla: He's right!]] You, please, lie quite simply, taking into account your most direct authority interests. But let me tell you something about asylum, because apparently that's all you want to talk about, factually. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let's talk about Czeglédy Csaba!]] Was there a refugee crisis in 2015? Some 1.5 million refugees arrived in Europe. How much is coming this year? [[Gábor Bányai: Prime number? Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] 50,000. About 3 percent of that. [[István Szilárd Németh: He is lying!]] This 50 thousand was less than in the years before 2015 considered normal. This year, about one person arrives illegally at the Hungarian border. One! If you think this is a crisis, you're holding a very sloppy government, to be honest, which is inadequate to perform its basic task. In contrast to Italy this year, about 20,000 will arrive with nearly 200,000 refugees arriving on shore. [[György Balla: They won't let the ships dock!]] And to be clear: this was not solved by the 200-mile Hungarian fence, please, the length of Europe's maritime and ocean borders is more than 65 thousand kilometres, but by two agreements, the EU-Turkish agreement and the agreement between Italian-North African countries, tribes and groups. That's what happened, please. And let me tell you something else: to consider everyone illegal, it's more than inhumanity, it's in your own language, it's unChristian. Some come from Aleppo because they were bombed like Dresden at the end of World War II. Not to lay hands on them, ladies and gentlemen, that is simply inhumanity and inhumanity. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: Inhumanity?]] That's what you're doing. There are, of course, economic immigrants, no doubt. In their case, it is safe to say that you are sorry, but we cannot do this, we will not allow you to cross the borders of Europe. There's no debate between us. We have an argument if you think everyone is a terrorist; we have an argument that they do not realize that there are people here who are saving their lives, and we have an obligation to give them a hand. And not because we have international treaties, but because we are human. And frankly, that's what I'm going to represent even if you think we're traitors. Everyone here is Agent Soros, according to you. But, say, Tajani, President of Parliament, member of Forza Italia, do you know, Berlusconi's party, EPP, Agent Soros? ! [[12.20]] Donald Tusk on the right, President of the Council, Polish, Agent Soros? Juncker, President of the Commission, Christian Democrat, Agent Soros? [[From the ranks of the governing parties in the same way: Yes!]] Please, I'm afraid you're out of your minds. [[Defiance on the pro-government side. Applause in DK's ranks.]] You're communicating the one non-deprecated. Frankly, you're worse than the former Communists of the '80s. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] In the '80s, at least, despite the class-warrior atmosphere, there were intelligent educational experiments, conversations, how to make the country better. Dozens of journals were trying to open up a meaningful debate. But to make it even easier for you: János Kádár's system [[Intercoms, noise on the pro-government side.]] He has gained recognition and respect among Europe, thatcher, Schmidt, mitterrand. Please, today, the European leader will not meet in Hungary. Not because meeting the Hungarian Prime Minister became a question of shame. They say that the Hungarian Prime Minister is strong and influential. If you're strong and powerful, they come to you, they knock. They turn away from the Hungarian Prime Minister, the dog doesn't really want to come here, and he can only go to Kyrgyzstan, the nomadic horse games. Well, please, this is a huge international achievement and recognition. Politics can be deceived, but history can't, because history doesn't judge who governs for how long, but based on what he did while he was in government. [[Intercoms, noise on the pro-government side.]] He was able to honor, honor his nation, serve the common good, honor. You may believe yourself to be the winners of this policy, compared to that, I think you will be the losers of history. Overall, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this report shows that your policy is dead to seemingly successful history. Sooner or later, we're gonna bury him, and we're not gonna mourn you or your politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-03-24	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-03-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Once again, I can start by saying that it is instructive to be at the end of the list of speakers, because we can listen to almost a complete debate and we have the opportunity to respond to what is before us. At the same time, I must say that I really don't need to do this. This debate is shocking to me. In fact, we should be talking about national issues here, and we have seen in recent minutes that a large number of Members are having excellent fun. Moreover, there is no mention of what this particular proposal for a resolution bears in its title, of the defence of Hungary's sovereignty. It was expected that this debate in Parliament today serves two basic purposes: opening or launching a completely false European Parliament campaign and, on the other hand, a very serious distraction. It must be said that if we are talking about sovereignty, sovereignty of the country, Hungary can defend its sovereignty if it is a strong, developing country in all respects, a country that can provide security, a livelihood for its citizens, and it can protect its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Your government is trying to draw attention to the fact that, in recent cycles, their government's performance has bled this country out in almost all respects, delivered it and created a situation that today is far less capable of defending its sovereignty than it was a decade and a half ago. Let us be specific why I say that we can see the introduction of a false European campaign strategy. First of all, you say that in your last speech, Prime Minister, you said that the future of the European Union is determined by the forces against migrant and migration. I can deny that right away. I have spent a few years in the Committee of the Regions, and there I have seen directly that a real debate on the causes of migration has not yet started, so neither right-wing nor left-wing politicians are debating, talking about how to deal with the causes of migration. In fact, the European Union itself has not yet started to address this issue because of its own incompetence or the inadequacy of its political elite. In this respect, it is incomprehensible for me to talk about a political elite, political forces that would oppose the migration crisis. Neither is Fidesz. Fidesz also reached only symptomatic treatment, and did nothing to eliminate the causes. That's why it's a fake argument. Not to mention that, of course, it distracts attention from extremely important issues, it distracts attention from the fact that there are a number of structural problems in the functioning of the Union that must be resolved in order for the Union to be able to fulfil the role that we have intended and intend for it. And on the other hand, this distraction is an extremely serious sin on your part. You claim that this Sargentini report was born because you are being attacked because of your migration policy. This can be factually refuted. We have explained in detail our views on the Sargentini report. There are problems with the report, there are some ideological chapters, ideological findings, but overall, we can say that the main message of the report and the majority of the findings are very real and represent a serious political warning and serious political criticism to you. Minister Gulyás said that the liberal wing of the People's Party voted in favour of this report. If we look at the politicians who voted in particular, there are some of them who agree perfectly with, say, Fidesz' ideas on migration. So you can see that what you're saying about this is simply a lie. And the facts, the person who voted for it, prove that your claim is not real. The LMP took the view on the issue that this Sargentini report is a very serious warning and a serious picture of the situation of the rule of law in Hungary. At the same time, this was accompanied by a plan of measures, the sharpening of a certain Article 7, which envisaged, where appropriate, the withdrawal of the country's right to vote. We have shown that the report contains, in most cases, real findings, but in no way do we agree with our vote to a procedure which may end with a withdrawal of the country's right to vote. So we have declared that the criticism is justified, but we cannot contribute with our vote to the withdrawal of the country's right to vote because of the government's mistakes, thus punishing Hungary and the Hungarian people. This is why the representative of the LMP did not take part in the vote on the report; he took part in the debate on the report. This was an extremely important policy resolution on the part of the LMP. Then let's look at why this whole debate is a distraction. As I have already said, Hungary will be able to defend its sovereignty if it is strong, it can protect its citizens, and everything that is important can be created, and if Hungary is strong enough to meet the social, economic and environmental challenges already visible. At the same time, your policy in the last two cycles and its consequences have made this country vulnerable. I am pleased, by the way, that a number of my fellow opposition Members before me have referred to these questions and have been able to go beyond the specific findings of this political work and have really talked about the issues which are very important components of a country's ability to preserve its sovereignty. Compared to this, you can basically and exclusively talk about migration, where you can only get to symptomatic treatment. But then let us not go around this issue, let us briefly talk about the issue of migration. The LMP has a very strong opinion on this. We consider it extremely important that there should be an honest, exploratory dialogue at EU level on the causes of the migration crisis, at all, I would add, about the assessment of the migration crisis, because we can see, unfortunately, that there are still very serious contradictions and hypocritical opinions in the Union. So we need to explore the reasons and finally start a real action in order to deal with the causes. Because if this does not happen, and so far it has not happened, it will be impossible in the medium term to oppose the growing migratory pressure, and this is a very serious issue for all of us. And here I am arguing with some of my fellow left-wing Members. This is not just a problem in Europe. If we consider ourselves a community, if we consider ourselves members of European integration, members of the European Union, then we must see that if this is a problem anywhere in Europe, then it is also a problem for us. In this respect, we must engage in a community of fate with countries where this is already a specific social problem. So this is also a real problem for us, and as European citizens, we must say that it is a matter of fate for us whether this question can be dealt with. The LMP believes that I can define very important principles that the EU's external borders must be protected. Illegal migration must be stopped, because if we cannot do this, then no policy can be talked about in this connection. We also fully agree that immigration policy must remain national. But, and I would like to emphasise this once again, we need to start the action that, besides exploring the causes, can really address the causes, which we can end up with, and that must be our goal, so that basically everyone can thrive in their homeland. I am arguing very strongly here with the former Prime Minister, who spoke directly to me, who denies that this crisis is a real crisis, and claims that this question would calm down and be resolved. [[12.30]] This is an extremely serious attitude, and this kind of narrow-minded, blind attitude, which unfortunately appears not only in national, domestic politics, but also in European politics, basically drives the water to the expense of populists. Faced with this, it is a global migration crisis, a crisis of a kind that is unprecedented, and it requires express wisdom and foresight to deal with it. Unfortunately, I don't see any trace of this, by the way, among the politicians and members of the Hungarian government, and unfortunately I don't see it in European politics either. But let's continue, and these will be the most important questions: what else is needed to ensure that Hungary and only one country can preserve their sovereignty? I think that these real problems, these real issues, we need to talk about them, a little bit away from the political campaign theme presented to us by the governing party and the government. Hungary will be able to maintain its sovereignty if young people do not have to flee out of compulsion. If the crashing health system is replaced by a well-functioning health system. This is a very current problem in the light of daily political developments, and you cannot refuse to do so in communication or propaganda either. We can maintain our independence if there is an appropriate education system that meets the challenges of the age. If we can reduce energy dependence if our economy is prepared for the challenges of the new age. If Hungary becomes a strong, predictable ally, it will not be marginalized by the government's failed policy. We can protect the country's independence when the countryside is strong again and the smallest settlements have a positive future again. We can preserve the sovereignty of this country if we do not have a government that institutionalizes corruption, but a government that eliminates it, fights corruption. And if we have a government that does not serve the interests of great power, such as Russia or even China, immediately if it believes that its short-term political interests or the economic interests of its own or hold yard so require. You have failed in this regard. And then let's look at the facts that I can confirm that you have failed. Let us start with the current problem: there is a serious shortage of workers, a very serious shortage of workers in health care. Last time I checked, nurses in the intensive care department at the lip hospital said they thought wages were humiliatingly low and working conditions were bad. Now, a quarter of medical students want to work abroad. Last year 600 Hungarian doctors went abroad. Currently 300 GP practices are unfilled in Hungary. Under Fidesz administration, the number of hospital infections has doubled, 20,000 of which we know. You practically paid for health care. In 2012, only 35 percent of the population used private health care, now reaching 35 percent. In Hungary, one in four people lives below the minimum living standards. The problem of foreign exchange lenders has not been solved, which has already been discussed in more detail by one of my opposition colleagues. Dozens of families lose cover every day. In Hungary, 180 people froze to death in the winter of 2016-17, fellow Members. In the last two years, 80,000 fewer children get regular child protection discounts. From 2007 to 12, the number of children living in relative poverty increased from 7 percent to 17 percent in Hungary. According to a study, 30 to 50 thousand people starve every day. The number of minors who starve periodically, on weekends, during school breaks reaches 200,000. 41.5 percent of children in Hungary are at risk of poverty. With their one-key tax, you have achieved a brutal increase in the gap between the rich and the poor. There is no increase in the civil servants' fund, the care fee is humiliatingly low. They don't raise family allowances, they don't help single - parent families. The education system, as an important element of our sovereignty, is that there should be a system of education that meets the challenges of the age, and in real terms the sector, education, will receive less in accordance with your budget. Today, a third of college students can't finish university for financial reasons. During your governance, the number of students who started their studies in higher education has fallen tremendously, from 109 thousand to 72 thousand compared to 2010. From various international surveys, we can see that the quality of the education system is also deteriorating. These surveys clearly demonstrate this. On the basis of the various recent statistics, we can see that the decline in Hungarian areas continued to an astonishing extent. There are still 4 regions in Hungary that are among the poorest 20 EU regions. It should be added that most of our regions have deteriorated their competitiveness classification and competitiveness indicators. 12 out of 19 counties are in a rather scandalously bad economic condition. Not to mention, the statistics do not clearly show that, unfortunately, there are huge differences in regions as well, and there are certain peripheral areas that are in a very hopeless economic situation. This is also related to the issue of national sovereignty, fellow Members. Overall, the result of your governance, your destruction, is that 60-80 thousand and hundreds of thousands of young people were forced to leave this country every year. You are denying this problem, which can only be adopted as a national tragedy. Cynically, they say that the common European labour market works, or they say that young people are going to learn a language. That's not true. The fact that more and more Hungarian children are born abroad in the motherland also contradicts this fact, so it can be seen that young people are not going to be migrant workers, but are starting a family in most cases. This is your balance sheet, ladies and gentlemen, this is the balance of the Government of Viktor Orbán. With these I can confirm and this is only one detail of your mistakes, your sins, that you have destroyed your government in the last two cycles to the extent that the country has become vulnerable and far away from being able to preserve its sovereignty. You have failed to defend Hungary's sovereignty. Also in terms of recognising this problem. The Parliament's proposal for a resolution, which has been tabled to us, is even poor for a political campaign publication, and therefore the LMP's group will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-10-03-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Szabó Timea, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-27	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the part of the ruling party, it was said that this report does not take into account the wishes of the Hungarian people or is directed against the Hungarian people, in fact it is directed against Hungary. You do not take into account the latest survey that 43 percent of Hungarians would have voted in favour of the Sargentini report, and only 33 percent said that they would not have voted in favour of it, and 51 percent said that this report was about the work of the Orbán government, condemning it, not condemning Hungary. So instead of educating the opposition, you should pay attention to what the Hungarian people think. But let's look at the report in a little bit more detail. In the first chapter, the operation of the constitutional and electoral system is the subject and the main concern of the report is that citizens have lost the right to appeal, inter alia, to the Constitutional Court. The majority of governments prohibited, inter alia, the Constitutional Court from deciding on budgetary law. This is how the 2010 private pension fund abduction could not be negotiated by the Constitutional Tribunal. The second chapter of the report is about justice. The report also suggests to the government that judicial independence is under constant attack. We see that now they want to destroy even the rest of the independent justice system and establish their own Fidesz courts precisely so that, among other things, corruption cases cannot be discovered, even if the unexpected situation arises that Peter Polt might investigate these matters. But it also includes the re-choice of Péter Polt, which was necessary to prevent you from going to prison for the time being, and we hope that it will happen after the change of government, because another faithful puppet, who covers up every crime involving a fidesz politician, like Péter Polt, would have been difficult to find. Chapter three is about corruption. There is no time to list all the thefts and thefts you've done in the last eight years, but it is enough that your so-called enemy, the European Union, has just had enough of their thefts. Among other things, the thefts of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, who is currently under investigation in the European Union, and even Péter Polt was forced to be forced to investigate István Tiborcz himself, even though he did everything in his power not to do so. Unfortunately, because of your industrial theft, Hungarians can fall from 500 billion forints of support, so it's not nearly as funny. In chapter four, the Sargentini report also fears the Hungarian people about privacy and data protection. After all, Viktor Orbán and his government have violated laws by force that allow them to observe virtually anyone by secret service means. And they will also pay attention, as Viktor Orbán himself told us on 15 March that he will deal with all his opponents, anyone who disagrees with you. [[12.40]] We know that we have no illusions that neither our phone nor our apartment nor our families are safe from you. Well, that's what the Sargentini report is about, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, not your fictional fairy tale! In chapter 5, the report describes how all government critical voices have been silenced over the past eight years. They've turned the public media into vile, lying propaganda television and radio, they've shredded the Népszabadság, they've shut down the Hungarian nation, they've taken away the radio frequencies, and from there only your nonsense flows. Your Watcher, quoting the 30s, is making lists of government opponents, government critics. In Chapter 6, unfortunately, the Sargentini report did half-work on the freedom of scientific life, because they only talk about the closure and persecution of CEU. In this area, you carried out the worst attack, including against the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, just after the report was completed. We know that the Institute of Economics is already under threat of elimination, and this is to drive away the world-famous Hungarian researchers. Chapter 7 of the report mentions the new church law, in which you have abolished churches that carry out tasks that you do very highly for themselves; helping poor people, helping the poor, helping the poor, helping rural families, helping children who are either schooled or sick. I hope it becomes clear what the Sargentini report is about; it has nothing to do with what you people have been talking about for hours. It is quite clear that the report condemns not the Hungarian people, but your mean, inhuman, heartless policy, which has been done in the last eight years. Chapter 8 of the report discusses how, of course, civil society organisations that do the charitable work they refuse to do in your place are trickyly banned. Do you remember how I presented the list of more than 20 pages here to Viktor Orbán that more than 400 civil society organisations are victims of your insane persecution, NGOs dealing with autistic children are dealing with cancer children who are living in poverty? [[György Balla: Which was banned?]] they're dealing with it. Chapter 9 of the report concerns violence against women. You are about to consult us, women, while refusing to ratify the Istanbul Convention, the Convention on the Elimination of Violence Against Women, which has not been signed and ratified for many years. For years, we have been talking about all kinds of reconciliations and coordination, while we know precisely that 80 percent of women who have been victims of violence die from domestic violence in Hungary, a woman every week, a child every month loses their lives, but you refuse to deal with this, you want to carry out completely unnecessary consultations with us women. The last-to-last chapter of the report deals with refugees alone, so it is difficult to say when 11 chapters do not address refugees and 1 chapter deals with the fact that the whole report is actually about immigration. So, once again, your lie has been exposed. But let us turn to the last chapter of the report, Chapter 12, which is perhaps the most important, and which you do not happen to say a single word about, and this is the livelihood in Hungary, the poverty, the lack of hope, which you have pushed millions into over the past eight years. Among other things, the report condemns the fact that you have declared homelessness a crime. You government representatives look down on anyone who doesn't wear a Gucci suit or a watch worth 12 million forints, such as Rachel Orbán. For you, it's a virtue to show off your wealth, your wealth, which, in your case, is from stolen property. Do you realize, government representatives, how easy it is to become homeless in Hungary today? How could a teacher, an engineer, get on the street for a divorce? And then we didn't talk about evictions, the foreign exchange credential problem. You are a great Christian, isn't that what was said in KDNP's speeches, in Fidesz's speeches, in the government's speeches, to defend Christian values here. Did Jesus turn his head from the poor, the poor? Are these the Christian values you want to protect in Hungary? You guys are phony Christians who don't give a damn that millions of Hungarians today can become like this. [[He snaps his fingers.]] the minimum pensioners who are described in detail in the Sargentini report. The report highlights that the minimum amount of old-age pension is the lowest in Europe. Well, what do you think, honourable Christian representatives, pro-government representatives, that tens of thousands of elderly, sick people make a living out of 28,000 forints a month? Antal Rogán spends more on one lunch next door than 28,000 forints than you give tens of thousands of pensioners in Hungary today. Orbán Rachel's watch costs 450 times what you give to elderly sick people every month. But the Sargentini report also mentions the minimum amount of unemployment benefit, which is the shortest and lowest in Europe. You have taken the payment of this allowance from nine months to three months, while there is no man who can find a job at all in that time, rather than emigrating abroad; for no reason in the last eight years, more than half a million young people have gone out and fled from your administration. The report also mentions invalidity benefits. Do you remember how Viktor Orbán defrauded the disabled, how he cheated hundreds of thousands of old people in Hungary today who cannot work? Of course, it became clear that these people were not cheats, but we have not heard any apologies from you or Viktor Orbán since then. Is this the Christian value you want to protect in Hungary and Europe? There is a housing crisis today, honourable Members. It's the last time a piece of this came out in the press. There is a housing crisis, which affects nearly 2.5 million people, i.e. one in four people in Hungary, whether there is a roof over their head or whether they can pay the rent. People live in overcrowded homes. There are 170,000 kids whose apartment doesn't have toilets or holes in the roof or moldy walls. Hundreds of old people die in their own apartment every winter because they can't heat it. And what are you doing? They're not doing what they do to help these people, they're prohibiting the police from providing data on frost death. Is this the Christian value you want to protect in Hungary? Under Viktor Orbán's governance, the number of foreign exchange lenders who cannot pay for it has increased from one million to two million. Almost one million implementation procedures are under way in Hungary today, according to Minister Trócsányi. And you say today that 2018 is the year of families. 2018 in the Orbán government is not the year of families, but the year of banks. The banks, which closed last year with record profits thanks to Viktor Orbán, are highly distinguished from the countries of the region. In the year of the Orbán families, the profits of the Hungarian banks, not the families, increased by 40 percent to nearly 700 billion forints. Is saving banks one of the Christian values that you want to save, my honourable pro-government colleagues? Since May 1,300 families have been evicted, or more than ten families are on the street every day. With the money you'd rather give to the banks, let alone the 1,300 families, but the many of them could have been saved. Once again, are these the Christian values that you want to save? For eight years, a 40 - year - old mother has lived with her six - year - old son in a panel apartment in New Palota. He bought it in 2010, then he took up nearly HUF 7 million as a single. You've got ten days until you move out. The bank canceled the loan contract years ago, but they just forgot to notify the family, or just, don't give me the God, let's say, help. Two months ago, in Ferencváros, he forced a disabled woman and her elderly couple around the age of 50 to leave the police's home. They took out 3 million forints of loans, and after the repayment of 1.5 million forints they owed 13 million forints. After a loan of 3 million, they owed 13 million forints. That's how you saved the Feds! But there is also the mother of a girl in a coma at the age of 12 who, because of home care, cannot pay her credit and who also have to move out of their apartment. But speaking of home care: today in Hungary more than 45 thousand mothers raise their sick children alone. Unfortunately, we know that today, according to official statistics, 90 percent of sick children are cared for by mothers alone at home. Sadly, in nine out of ten cases, your father leaves your family where a sick child is born or becomes a permanently sick child. And instead of helping these people, are you talking about raising their salary from 52,000 forints to 60,000 forints? That's the help? ! Is this the year of families? Is that the Christian value you want to save? To note, this alleged discussion, which Bence Rétvári is constantly talking about, only the real home care organizations were forgotten to invite. They're fooling mothers again while you're preparing for a 6 billion forint propaganda war instead of spending that 6 billion forint on families. [[12.50]] And then we didn't talk about falling health care, about Miklós Kásler talking about the Ten Commandments again, while the hospitals were collapsing, there were no doctors, no nurses. Just yesterday, the Secretary of State for Health resigned. I hope that you will go into hospitals, my honourable pro-government colleagues, and you will be anointed with a Bible instead of receiving normal care, or you will receive medication if you get sick, or your relatives! Recognize, fellow members of the Government, that the Sargentini report, just like the Hungarian people, condemns your work. Cancel this vile, decoying decision and start dealing with the problem of Hungarian people! Thank you.
u2018-10-03-28	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Mrs Anett Bősz, also with a 15-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What has been going on in the last few weeks is a disgrace to the Hungarian government, but unfortunately it also reflects very badly on our country. Today, the conditions of Copenhagen criteria are virtually non-existent in Hungary, which means that if we were to apply for admission to the European Union now, we would be rejected. Today, Hungary cannot guarantee its citizens either the rule of law nor the stability of the democratic institutional system, nor the principle of equal dignity or equal treatment. A market economy capable of standing up to EU competition is still a reality, but this would not have been achieved without the two Marshall aid funds from European funds, which we owe to the net taxpayers of the European Union. They are the people, they are our fellow Western Europeans who are now concerned about the Hungarians. They are the ones who have recognised that the governance of the last eight years has brought serious violations in the lives of Hungarian citizens at both individual and group level. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, There are system changers sitting in your benches; people who understood very well at the end of the eighties what it meant to fight for the norms of the rule of law, for the democratic institutional system and for the establishment of a new Republic of Hungary, in which we have equal rights and equal dignity both before the law and in the eyes of other citizens. I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is not personally involved in this debate, even though he himself has experienced what it means to fight as a Democrat in a country without state standards. I'm so sorry you forgot so quickly what you fought for back then. Because being young is no big deal, we can pretty much all do it once in a while in our lives, and some of us have even learned to form a party. It is a big question who can remain a Democrat; who understands that every four years we do not choose a despot, and that we can never use a democratic mandate to destroy the rule of law standards, we can never use it to cause injuries to the various levels of the democratic institutional system that allow power to be exercised indefinitely, which can take away equality of law from anyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Our friends are in the West, where, after World War II, society understood that the first and most important thing to do is to organise our communities is the principle of equal dignity and equal treatment. Only by respecting European values can we remain Europeans and have noticed from the blue poster campaigns that they fear for our culture. We respect the fact that collective and individual freedoms are guaranteed in the Member States of the European Union. At the moment, you are unable to implement such a government. That's what the Sargentini report is about. It's not about what you wrapped it into. It is only a second-rate matter that you have a debate with the western Member States of the European Union on where we stand with the refugee issue. It is important to talk about whether or not they guarantee state-of-law standards and the stability of the democratic institutional system. It is important to talk about whether anti-discrimination measures work at home, whether the European values that belong to everyone who is a citizen of the European Union work at home. Unfortunately, I have to say that not in Hungary. The Sargentini report is about the above, and it's a common lie that they would have attacked our country with it. That's not true. If someone attacked the Hungarian citizens, it is the system of national cooperation. It's not an illiberal state! This is absurd! There's no such thing as illiberal democracy! There is a liberal democracy, which creates a rule of law and constantly makes sure that equality of law prevails, that the equal dignity of citizens prevails. That's what you don't know and don't want to talk about. Of course! Because that's where they don't do well. Not to mention that if you have asked Frontex from the EU Member States, you have asked us to have a common European army, you have asked us to do it together for European border protection, then why are you now outraged when our fellow Europeans are determined to do so? So I have to say that even in the question of border protection and refugee, it is a common lie that the Hungarian government is talking about. That's what the Sargentini report is about. It is about you taking me away from the Hungarians; they have taken away equality of rights, democracy, they have taken away the republic. And what did they give you in return? Erzsébet's voucher for the slums. This can't go on! [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Many EU Member States have already demonstrated their concern for Hungarian democracy. Many European politicians have demonstrated that their goal is not to attack Hungary. It is about the Hungarian government attacking its own citizens, that is what this report is about, not what you say. It is about the need for equal rights for those who were willing to do something for this region, not only for Hungary, but also for the countries of Central Europe, to become a net contributor in the European Union and to finance it so that we can develop ourselves. But, unfortunately, you have restored this society. They were led to believe that at a time when our history should be about strengthening the rule of law, strengthening democracy, strengthening our citizens in the belief that they were responsible not only for themselves but also for their community, then you made them believe that they should not be deprived of any other rights. That's what Sargentini's talking about, not what you're talking about. Everything else is a common lie. So please discuss the relevant issues. Please do not repack the messages of European politicians. These politicians are worried about our country. [[Rumble on the pro-government side.]] These politicians would like European citizens to be entitled to equal rights in this Member State as well. That's what Sargentini's report is about, not what you're talking about. Finally, I would ask you to adopt, after this debate, a genuine Sargentini consultation, drawn up by the Hungarian Liberal Party to discuss the relevant issues, not what you are constantly talking about. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-03-30	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to a few things, not to abuse the time frame, and that others would like to speak. I'll try to get in line. [[13.00]] Jobbik has said that this report has been rejected by abstaining. This is ridiculous! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And when you're staying...]] So when you were a national party, you didn't vote to reject something. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Are you talking about us, my friend?]] a report, such as the Tavares report [[Dr. István Apáti: Worry about yourself, not us.]] and you have suggested that the Members who voted in favour should listen to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why do you always talk about us? Z. Carpathian Daniel: You're hot for the Job-bi!]] Now they have a completely different policy. To address the issues of substance: the Head of the Group referred to the State of the Year speech and, if I quote correctly, the European Union has already come to its senses. We have talked about this. I would also suggest that you look at the resolution published by the European Commission on 12 September. It is not at all about the fact that the European Commission would re-examine the issue of security and hear the voice of European citizens, because in this resolution, the title is already very meaningful: they are talking about the expansion of migration opportunities. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] For economic reasons, it is proposed that there should be a blue card system so that immigrant workers can come in. They're pushing for introductions again... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We weren't there! Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault that you don't understand!]] It is also suggested that there should be pilot programmes with African countries. They would not, incidentally, spend double the money in the next seven-year budget for migration-related purposes. In addition, the harsh proposal is to take away the right to border protection from Hungary. Consider, for example, how the Chancellor of Germany said. He clearly says that sovereignty should be given over. [[Constant intervention from the benches of opposition parties.]] And here is a question to be clarified: if a Member State indicates that it does not have the power to defend itself, otherwise it does not. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: You have already delivered this with the Lisbon Treaty...]] It is a devil's thing that Frontex helps. But countries that can protect their borders cannot be taken away. [[Gergely Harvestó: That's what's in the proposal! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Then why didn't you take it back? Gergely Arató: Read the proposal!]] Check, Congressman, they clearly state that sovereignty must be handed over. Check the lines, please. As regards the MSZP's speech, they also spoke about living issues, including health care and education. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We didn't say that...]] As far as health is concerned, there is 505 billion forints more available compared to the last year of left-wing governance. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] As far as educational matters are concerned, more than HUF 600 billion is available. As far as the issue of foreign exchange lenders is concerned, we always have a strange feeling when people who are trying to lecture us about the whole phenomenon, this terrible foreign exchange loan, have allowed us to be freed from a well-functioning home creation program [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Dániel Z. Kárpát: 2001! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You made the law, my friend! Zsolt Gréczy: Shame on you! Gergely Arató: Since 2010...]] And by the way, if they had the chance, they'd do it now. And speaking of helping the credible, the MSZP brought this up: the MSZP did not support the ban on foreign exchange loans. It did not support restrictions on interest increases. The MSZP did not support the final repayment. They didn't support the forinting. [[Interventions from the benches of MSZP and DK.]] And as for the eviction moratorium, the House voted on this on several occasions, and there was a time when 6 out of 48 MSZPs supported it in total. [[Gergely Arató: Where is this in the resolution proposal?]] After that, it is quite hypocritical! Regarding migration issues, Bertalan Tóth said that they had no intention of making Hungary an immigrant country. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right.]] Then why did they attack the anti-quota referendum? [[Gergely Harvestó: Because it was unnecessary, because...]] Why did you deny, too, Congressman Ujhelyi, that there was a quota at all? You said it in the camera. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] Then, after it was denied, why was it voted in the European Parliament last November? Why did you vote for him? And if we look at the decisions here, the decisions at home, they didn't support the physical border lock, they didn't support the legal border lock, and they didn't, by the way, support the unconstitutional fundamental law amendment. [[Intercoms from the DK benches, among other things: We agree that it was unconstitutional... well said, it was unconstitutional!]] And now they're trying to make it go away. Amazing! And as far as Syrian refugees are concerned, the faction leader tried to make it look like it was the question of Syrian refugees. According to 2017 figures, EU figures, not ours, 9 percent of immigrants claim to come from Syria, including those who claim to come from Syria only to obtain refugee status. That's the thing. This also means that the others are all economic immigrants with all its consequences. And you're trying to deny it. [[Interview from the DK benches: This is not so...]] As regards the speech by the Democratic Coalition, it has been said that the migration issue that we consider important is a question, but not the most important issue. The fact is that reality contradicts that. [[Gergely Arató: Ferenc Gyurcsány is the group leader called... Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] 3 million illegal border crossings have taken place since 2015. It's not us, it's the EU authorities. Hundreds of people died in acts of terror. Even if they try to deny the connection between immigration and terrorist acts, reality shows otherwise. [[Intercom from DK's benches: You let them in...]] A lot of choices, lots of choices prove that this is the crucial issue in Europe today, and there is a reason for that, that migration opens virtually every question that is relevant in politics: who we are; what we will look like in decades; whether we live here in a hundred years' time. And by the way, if you're interested in matters of livelihoods, it's also affecting them. According to Germany's estimates, it costs nearly 700 thousand forints and equivalent euros for one month's supply of a single immigrant. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not for us! To them!]] So if you opened the gates, there would be a lot less money for education, health care and foreign exchange credentials. [[Interviews from the benches of opposition parties, including Ágnes Kunhalmi: Lőrinc Mészáros...]] The Democratic Coalition also said that fewer people arrive at the southern borders of Hungary. That's true, by the way, but let's just say that because of the southern border lock, it's the border lock you protested against. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Gergely Arató: Less people arrive at all the other borders, my dear Secretary of State? Are there fewer people arriving at the Croatian border? They're not coming to Italy because of the border lock? Greece?]] You were there, and you were crossing that border when you could, and you demanded loudly that this border lock be nothing. And now you're referring to border protection. And one more thing, it fits as a closing point: Ferenc Gyurcsány may have used the word "rogue." Speaking of democracy and human rights, because you often refer to this, let me say that we do not accept at all lectures and such qualifications from the man who has been shot at by his own citizens. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Harvester: That's a lie! You're lying like a machine! Intruder from DK's benches:...you were going to get me shot into the crowd!]]
u2018-10-03-32	Dear Parliament, It's still a very long debate. I see how many speakers there are, so save your nerve cells. [[Defiance.]] It's a two-minute lap. The first speaker is Congressman György Balla, representative of Fidesz.
u2018-10-03-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, you can't respond to everyone in two minutes, but let me say this to all of you that the Sargentini report, in fact, is an attack on the government's migration policy, is nothing more justified than the fact that you, unanimously, all of you want to lie about it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Anyone who is not with them is against them! Gergely Harvestó: What a beautiful thought!]] I would like to say a few words about Ferenc Gyurcsány, if I may. It seems that the former Prime Minister woke up this morning, looked in the mirror, and then screamed at the sins he had committed for 15 minutes. [[Dignity and intervention from the benches of DK, including Zsolt Gréczy: The European Parliament did not condemn the Gyurcsány government, but you!]] You did the right thing, because this is an excellent position in the role of the leader of the opposition. The one I'd like to respond to separately, if I may, is Jobbik. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Because there is no other example of the Pharisee behavior that you have in the case of migration. Ferenc Gyurcsány, clearly, he wants to take the refugees in, let them into his own home, of course, for a few days, but you're lying. [[Dr. István Apáti: What?]] Do you remember that after the referendum, your vote on the constitutional amendment was necessary? [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] When we had a national consultation, you said we needed a referendum. When there was a referendum, they said we needed a constitutional amendment. When it was a constitutional amendment, they voted no. (Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!) Now we have resubmitted the same amendment to the Constitution. What did they do? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What have we done?]] They voted yes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What's wrong with that?]] What's the only difference between the two? The fact that there were no two-thirds of the governing parties in the previous term would have required your vote. Now you have two thirds, you don't need your vote, and now, of course, you support it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: So what? It's democracy!]] You said in the European Parliament that your group leader said that this report represents the most serious communist times. And what did they do in the European Parliament? Your vote might have been necessary. Has this vote been given in favour of Hungary? No, they didn't. They refused to help Hungary again. [[A statement from the benches of DK: Fidesz doesn't even deserve this...]] There's no such thing as a Pharisee! [[Peter Ungár to the president: Time! Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's all I want to say!]] We know about the others, they want migrants, we know about them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They want to buy voters. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-03-34	Congressman László Varju, DK! [[13.10]]
u2018-10-03-35	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a drop in the sea, I would like to point out what a lie you are committing. I'll quote you and your prime minister: we would never attempt to silence those who disagree with us. Orbán said this in 2018. [[György Balla: You're talking right now!]] The question is that you losers, who, by the way, support this lie, are forced to back up and play it, or are co-conspirators in deceiving people and lying to them. On 8 October 2016, Hungary's largest newspaper, Népszabadság was wiped out on the face of the earth, almost every day, almost two years ago, as one of the elements of electoral fraud. By the way, the members of the last editorial board decided to organise a demonstration on this day every year until the freedom of information and freedom of expression are complete. Even then, the Democratic Coalition stood by them, protesting your actions, your lies today, and we still resisted you. Now, for the next few seconds, I ask you, fellow Members, pro-government representatives, if you are losers. [[Peter Cherry: It's you!]] then be quiet, and be careful with a seat to pay attention to what they are doing. Version two, they're expressing you as a co-conspirator by shouting out loud. You can decide which of the two. Thank you for your attention. [[László Böröcz: I don't understand! Noise from the pro-government benches. Laszlo Varju stays standing. Intercom from the pro-government benches, are you frozen? László Varju, before you take up your seat:,Thank you for your attention.]]
u2018-10-03-36	Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP! You can listen to your own time frame. [[Defiance.]] The house rules make that clear. Now it's Congressman Ungár's turn.
u2018-10-03-37	Thank you very much. I would like to say the substantive comment later, and now I have a lakonic question for the majority of the government. I've experienced a few months since I've been in Parliament that everything that's very important is being pushed through by an emergency procedure, so everything, starting with the smallest bill, including everything. However, the more they want to say this, the more they want to use all their time for two things: to have the debate with their own party group in the Hungarian Parliament and to have the debate held in the Commission with Tibor Navracsics. If you disagree with what the Commission is doing, call Tibor Navracsics, you must have someone's phone number, I imagine, and tell him. You voted in favour of the Juncker Committee. The Member of the European Parliament, May Other, voted against the Juncker Committee. That's the difference. You, Congressman Deutsch, stood in front of the posters in Heroes' Square and told the Hungarian people after they played a peacock dance that the Juncker Committee should be supported. The Juncker Committee is politicalising against the European Union, but it has not just begun. This was already started when you, Mr President, stood there and encouraged the Hungarian people to vote for them. We were already opponents and opponents of the Juncker Committee, and there are other groups that have done the same. The other thing that you have to account for is that you have a debate with a committee that is your political ally, in your party family, that you want to discuss a debate within a party family with the Hungarian people. We often have a debate with our party family, but we do not make a parliamentary decision about it. This can be done, my fellow Members, at home, at the Fidesz Congress, between four walls, not at the plenary session of the Parliament. One more short sentence. I know exactly how convenient it is for you to have ex-Prime Minister Gyurcsány tell you things here, and you'll be able to get it on Echo TV. But also answer the question of Lóránt Keresztes, about the state of South Baranya, what is happening in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-38	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2018-10-03-39	Mr President, Dear House, After the representative of Fidesz accused others of a Pharisee attitude regarding migration, he left the room in a two - minute circle. This, I think, tells me quite a lot, even though I waved, he left, even though I told him that I was going to answer it now. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's why!]] For what Fidesz has been doing in recent years is a high school of double-lucent politics, which will be taught in universities. In itself, Jobbik did not vote for one of the fundamental amendments to the law in order to draw attention to the fact that the largest corruption mechanism that could be introduced by the government in Hungary should lead to the establishment bond scheme, so that we do not only prevent the resettlement of the poor, but also of the rich migrants, this is a responsible position. History has confirmed us, as the Government of Hungary has led to this disgusting corruption mechanism. Yes! When it was not a quota, but a question of immediate action, about the physical border lock, which had been created for the idea of the mayor of the better, the fence could also be ordered to defend the military... [[Turning to Gábor Varga:]] You might think that's funny, Member. Press a button or be braver. But when the defence had to be ordered there, my fellow Members, whose vote did it take to have the two thirds? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] It's quiet now. Now, yell at me. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Whose vote did it take? Secretary of State Dömötör, who helped you? The Betterman's vote allowed the defense and the police to go there. I would add that we were already looking for an independent border guard. You say everything about your position that in 2015 Viktor Orbán demanded a world quota in the United Nations. Who do you think I'm stupid? [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right! That's right! That's right.]] Who do you think I'm stupid? ! Through the Habony Media, they're trying to wash across a country. You're not gonna make it. Indeed, some points in the Sargentini report quote the methods of the darkest communist times. But what Hungary's current government is doing is also doing. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-03-40	Dear Parliament, We will now return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. The first among these will be the representative of Fidesz, Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go. [[A voice from the opposition benches: Whoo!]]
u2018-10-03-41	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The House is discussing a proposal for a resolution in Parliament on a report which we can safely say that if Comrade Vishinsky had understood, he would have licked all ten of his fingers, he would have pressed a peach on Sargentini's head and said that the apple had not fallen far from the tree. This is true in reality, too, because we know that Miss Sargentini has a strong relationship with the Dutch Communist Party, which, in 1956, supported Hungary's invasion by the Soviet Union, and made a statement that it is very right for the Hungarian revolution to be crushed by the Soviets. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and returned to the road to Stalin, which this Dutch Communist Party, which is the predecessor of the current Dutch Green Party of Sargentini, has fully approved. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Peach, apple, Visinsky and 56!]] In fact, this is why we cannot be surprised at the basic idea that started the whole investigation, because she has undertaken and admitted to saying that Ms Sargentini has not done any comparative work or analysis. So it completely ignores the fact that, by the way, the accusations made against Hungary and those facts are exactly the same in countless other European Union countries, or even tighter, rougher, even more polarized, as it is in Hungary; thus setting out the performance of expressing it more clearly in the first sentences, just to avoid misunderstanding, that it will be the most harsh double standard, because it is only looking at Hungary and does not make any other comparison. We should not forget, of course, that it is possible to criticise the Constitutional Court or the relevant legislation in Hungary, but let us not forget that there are European Union Member States where there is no Constitutional Court. At the same time, I would not call them anti-democratic or countries turning their backs on the rule of law. So I think that, in fact, so many words should not be put to the report itself, and that has been thoroughly discussed by analysts, politicians, there has been a long debate in both the European Parliament and the LIBE Committee and at home about how this report should be interpreted. I would like to talk about the broader context that we need to see in order to make the right decision. First of all, I recall that all Hungarian representatives swore an oath to Hungarian independence, Hungarian self-determination, independence [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's why!]] And the constitution. The Sargentini report is swarming with points that clearly show that they want to take Hungary's independence, independence, freedom and sovereignty away from Hungary. [[13.20]] Many people in the debate, however, who do not necessarily agree with all the decisions of the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian Parliament, understand this problem correctly, have supported us because they said that if the Treaty on the basis of the European Union's cooperation provides that an area will remain in national competence and that it will not be included in the concept of sovereignty shared by the Member State, the Union has nothing to do with that. Therefore, at a time when we look at many questions in the examination of the media law, the Constitutional Court and the Constitution, we can say that this is a far-reaching violation of Hungarian independence, Hungarian freedom, Hungarian self-determination, so if the Members take seriously the oath they have taken here on the Constitution, saying that it is so helpful to me! I can only say that this good Lord, I hope, will be more compassionate in the final hour with those Members who have turned their backs badly on their vows. [[Gergely Harvesto: Do you think you're a believer of God?]] the vow they made to the Hungarian electorate when they said that Hungarian freedom, Hungarian independence and independence were protected. [[Gergely Harvesto: You must protect him against you! Not from the Sargentini report!]] Therefore, in fact, if we want to establish a position, we can have countless political debates with the Union, but it cannot be a question that Hungarian freedom, Hungarian self-determination, must be protected. We are only exercising together with the Union powers that we have contributed to. That's how it is in the Fundamental Law. What we didn't contribute, we didn't give up. And here I would like to turn to what, in fact, I would like to suggest to you, in relation to the whole situation, the case of Hungary's defence. When Hungary decided to conclude international alliances to ensure the security of the nation, the security of the Hungarian people, the freedom and independence of Hungary, we joined together, and I note that we also asked the Hungarian people to authorise it when we joined NATO. But there was no question either before the Hungarian people, before the European Union or before any organization whether Hungary would renounce the protection of its own territorial integrity and the protection of Hungarian borders. We didn't cancel! Therefore, quite rightly, when illegal migration started, Hungary immediately started to defend itself. Of course, we have seen that protection takes time, because of course no one was prepared in 14 to build a fence on any border of Hungary, not even on borders where there is no Schengen border, but on countries that are not part of the European Union or part of NATO cooperation. We didn't want to build a fence there, and no one wants to build a fence on their own, in good spirits. It's expensive, and if we can, we have to protect the country differently. But when hundreds of thousands of people appeared, the least of which was the crowd that the Western media preferred to set up in the pictures and on the Internet, because, basically, the coming people should look at the statistics, 80-85 percent of the Hungarian Defence Committee discussed several times, 80-85 percent of the young men under 30 years of age, could not be noticed that Hungary was being seriously attacked, I note that the European Union and the Schengen Convention, on which Hungary took our international obligations, the Schengen Convention and, by the way, the refugee conventions that we have adopted in Geneva seriously as a single country, in the strictest sense of the word, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. But neither the asylum conventions nor the Schengen Convention say that everyone is free to enter the territory of the Union or Hungary without any order or procedure. Therefore, as soon as the country noticed that we would be under attack and hundreds of thousands of migrants were preparing for the territory of the country illegally and otherwise in the Union, we immediately started preparing for this. Let us not forget that at this time many politicians of the opposition made the statement that the whole thing was a fidesz bluff, no migration, that it only serves to distract attention from, so to speak, other problems, and indeed, there were those who, when the fence was already being built, did not yet have a fence, Gábor Vona, we may remember it from the TV, they did not have a fence, they went to the half-finished fence, and said that this was not a solution, it was not good for anything, so migration cannot be stopped. But Hungary's defence, the protection of Hungarian borders, has proved that it is also a matter of determination. The Hungarian Defence Office, the Hungarian police, has set up a border lock, a technical border lock, for which the Hungarian Parliament has created a legal border lock that protects the country; which ensures that our international obligations are fully fulfilled. We are complying with the Schengen Convention, and the Schengen Convention clearly states that it is possible to come in here with a valid right to prove that someone has a permit, a visa, a passport to enter the Union, or, if they are not persecuted, to apply for asylum in the appropriate procedure. It cannot be overlooked, fellow Members, that 95 percent of migrants are not cooperating in any way. He's not cooperating in any way! There is no such thing as good faith, because when hundreds of thousands of people crossed the Hungarian border, passports and official documents could be swept in the border zone. Many times, they refused to reveal their own names. And it also turned out, as regards statistics on them, that the vast majority of them had come through a safe country, where, according to the United Nations Asylum Conventions, they should have stopped to apply for asylum or refugee status or protection status. So this is not about good faith; it is not about hundreds of thousands of people driven away from their own countries coming to Europe. Everyone could see, broadly and clearly, that this is an economic migration, which is a fundamental threat to the security of Europeans, a fundamental threat to their identity, their civilisational traditions, and therefore it was clear to everyone that it was necessary to protect ourselves. By the way, it's a constitutional obligation for the police and the soldiers. And I have to say that none of the few who, by the way, made this decision in the Hungarian government believed that the Hungarian police and the Hungarian border guards could defend the country. Let's not forget, Greece, one of the largest armies in the European Union [[There is no border guard!]] You can't protect your country. Let's not forget, Italy is a military power with enormous resources in the world's top ten economies, unable to defend itself. And for various reasons, no one thought that we should take literally what we have otherwise undertaken in international conventions, to comply with the Schengen conventions and to comply with the United Nations Conventions on Asylum. Hungary did this. Then the question arises: how then is this immensely great attack? It is clearer than day: it goes against this position of the European Union's mainstream, the Balliberian approach, who think that we need to build a multicultural and migrant society or a mixed society in Europe. We are not saying, by the way, that we would now advise the French, Dutch, Italians, Germans to build their own country, but we ask with great respect that this is our country. Let us decide what kind of Hungarian society we are building. We don't leave that to Brussels, we don't leave that to the Balliberal elite. Hungarian society can decide for itself how it imagines its future. I note that in many cases, you have stated this in an unmistakable way, not only with national consultations, but also with regard to the elections. This is what the elections were about in Hungary to a significant extent: who is protecting Hungary? [[13.30]] The Hungarian people thought that it was Fidesz and KDNP who could be entrusted with the protection of the country, who could be entrusted with the development of Hungarian society, who could be entrusted with the safety of the people, and, of course, to the tens of thousands of soldiers and policemen who, under all circumstances, protected the country and the border in accordance with their oath. Thank them. Instead of thanking them for the immeasurable, otherwise unfair attacks they were forced to hear from the opposition, because even soldiers and policemen listened to either in parliamentary debates or in Commission debates. They must have thought something of themselves, but they listened with the utmost respect and did their job. If it weren't for them, Hungary today would look like many countries in Western Europe [[László Varju: Like Austria!]] or many areas where the presence of migrants is otherwise an unmanageable problem, their integration is completely unsolved, hopeless, and apparently the political elites there do not have much idea of what to do, but the voters do. I therefore believe that when the Hungarian Parliament [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] then decide on this proposal for a resolution, in agreement with the Hungarian voters, who takes Parliament's oath seriously, has no choice but to support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-42	Thank you. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik.
u2018-10-03-43	Mr President, Dear House, He came to the stage of the debate that perhaps we could try to operate with reason. The Jobbik faction is trying to do that. At the same time, I will tell you that I am deeply disappointed by the attitude of the pro-government fellow Members in the fact that, in essence, they are already calling him an oath-breaker and a scorner of the Constitution, and they are calling those who may not share his position. So it's in the government's attitude that anyone who isn't with him is against it. The darkest communist times are therefore quoted by the attitude of the Government of Hungary, not just to this question. I would also like to say that several passes of the Sargentini report itself refer to the same darkest ages. So it is very far from me to accept, take and quote opinions on my country abroad without any control. I will not do this now, because what is in this so-called report under the title of Hungarian racism and so-called Hungarian anti-Semitism is an abomination, it is very, very far from reality. Obviously, I can't identify with this kind of fabrication. However, if I am asked whether the guarantees of the Hungarian rule of law exist, in Hungary there is democracy in the classic sense, my answer is clearly no, since the Fidesz government, the Fidesz government's excesses implemented in recent years, brutal... the use of independent bodies as a political club, the attempt by the opposition representatives, parties and party groups to make such opinions have taken away the possibility of a clean certificate from Fidesz, and in this situation we also do so. And the general justification presented for the substance before us contains amazing allegations. For example, the Government of Hungary declares that the Hungarian government has been in the position since the start of the migration crisis that uncontrolled immigration poses a huge risk and the rest. Here at the beginning they lie, because here in Parliament, in a manner which can be traced back to the minutes, when, at the height of 2015, better Members warned me of the atrocities that occur at the Debrecen migrant hostel and around other complexes, of the abuses that occur, and that the number of arrivals in the border band has increased, here, in this Chamber, the State Secretarys of the Party have stated that there is no such problem, Hungary would deal with this issue in all respects if there were such a problem, but they have stated that there is no such problem. We are talking about the same year that Viktor Orbán said in the UN that he saw the need to introduce a world quota. I really am not trying to tease you, but I would like one of the pro-government Members to stand up and instruct us on how this world quota wording is going to come together with the government's position and rhetoric today. I am not told by the bullying, but in order for the outside world, abroad, to be able to speak with one voice towards the international scene, the Hungarian Parliament, as you are asking us to do so, must at least disperse these debates. I would also like to say that the terrorist threat and cultural risk contained in the general justification is an absolutely real, absolutely legitimate basis for debate, and this debate should be carried out by us; I just think that one of the worst mechanisms of corruption in recent decades is the settlement bond business, which has, inexplicably, been carried through by this government, the mechanism with the greatest threat of terrorism and cultural risk, which, by the way, we can list from the entire history of recent decades, the person who has been introduced into the halls of tens of thousands of residence permits and citizenship, who has undergone very weak screening, clearly proves that the government's intentions are not honest, is willing to do anything for good money. Secretary of State, ma'am, let's be honest with each other. If, in the case of a bond mechanism, the intermediary company is a number of intermediary companies, one of the largest is a company registered in the Cayman Islands, which carries out the mediation work for ten billion-dollar agent profits, if it doesn't reek from afar, I don't know what it is. Explain to me the national economy's interest in giving tens of billions to intermediate companies registered in offshore tomatoes, when you claim that you wanted this programme because the country was under financial pressure. I've been going back to the Minister of National Economy's speeches for the whole year. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I couldn't find a voice that would have indicated that the Hungarian economy is under this type of financing pressure, and by examining the duration of the entire bond arrangement, we find only a few months when Hungary couldn't have been financed cheaper from the market. So it is a net lie that the national economy needed this corruption mechanism. This was needed by the Fidesz-KDNP, which discredits its attitude towards the entire migration policy. I would also like to say that we will have a great deal of debate about the quota. Allow us to feel the personal success of our political community that, after our stand-up, for which we got cold and warm, the bond construction was finally terminated. I consider this to be a huge achievement, because I claim that if we do not stand on this issue there and then, we will sell tens of thousands of bonds. This happened. But when Parliament voted on the day-to-day action here, so whether there should be a defence at the fence, Jobbik immediately secured the two-thirds. Obviously, if we are looking for a consistent attitude on migration, it is worth examining who said the same thing in 2015 and who says the same thing to this day. If we have to hold a debate in this regard, I will be the one to deal with it, since all the elements of Jobbik's programme have been valid and legitimate ever since. I'm thinking of Gábor Vona in terms of a statement that he doesn't think the fence would be enough. Indeed, there has been a hairy statement about this. When did all this happen? During the period when the government was far from ready with the fence, it established a weed, a temporary lock on certain border sections. I've been to the border a lot myself. The entire faction of Jobbik was in the border to gain direct experience. We recommend all of this to you, as it is possible to press a button in a credible way. We saw that the so-called migrants, throwing their blankets on the weeds, walked through that border lock, which at that time clearly did not perform its task, was not enough to stop the mass of the arrivals. So you have every right to say that this is not enough. I would also like to say that we had already proposed that Hungary should have its own border guard. I don't want to get into Lajos Kósa with a pair of feet, obviously it was a slip of the tongue when he mentioned border guards. He knows that Hungary has not had an independent border guard for a very long time, which is a very serious problem, because if we looked at whether the frequency of the various forms of crime has increased in the regions from which the police forces have been led, or if our soldiers had no other task in another field of war, we might have had a surprising result, but I am not sure whether the existence of an independent border guard would strengthen, let us say, your negotiating position with regard to Frontex. I'm the one who says he'll back it up. We better men will give you the support, we'll give you the votes in favour, if there were, if there were such a pro-government proposal. It is strange for me to read the general explanation, and I have read several times that you refer to the data of Frontex in relation to the documentation of illegal border crossings, and it can be said that you are also involved in the same Frontex that you have demanded, with a crooked installation attempt. [[13.40]] Then let's make a point here about the transfer of sovereignty. If anyone in this room does not want to assist in the transfer of another slice of Hungary's sovereignty to the European Union, it is me. I have been a critical observer of the accession process for a very long time, and I claim that Hungary's EU balance sheet is negative, and I claim that it is still the case, only the research in this regard has not been carried out beyond certain experiments of Lazarus Pavics, so we do not have any specific net numbers. But I would like to say that the biggest transfer of sovereignty, which has certainly been committed in a self-destructive and economical way in Hungary, was essentially an unread ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, which Fidesz and MSZP have done together in a large coalition without any critical comments. So please do not try to lecture us on the issue of Hungarian sovereignty when you have enjoyed the greatest transfer of sovereignty in this room. If the question of whether I, as a representative of Jobbik, would like to hand over any small fragments of sovereignty to the European Community on Frontex, then my answer is clearly no. The fact is, though you have demanded a deeper intervention by Frontex, this has now come to light, and some of your leaders, indeed, reject this possibility in complete isolation and in a very strange manner, while the specific framework for this has not yet been worked out. Here we have Tamás Deutsch, who, as a representative working there, knows perfectly that the legislative framework for possible united intervention by Frontex has not been established, let alone closed the debate on how it is currently taking place. It is just now possible to achieve that these frameworks are designed in a suitable way for Hungary. I do not want to transfer any particles of sovereignty to the community, but if Hungarian independent border protection can be strengthened from outside Hungarian control, I say that this is a legitimate basis for debate. If the price was to give over Hungary's sovereignty, I would say that this should be rejected, as a matter of fact. But while this debate has not been framed, the government's negative position clearly seeks to achieve its base political goals and endangers the country's security. Similar irresponsibleness has been experienced several times, and I am not upset by the yellings of my opposition fellow Member [[To István Ujhelyi:]] That anyone here wants to leave the EU, we see the world more sophisticated than you, not everything is black or white, not everyone here is a friend or an enemy, we are able to think in nuances. And when I demand an EU balance sheet, and I will continue to do so, I will demand the EU balance sheet in the interests of my country to see that the resource pumping mechanism, which often works at the expense of Hungary, often in addition to the assistance of the current government, is a strategic contract with multi-company companies, which causes damage to my country. I am interested in this, and as a responsible representative, I can only press a button with such data, but these data have been blocked from public opinion by the current government of Hungary for eight years in terms of collection, or even worse, that it does not have such data itself. I would also like to say that you can debate the two-thirds of the EU's decision, its alleged unlawful nature, the fact is that there were several precedents for a similar vote. The first, as I recall, was about the same age as me, so in 1979 the first vote, when the two-thirds or not two-thirds of the questions were raised, was followed by almost the same set of rules, and then a decade and a half later it came up again. You know very well that no one has contested the legality of this. I think it is not the question of the two-thirds or the smooth majority, but whether the Government of Hungary represents the interests of Hungarian citizens in a responsible manner or not. At the same time, we see that the debate about the whole report is intended merely to be taken to the discourse space around migration, covering our most important problems in Hungary. My main problem, my fellow Members, is that during the period of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, the Hungarian population of the entire Carpathian Basin has been reduced by 700 thousand in eight years. It's a brutal number. This indicates an elimination that clearly threatens Hungary's long-term integrity at the same level as immigration. The problem is that since 2010, the entire Hungarian population of the Carpathian Basin has lost another million, starting from a lower base. So the eclipse, the elimination, the rate of deterioration has accelerated, and you, on the other hand, have not been able to withstand it. Many times they do not, because they forget the Hungarian families and forget the layers that simply fell out of the dwindling social safety net. Again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than 1,300 evictions have been carried out since May in the year you called the Year of Families. This is where my fellow members of the government are sitting. We are invited to many such evictions by opposition, and I myself have visited dozens of times, and often we have been able to stop such events simply by checking the legality of the processes, because they would have had families evicted in an absolutely illegal manner. The last time I invited one of the Fidesz State Secretarys to an eviction like this, either he was too busy or he didn't have the courage to be there, but I'll make you a promise that I'll invite you to all the other events. Come and face the Hungarian reality, look into the eyes of those at the expense of whom you have made a deal with the banks, to the detriment of whom you have concluded an agreement with the EBRD that the banks will not be charged additional fees and fees to save the victims. I would like the real Hungary to come up against you a little bit, talk to the people who are experiencing real Hungarian problems, who would be evicted from their homes yesterday, the day before yesterday, tomorrow or the day after, because we have had very important debates in Parliament, but I feel that they have been separated from reality, and I feel that in the space of reality, you can really only think that anyone who disagrees with you until the last word, the enemy, must be destroyed. We have lived in Hungary before, and I would like to note that we have also survived that era, and we will also survive this era. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-10-03-44	Thank you very much. Mr Tamás Deutsch, Member of the European Parliament, is next. Here you go. [[Lajos Korózs: Let's hear it!]]
u2018-10-03-45	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Since 2015, István Ujhelyi, Péter Niedermüller, Tibor Szanyi, Benedek Jávor, Csaba Molnár and Tamás Meszerics have voted for at least 16 proposals, which enthusiastically welcomed mass migration against the will of the overwhelming majority of Hungarians, urge the introduction of a permanent relocation mechanism, a compulsory resettlement quota system or support the creation of mass immigration channels, which are said to be legal. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! István Ujhelyi: The problem is that you are lying!]] The left-wing, green and liberal MEPs in Hungary have recently started expressing their decisions in Brussels and what they are doing there in the spirit of the Vitrigli dual speech. Well, then, my dear House, let's look at the facts. 1. On 29 April 2015, Mr Ujhelyi, Mr Niedermüller, Mr Szanyi, Mr Jávor, Mr Molnár and Mr Meseric voted in favour of the pro-immigration proposal which states that the European Commission should submit a proposal for the establishment of a binding quota, the allocation of asylum seekers between Member States. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Bravo!]] They therefore voted in favour of the compulsory resettlement quota. 2. On 10 September 2015, Jávor, in his written contribution to the European Parliament's proposal to support mass immigration, said literally, and I quote: "The establishment of an automatic distribution system among Member States, taking far the needs of asylum seekers into account and creating a legal and safe way in the long term. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. On 12 April 2016, Mr Ujhelyi, Mr Niedermüller, Mr Szanyi, Mr Jávor, Mr Molnár and Mr Meseric voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the need to introduce a mandatory mechanism for the allocation of asylum seekers between Member States. Whatever they say, they have repeatedly supported, with their vote in favour of the compulsory resettlement quota. 4. On 18 May 2017, Mr Jávor voted in favour of citing that the Member States fulfil their obligations arising from Council decisions and that asylum seekers from Greece and Italy should be systematically relocated and voted in favour of the commitment of Member States to carry out a permanent monthly relocation. Once again, the mandatory resettlement quota for which Jávor voted in favour. [[13.50]] 5. On 16 November 2017, Ujhelyi, Niedermüller, Szanyi and Jávor voted to promote the path of legal migration. They therefore supported mass immigration with their votes. 6. On 1 March 2018, Ujhelyi, Niedermüller, Szanyi, Jávor and Molnár voted in favour of the pro-immigration report which states that safe and legal routes must be opened for migration and voted in favour of inclusion and integration policy throughout the EU. Once again, they voted in favour of mass immigration and Willkommenskultur. István Ujhelyi, Péter Niedermüller, Tibor Szanyi, Benedek Jávor, Csaba Molnár and Tamás Meserics have voted in favour of every proposal for a migrant party in Brussels in the European Parliament, and already in July 2016 they supported the article of a pro-immigration report on the enforcement of the redistribution mechanism in the context of the migration crisis. And last but not least, certainly to the greater glory of representing Hungarian interests, Ujhelyi, Niedermüller, Szanyi, Jávor, Molnár and Meseric all voted in the European Parliament for the initiative to impose fines on countries that say no to forced resettlement. They did so by knowing well that 3 million 361,000 Hungarian people said no to forced resettlement in a referendum. Ladies and Gentlemen, For years now, they have been working hard to push forward the pro-immigration plans in Brussels, using their mandate in the European Parliament, in opposition to the will of the Hungarian people. For years they have not been in favour of the Hungarian people, but as the best students of Guy Verhofstadt in Hungary, they have conspired with those who represent the pro-immigration majority in Brussels and the interests of György Soros, who want to make Hungary an immigrant country and make Europe an immigrant continent. The pro-immigration decisions in Brussels were supported by their votes, and they are represented here as well. Dear House, The pro-immigration forces have great power in the current leadership of the European Union and in the current European Parliament. These forces also attack Hungary by adopting the Sargentini report because the Hungarian people have decided that our country will not be an immigrant country. By voting in favour of the Sargentini report, MEPs from the left in Hungary have turned again against their own country. For the sake of the pro-immigration majority, they also voted in favour of this lying political indictment, which marks the Hungarian people, their own country. But not only did they vote in favour of the Sargentini report attacking Hungary, but they also gave a dedicated help in preparing it with their own proposals, ideas and additions. In the vote, the representatives of Jobbik and LMP did not stand up for Hungary, the Hungarian people. And the Hungarian people still want Hungary not to become an immigrant country. The Hungarian people want us to do everything we can to protect Hungary from immigration. The Hungarian people want security, and they want Hungary to remain a Hungarian country, where they can raise their children. There is a clear pro-immigration majority in the current European Parliament who consider their mission to change the composition of Europe's population. Members of the European Parliament of the Hungarian opposition are part of this pro-immigration group in Brussels. In next year's European Parliament elections, the opposition MEPs want to enter the EP not for the Hungarian cause, not for the interests of the Hungarian people, but to help remove border protection and asylum procedures from the Member States as part of the pro-immigration side, the launch of the permanent resettlement programme for migrants, the legalisation of mass migration, the activities of NGOs called illegal migration, and the draining of EU development money to support mass migration. They are preparing for such a European Parliament and such a Europe. We are preparing to protect Europe and protect Hungary from this. This is gonna be a big fight, bigger than the one we fought this spring, and a bigger stake. The stakes are that Hungary should remain a Hungarian country, and Europe should remain a European country. Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-46	Thank you very much. Mr István Ujhelyi, Member of the European Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, After Mr. Tamás Deutsch's lie, I want you to hear a true speech. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Although, as we know the system, the ability to communicate, the omnipotence of the media and the behaviour of the master of the system, the main vassal, we can conclude that Viktor Orbán did not come in at the end of the matter that we have been hearing for weeks that he has brought Hungary's defence before the Hungarian Parliament. [[Lajos Korózs: He is ashamed of himself!]] Where is Mr. Speaker László Kövér, who is fooling all European politicians, and where is the Prime Minister, who, apparently, doesn't dare to say to my face and say to his colleagues that we are traitors? Where is your group leader, Máté Kocsis, who on Monday was able to talk about me and my alleged treason that I wasn't sitting in this room at the time? They're out. Because you know perfectly well that you have just kicked yourself, because the stomach of Hungarian society, no matter how many billions are spent trying to brainwash the Hungarian people, Hungarian society does not take everything into its stomach. So now you're going to hear a true speech. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Do you know where the Hungarian Revolutionary Council met in December 1956? Strasbourg. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about MSZMP?]] Do you know that Anna Kéthly, the last Minister of State of the former Imre Nagy government, Béla Király, commander-in-chief of the National Guard, or József Kővágó, mayor of the Kisgazda Party in Budapest, went to the UN on behalf of the Hungarian Revolutionary Council, Lord God, and now they would get it from the Orbáns! and testified in the UN Special Committee about the terror and the system against which the Hungarian people rebelled, and which, with the devastation of the revolution, showed quite terrible domestic conditions and law-breakers? I brought this up because you know what the State Party said at the time, what did they announce about those who reported in Strasbourg and then in the United States at the UN General Assembly, reporting on Hungarian events? They were betrayed at home. Now, this is the pace that you have learned from the pro-state period, this is the tempo on whose behalf and from which you learn much, you are trying to crush the Hungarian rule of law and shape the everyday life of the Hungarian nation in their own image. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You are the successor party!]] Dear colleagues, I'll make it easy for you, and I'll tell you in advance that I'm going to take my speech to three chapters. The first will be to expose Fidesz. They can yell. The other will be about our creed. The third will be a European outlook, which unfortunately will not fit Tamás Deutsch. Of course, I remember when Csaba Dömötör and two of you stood up in front of the Juncker posters in the field of Heroes in 2014 and applauded and campaigned for the European People's Party and Juncker, just the two of you were there. Fortunately, they cannot be removed from online space yet, although there will be a moment when they will try to do so. Dear colleagues, I do not like to read a speech in writing, but allow me to read a few sentences now, because I would like to remain true to the text: we have often been in a situation where the interests of Hungarian citizens were represented by Brussels against the Hungarian government. We must finally become a legitimate, credible Member State, adapting our efforts to the principles and goals of the Union that are shared by all. [[14.00]] In the current state of Hungarian democracy, there is a great need for control, so that it can be called to account for the follow-up of democratic standards from the European Union. To realise that EU membership is only an opportunity, not a jackpot in itself, it is also part of the Hungarian government's understanding that it is not always possible to point to Brussels. The Union is ourselves. The decisions of the EU institutions are not external dictators, but we are involved in them. We are convinced that the enforcement of our common values and principles cannot be considered, that the European Union must be entrusted with the means to continuously enable its members to represent the values and to comply with the principles. Without it, there is no Europe. There is no strong Europe. It is a contradiction if we expect the Union to get the governments of the Member States to follow the rules, but we are reluctant to give this authorisation which may undermine our sovereignty. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Colleague Deutsch! Is that a true speech I read? Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary! Is that a true speech I read? Congressman Louis Kósa! Is it true what I read? All the Fidesz congressmen who've been wailing and treasoning us for the last three hours, right, which I read? No, dear colleagues, George Soros did not write these lines. This is a quote from the official European Parliament programme points of the 2009 Fidesz European Parliament campaign. Well, now you're yelling. [[Tamás Deutsch applauds for a long time.]] I want you to explain to me the right you have to come here to undermine sovereignty. I see you remember your own program, Congressman. But then let me ask you, dear colleagues... [[Tamás Deutsch is still applauding.]] It's stuck with my colleague Deutsch, if Mr. President can help us with the following:...
u2018-10-03-48	I'm good with records, thank you. [[Defiance.]]
u2018-10-03-49	... don't clap for a long time, 'cause I'm gonna give her some more unpleasant moments. Let me ask you if you think it's treason if a leader of a political party in his own European party family puts forward a resolution in which he demands a very significant package of measures against his country's government and demands that the country's government be punished. Is this treason? Treason? I can't hear you! Well, they've been shouting so proudly. Do you know when this happened? [[Dr. Pál Völner: You got shot.]] 2003. János Áder explained the presentation of Viktor Orbán following the meeting of the Christian Democratic International, in which Viktor Orbán condemned Hungary, and I quote to you literally not to make an objection:.The resolution condemned not Hungary, but the exercise of the socialist-liberal coalition. Yeah, so that wasn't treason? Then let's just say we're starting to take this off the agenda and don't ever say that to me again. [[It's grumpy.]] that I would be a traitor because I defend the rights of Hungarian society, the everyday interests of millions of people in their rights! And then let me ask you one more question. Do you think that treason, when a political leader in Brussels, not at home, in Brussels, at his own party family, at the group meeting demands that EU aid programmes be withdrawn, EU assistance is denied to the lying and cheating Hungarian government? No. That wasn't us. You didn't hear that from me. Do you know who it was? Commissioner Deutsch heard it in person: Viktor Orbán in 2006. I understand, of course, that Mr.Máté Kocsis doesn't remember this, he was kicking the flag of the European Union in MIÉP boots, but then he migrated to Fidesz. What I don't understand is that he's changed so much, or you've been trained back to the Miép, better, anti-European level of Máté Kocsis at that time. Dear Colleagues, I told you I wanted to talk a little bit about our own creed. [[Németh Szilárd István: Is there such a thing?]] It happens, and I don't just cook stew like you, I still have faith. I think it's good that you know that. I'm part of this nation as much as you are, Secretary of State. I'm part of this nation as much as you, Congressmen. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's why you can tell me.]] Or just like a good-looking congressman with whom I largely disagree about the world's affairs. But I'm part of this nation. And, you know, I'm a proud Hungarian. I used to go to soccer games, I'm proud of the Hungarian flag, and I sing the same Anthem, because I believe that we share it, because we got it from our grandmothers, and obviously we all want to pass it on to our children and grandchildren in their own family. You can't take away the feeling that we're all part of this nation. Therefore, I ask you very much, I demand of you, do not divide Hungarian society into two parts, do not tease the neighbours and family members. Because anyone who supports Orbán can only be national? Anyone who doesn't support Orbán is a traitor! We have come this far, dear colleagues, and this is the work of your cynical, everyday politics. That is why I am forced to say that today the patriot who understands that the future of the Hungarian nation can only be found in a united and strong European Union. Anyone who wants to tear the European Union apart, who believes Putin or considers Erdoğan as his role model, so he wants to build the future along such authoritarian systems, it is not in the interests of the Hungarian nation. He's doing it for something else. And why you're doing it is a big question. But how unpleasant it is for you to see this particular Article 7 procedure and Sargentini's report show how violently they reacted. You are now spending 6 billion forints trying to explain the unexplainable to Hungarian society and to believe that some pro-immigration majority has adopted a resolution. Bertalan Tóth, party leader and leader, has already told you, but I repeat, let us then take the only important issue into consideration in the resolution proposal that you have placed on the table. Members of Parliament will have the opportunity to make their views clear on a few issues. Now, take this as part of my creed, and remember this. I have the opportunity to make a statement on illegal immigration. No, I do not support illegal immigration, because it cannot be in the interests of the Hungarian country that thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of illegal immigrants move in with us. Another question is that there is no such thing at the moment, but if you are interested in my position, note now: I do not support illegal immigration. 2. I can make a statement about the protection of borders. Yes, I declare that the European Union's borders and the Hungarian borders must be protected. I also declare that I object to another border between Austria and Hungary because of your policy, because it will end up pushing us outside Schengen. We will end up finding ourselves in a two-speed Europe, where there will be no more free travel opportunities. But the protection of borders must be ensured. And against my colleague Deutsch, I will support every proposal in Brussels to increase the budget of Frontex, which serves to strengthen common border protection, without wanting to hand over the rights of Hungarian border surveillance to anyone else. Dear Colleagues, They ask me if I want to preserve Christian culture, whether I support it. Of course! I was a fan of Hungarian literature and Hungarian history. Hungarian literature is one of the most important issues for me. Ask my children, ask my family. Well, how do you expect me to take away the right to quote József Attila, Ady or any of our great Hungarian literary creators, to poet, to like? ! This is part of Hungarian culture. I don't want to replace him with anything else, I don't want to dilute him, no! That's what I'm gonna teach my children, that's what I'm gonna teach my grandchildren when they sit on my feet. Because I believe in it as a Hungarian. Don't take away the right to think like this, when I simply criticize you, that you are ruining Hungary! You have put Hungary in the hands of a vassal. You are building a mafia state, an oligarch state, which is not compatible with European values. My belief is that Hungarian interests and European values are compatible. And then the third question: the European outlook. There is not much time left for my 15 minutes, so let me not start a discussion that contradicts the vision that Mr.Orbán expressed in Tusványoson. [[14.10]] I have the bad news for you, as little, small members of the vassal system: Viktor Orbán will not become the head of Europe. I know, for a man of your stature, a man of that mood, we've seen it in history, thinking back a long time or thinking back for the last century, we always have to fight. If you're busy at home, you're gonna have to cross the line. You always have to beat someone, you always have to gut someone, you won't know. Do you know who stood up for Viktor Orbán and spoke at the European Parliament meeting? I mention only 3-4 names: Eleftherios Synadinos, MEP of the Greek party Golden Dawn, who is committed to being neo-Nazi, racist, homophobic and violent, has previously been prosecuted for participation in a criminal organisation against party leaders, and one of their volunteers is associated with the murder of a Greek performer; Jussi Halla-aho, a representative of the Finnish party, who committedly sentenced him to a fine for his anti-European and racist incitements by the Finnish Supreme Court. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, I've given everyone a minute from the previous president, so let me finish, I can take 40 seconds. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The lead speakers have been given, you are not a lead speaker!]] Auke Zijlstra, a representative of the Dutch right-wing Freedom Party, who, I'm just telling you, launched a campaign and campaign in the Netherlands against workers from Eastern Europe, including Hungary, a few years ago. They were the ones who spoke for Viktor Orbán, and everyone else, the leaders of the People's Party and the European representatives of the Christian democracy, listened to and left the room. They're your brothers today. Viktor Orbán and Fidesz became leaders of the extreme right-hand side against Europe. Congratulations to you, but we're taking the country in a different direction. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-50	Mr. Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that it is beyond discussion that the report to which our Parliament now wishes to attach a resolution is nothing more than the petty, but extremely aggressive revenge of pro-immigration politicians against Hungary and the Hungarian people; for which this country proved that, years ago, if there is a political will, that if people join together, they will ask the opinion of the people and dare to base it on a government, dare to base it on a parliamentary majority, a very determined parliamentary majority, which, by the way, has already obtained confidence from those people whose opinions are constantly being asked for, well, immigration at the borders not only at the border of the country, but also at the external border of Europe, at the more than 400 kilometres of the Schengen border for which Hungary is responsible in the south, because there is yet a Romanian section, but we are not talking about it, so once again, migration can be stopped. The process we have experienced can be reversed. It is clear that those who take the opposite position, and what we see today, in all the institutions of the European Parliament, in all the institutions of the European Union, in the European Parliament and in the Commission, and in the Council, are the majority who take the stand against this, who believe that immigration is a good thing, that we must solve our population problems, the shortage of labour with immigrants, support them, invite them in, and therefore make every effort to win their position to channel money from the European Union. It's clear to everyone, and they're gonna do everything they can. If they have to, they'll say that one day, they'll say that. If you look at the German Chancellor, the biggest representative of Willkommenskultur, in the past few months, who has done the curfew in relation to border protection, because let's be honest, more people have talked about border protection here, border protection is the key, then you can see what he said. He said that illegal migration must be stopped at borders, he said that borders should be strengthened. Yesterday we hear that we don't have to do anything, and even in border management, we have to get to the point where those we've called in are now not just threatening our safety, but taking our jobs away. In Germany they think that if there is a German worker, there is an illegal migrant who has arrived, because the Social Democratic Party has already talked about illegals, then, indeed, if they apply for a job, who should be preferred: well, the illegal migrant. So we can't get that far. This is why the Sargentini report was prepared, because Hungary has dared to take action against it. The Hungarian people made it clear who they wanted to live with, the Hungarian people made it clear, in national consultations, in referendums, last time at the election on 8 pap-rilis. I do not understand how the opposition representatives stand, and on what basis and with what support they say that they would indeed like to vote in favour of the Sargentini report, and what we have submitted to the Hungarian Parliament, and that the proposal for a resolution will not be voted in favour. On what grounds? Well, they're putting up old records all the time. Dear Comrades, Dear Jobbiks! Dear Enemy! Did you like being offended by people? Are you mad at people because you didn't get the authority? Yes, you can. That's exactly what's happening. They say that then people, Hungarian people, must be punished. Of course, this is not news, because, by the way, when we were canceled in the Tavares report on the reduction of the rent, or when we tried to protect it, in 2013 in Parliament, who did they support? Well, obviously next to the service providers who were all foreign owned, and also foreign state-owned service providers, and dirtyly pawned the Hungarian people. It's the same today. We are in the same place, which is why the opposition sells from Gyurcsány to Jobbik in its entire spectrum with Sargentini. But let's get back to border security. Several people have mentioned the situation in 2015, and many have mentioned that there are no illegal immigrants now, why the fence then, why even talk about it. In 2015, we found that in the six months that we waited for our warning and the warning of their own services, their own secret services, those who rolled Willkommenskultur at the time, take into account it, almost 400 thousand, 391 thousand illegal immigrants crossed Hungary. In the situation until there was a technical and legal border lock, because there was no, there was no, we expected the European Union to come to a solution, in that situation a total of 170 thousand people could be identified. A large part of them left the country immediately, and a large part of them were accommodated in refugee camps that were still in operation at the time. Speak freely to Kiskunhalasians, Bicskians, they did what they wanted in this country, and there were almost 230 thousand migrants who could not be stopped with the power, the preparedness that Hungary had in 2015. They walked over us, they came on the highways, they were chased at night by the police, they remember this situation, they made the festival at the Eastern Station, they had to be transported to the western border somehow, because they were asked to come there. We were very lucky that even then the Austrians were not entirely thinking in winged gates and did not close the border. If the Austrians are closing the border, they're all stuck here. That's the thing. Now, this has been resolved, because Parliament and the government have made the decisions that we have made here, in spite of the continuous sawing of the opposition choir and the continuing branching of the Brussels choir, but we have made them. And there was a result. Well, let's just think of it as one of those... and, yes, I agree with what one of the good guys here said, that the first one, this fast-moving wire barrier called the weed, couldn't stop them, this little one-and-a-half-foot tall, maybe not even that big, with a simple blade... [[Varga-Damm Andrea interrupts.]] Of course we admit it, dear Congresswoman, that was the reality. You could come through that. Now, at the current technical lockdown, whoever comes through will be caught by the police and returned to the transit zone. [[14.20]] It's not like that anymore. The situation is quite different, and therefore the pressure at the Hungarian border is quite different. Then, when it was built, the border lock was built in its entirety and it wasn't even on its peak, it wasn't on its technical tops, I'm talking about September and November 2015, because one of them was built on the Serbian-Hungarian border and the other was built on the Croatian-Hungarian border for this period, by then we found that one day there were 11,000 more people crossing the border, crossing the border, and the next day the number of those who tried to do so didn't reach a hundred because they couldn't beat the technical barrier. This was then linked to all the other legal and asylum measures that we have taken, which, by the way, even if we look at the intervention of Avramopoulos in the United Nations, whether we look at the UN documents or whether we look at what is going on in Strasbourg or what is going on in this Sargentini report that is being drilled. What are they drilling in this story for? Right away, the transit zone in its entirety. The transit zone is said to be abolished and eliminated. They're putting all kinds of fictional scandals in place of the transit zone. But if there is no transit zone, then again in Hungary you can come over like a knife to the question. For example, the creation of the transit zone could eliminate refugee camps in their entirety. Or here are the asylum procedures. They want to take these away from us. They're the ones who want to tell me, that's the proposal. to give the European Migration Agency the right to decide on the Schengen border, who can receive refugee or protection status. This is their proposal, and that would mean that the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian court, will take the whole thing out of their hands. This is what they are talking about when they say that illegal migration routes, not only routes, but also illegal migrants, must be legalised. That's what they say. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This means that what has been illegal so far can be made legal by a decision taken by a European agency, so illegal migrants or migrants can be pulled in here. So they can be completely unleashed again, do the population exchange they've decided to do. The European secret services, NATO, are constantly monitoring this area. By the way, in the reports that Mr President probably reads every day, 60 million people are talking about ready to arrive in Europe from Africa or Asia. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] Sixty million people are the reserves that we have to deal with in any way. The other measure is to put Frontex in the position. Frontex, if you will, is an agency. So no one's ever seen a live border guard before. No one in Frontex has carried out a border surveillance mission. There, first of all, we need to create a unit capable of doing this. But that's not necessary, because they don't want border protection, they don't want to stop migration, they want to bring them in, they're talking about border management. They talk about the management of border protection, they talk about the management of migration, about travel so that migrants can be admitted freely to Europe without any border protection. This is what they want us to take away, these two powers, which, by the way, are national under the contract. The unthinkable is that the country, thus Hungary, has given up its right to border surveillance, which alone was able to prove that the most popular route on land is simply what is called the Western Balkans migration route, can be eliminated. The test of this is being conducted today, so they are trying to see if there is an opportunity for them to come over, but I think that the huge reduction that you are talking about is due to the prevention of what Hungary has done with border protection, and I would like to emphasise once again with the technical and legal border closure. And there's also such a spiritual matter. How can we imagine our borders being protected by mercenaries? Perhaps the Egri stars were read by everyone, in 6th it is mandatory reading. I guess we've all managed that. [[Noise, interrogations from the opposition benches.]] In it is a famous sentence that the power of the castle, the power of the wall, is not in the stones, but in the souls of the defenders. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This is how Hungarian border protection could be entrusted to mercenaries. Hungarian border protection can only be entrusted to Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian police who love their country. By the way, those who have sworn to the Hungarian Constitution in Hungary and in this spirit protect the security of the country, the sovereignty of the country and the dream of all Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-52	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, Mr László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, Congressman Ujhelyi, you have the right to everything, but you are still a traitor. [[Uproar, noise, interrogations from the opposition benches.]] The only reason I'm taking the liberty of saying this is because on Facebook, on the streets, on the squares, on the tram, people are talking about you exactly like that. It's probably because of the hatred you have, because you weren't admitted to the Fidesz, and that's where you first applied. Contrary to what you said, Máté Kocsis was already the Fidesz Vice Mayor of Józsefváros in 2006 and had worked in Fidesz for a long time. The Sargentini report is based on the opinions of well-known Soros-NGOs and Soros-Mediums, and not least its people organised the majority of the European Parliament's pro-immigration [[Continued noise, interrogations from the opposition benches, including Zsolt Gréczy: Try it by heart, in case it goes. Gergely Harvesto: At least to lie don't lie about paper!]] behind the lying pamphlet full of slips and closed questions. I understand your anger, Congressmen, because I'd be nervous too if my boss got scolded. [[Intercoms from the opposition, including Gergely Arató: We'll talk about your boss, don't be afraid.]] Just as so far, we will not allow Soros to be blackmailed, the Hungarian Parliament will give a strong response to the pro-immigration representatives of the European Parliament. Our political community, as it has always done, represents Hungarian interests in Brussels and the opposition represents the interests of Brussels in Hungary. It's simple, it's common, but it's sad. At least the Hungarian voters are aware of this and expect no more of the opposition of our country. The Sargentini report is a pro-immigration indictment against Hungary, which is clearly backed by the Soros-lobby. Classified lies are a comprehensive, yet low-claimed, conceptual case, which is offensive to all Hungarians. The author of the Soros report, Judith Sargentini, is a man of Soros, which he does not deny. There was no official delegation to Hungary during the course of the report. [[Uproar, outbursts from the opposition.]] The author of the report spent one day in our country and only listened to the opinion of the Soros-NGOs. He didn't want an hour to get to know the Hungarian government's opinion, but it would have been difficult in that time and without real determination to get to know reality. The statements of the report were clearly refuted by the experts of the Hungarian Government in a 108-page document. 37 of the 69 findings of the report are false or false; 19 ongoing procedures with ongoing dialogue between the government and the EU institutions; 13 closed cases. The fact that the report re-reads these issues into the heads of the Hungarian people is a discrediting and disregarding of the European institutional framework. Yes, my fellow Members, on the heads of the Hungarian people, as it is clear from the title of the Treaty on European Union, in accordance with Article 7 (1) of the Treaty on European Union, it clearly condemns Hungary, not the Hungarian Government, by creating a clear risk of serious violations of the Union's core values by Hungary. It was the task of the leaders of the procedure to condemn Hungary against immigration in any event, to deter all countries who oppose the exchange of Europe's population. [[14.30]] But if anyone had any doubt that the document in question was actually part of a pre-played window, it would be confirmed by the two-thirds majority of the European Parliament, which has been cheated and enforced, just so that they could once experience what it is like. [[Gergely Arató: We have already experienced two thirds of those obtained by cheating many times!]] that the votes of the Members who abstained have simply not been taken into account in relation to the Treaty and the established practice. This is also a classic category, only the wisdom derived from Hungarian humor knows this more as the hat, not as the case of the hat. All this has been done by the Brussels administration and political elite preaching about the rule of law, while applause mocking the rule of law if something is not agreed and democratically cannot overcome it. This report is blackmail. They're blackmailing us with the adoption of this report to take away the right to border surveillance. The next battle ahead is about who will protect Hungary's borders. Three decades after the change of regime, we are once again faced with the need to fight for who decides who we let into the territory of our country. Brussels also wants to force its own will on this issue, they want to take the gate key away from us quite simply, they want to send mercenaries from Brussels, who will let the masses of migrants in. The new plan is simple: if Hungary cannot be forced to allow immigrants, it must be deprived of the right to border protection. This is not only a violation of the independence of our country, but also a direct implementation of György Soros's previous plan: the system of compulsory resettlement quotas, on which the overwhelming majority of Hungarians have already expressed their views and clearly rejected it. It is a shame that the Hungarian opposition also assisted the Sargentini report, and opposition politicians still cannot accept the decision of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really?]] Brussels and pro-immigration politicians were supported in Strasbourg [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Tell me.]] And they're represented here at home. Once again, they are conspiring against Hungary, who want to flood Europe with a foreign population and turn our country into an immigrant country. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's a health hazard. I'd like another half salary.]] The opposition is desperate because it has lost parliamentary elections three times in a row. The opposition is unable to place hatred for its own domestic political opponents behind the fate of its country, and Soros finds excellent allies in them. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You can't read it!]] The opposition has its own people. Mr Péter Niedermüller, Member of the European Parliament of the Gyurcsány Party, actively participated in the preparation of the report and supported it with amendments. [[Interview from DK: We are proud of it! Gergely Harvesto intervened.]] So are the socialists. István Ujhelyi boasted that he had presented a whole package of proposals to help Hungary to discredit. According to Tibor Szanyi, the report is soft, and we could have condemned our country much harder than Sargentini did. The representative of the Dialogue, Benedek Jávor, argued for the adoption of the report all along, as we could expect from him in these proceedings, there was nothing surprising about this. Liberals also encouraged their party families to adopt the report. The Hungarian left always does this: he attacks his own country in Brussels. The representatives of Jobbik and LMP did not stand by Hungary either: they did not reject the report, they even acknowledged a significant part of the anti-immigration charges, but they did not dare turn against Soros's network, they practically squinted and lay low while condemning the country, even though if they were better than their left-wing counterparts, they would have voted against the report. [[There's a grumble in opposition lines.]] As has been so many times in recent years, it has become clear that Brussels wants to open the borders, not close the borders. They want to take border protection away from Member States in order to allow more immigrants in. Brussels continues to push immigration policy fully: they want to take away the right to border protection from the Member States; they want to take away the right to conduct asylum procedures from the Member States; they want to legalise economic immigration towards Europe; they want to establish organised migration routes; they want to eliminate illegal border crossings and criminalisation of illegal migration organisation; they again urge the compulsory automatic distribution of migrants; they want to facilitate the employment and family reunification of economic migrants [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] ; they also want to give more money and more influence to Soros organisations that sponsor immigration. This is what the European Commission's latest proposal is about, and this is what the Commissioner for Migration, Brussels, said in the UN, is about the UN Global Migration Package, supported by Brussels, and the pro-immigration proposals before the European Parliament, as well as statements by the members of the Soros network. This report and the whole procedure prove that the current leadership of Brussels is still pro-immigration and still refuses to accept another position in the assessment of immigration. The pro-immigration elite in Brussels, completely separated from European people and reality, makes decisions over the heads of people to install Europe with migrants, thereby endangering the security, peace, security and culture of European people. However, more and more electoral results and polls show that the people of Europe are fed up with this. The European Parliament which adopted the report should simply be seen as a running-out collection, because new elections will be held next May. [[Zsolt Gréczy: How will you be ashamed of this in a few years!]] Today's EP clearly has a pro-immigration majority, which considers it its historic mission to change the composition of Europe and to change its population. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Márta Demeter: Only five minutes left!]] These politicians hate people who stand up to this plan and try to plan resistance. Those who still want a majority of the pro-immigration EP after May are attacking Hungary and its close allies, Poland and the Czech Republic, who have become a symbol of resistance to illegal migration, and are trying to undermine the modern European vision of the V4 as well as its historic alliance. From here, we thank them for holding on and not bowing under the pressure of the Soros Lobby. The debate between Hungary and the European Parliament is really about immigration. Hungary will fight to develop next year a new Parliament and a new Commission that is committed to halting immigration and protecting borders. We are fighting to get the People's Party back on the path of Christian Democrats, which means preserving European identity and sticking to Christian Democratic traditions. That's what we're fighting for as long as we can. Hungarian voters will also play a major role in this. We ask the Hungarian people to confirm their decision in May 2019, because Hungary has already demonstrated that immigration can be stopped and borders protected. Let us show that the pro-immigration position is not indisputable, that pro-immigration policy cannot continue against the will of the people. However, it is now up to us, Members of Parliament, to confirm the Hungarians' decision not to turn Hungary into an immigrant country by adopting this proposal for a resolution. Here is an excellent opportunity for my opposition fellow Members to vote with the Hungarian people and reject immigration, quotas, forced resettlement, who knows how many times and in what way the Soros plan has repacked its objectives. This is an opportunity to stand with Hungary after the adoption or mere release of the report by the European Parliament [[Lajos Korózs:...didn't they get to you?]] At least when it comes to national issues. I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to the adoption of the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Ujhelyi: Of course!]]
u2018-10-03-54	Dear Parliament, During the speech, I did not wish to interrupt the speaker, but I have to speak now because of our sworn oath and house rules. We have one country. The same Hungarian people have sent MEPs here to the party and opposition, so I respectfully ask them to proceed with the ratings carefully. Yes, there is an effect of a sentence spoken on a playground, on a tram or at an evening meeting, and it has a different effect if it is said in the Hungarian legislative room of the National Assembly. Therefore, I would like to ask with all due respect for each other's constituents to use adjectives carefully. We'll get back to work from here. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2018-10-03-55	Mr President, Dear House, The fact is, Mr Szilárd Németh began by saying that it was in a debate that the Sargentini report, by the forces supporting immigration, Soros, by conspiracy... was the point. I'm sorry, if I don't quote you exactly, and you've already read the same text 37 times today, I could learn it slowly. [[György Balla: You are not enough!]] The point is, however, that they continue to claim that this report is about the immigration issue. [[14.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this statement does not stand above debate, but it is not true. This report is the Sargentini report, in which you presented your latest political manifesto to Parliament on the need for all Member States to comply with EU treaties, including Hungary. This is about ensuring that the rights guaranteed by the Treaty of the European Union must be guaranteed to all European citizens, including to Hungarian citizens. This report is about the need to enforce the rights of Hungarian citizens in the European Union and the European Union protects them. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what this is about!]] It is a shame and a pity that these rights must be protected against the Hungarian Government and the parliamentary majority in favour of the Hungarian Government, but this is the case, my fellow Members. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] You have created this situation, not Mrs Sargentini, not the European Parliament, not us. Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union clearly sets out the basic values on which the European Union is based, the principles of democracy, the rule of law, respect for the rights of minorities, a society based on equality between men and women, the application of social rights. The Sargentini report expresses the European Parliament's concerns about whether these core values are respected in Hungary today. Ladies and gentlemen, Is the freedom of scientific life valid in Hungary? [[Interviews from Fidesz: Yes!]] You're saying it is? When the Hungarian Academy of Sciences bans lectures openly on the day of Hungarian science for political reasons at your pressure? When you want to keep the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on a financial leash? When you want to drive away one of the best universities in Hungary? Is freedom of opinion valid when magazines are closed again after 30 years, are editorials replaced because of articles that do not please the government? Is the freedom of justice valid in Hungary when they want to put a special court in the neck of the Hungarian judiciary under the title of an administrative court, and they want to appoint judges of their own right? And you can say, Mr Secretary of State or members of the Government, that the debate on the retirement of judges has ended with the European Union, because you have shown that you are violating EU law. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Deal!]] But that doesn't mean those judges are retired, they're not back. [[Dr. Pál Völner: They would have retired anyway.]] And indeed it has begun, the occupation of justice has continued. Privacy is valid in Hungary when, according to the new law on criminal proceedings adopted by you, it is essentially possible to observe freely in Hungary today anyone who is thought to be connected to someone [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's not true!]] Who saw someone who might have been suspected of committing a crime? But there's no probable cause. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's not like that!]] There's no connection to the crime, but it can still be observed. And is privacy protected in Hungary when certain organisations are allowed to observe without judicial permission, such as your favorite secret service, TEK? Ladies and gentlemen, Will social rights apply in Hungary at a time when it is currently being ordered that homeless people should not be integrated and helped, should not be supported, but persecuted by means of the right to infringe? Do you think the rights of the Hungarian people apply? The European Parliament does not see it that way. And you are right if you do not see it that way, because it is also the job of the European Parliament where you and I are sitting, as elected Members, who have been sent by their own voters to watch over the fundamental values of the European Union and to watch over the rights of all European citizens. And you question that this report condemns the Hungarian government or at least the majority of the government. But who limits the freedom to establish a church in Hungary? Mrs. Little József, from Cunegund Street? Who does not ensure equality between men and women? Sociology students at the University of Miskolc? Who are the reasons why the Constitutional Court cannot make meaningful decisions in Hungary today? The farmers of one of the settlements, Bakonybél, did they decide that? No, ladies and gentlemen, you, your government, your parliamentary majority, have decided to take away and restrict the rights of the Hungarian people. Be ladies and men, take responsibility for what you've done. Take responsibility for this report criticizing your decisions. This report criticises what you have done to this country! If they did, at least don't run and hide behind the back of the country or hide behind the backs of Hungarian citizens, because they are not participants in these decisions, but sufferers and victims. Ladies and gentlemen, They criticize this report because it is incomplete because it is not sufficiently thorough, and there is some truth in it. Because the European Union is not a strong enough organisation today. Today, the European Union does not have a sufficient system of organisation to ensure that human rights are properly examined within the European Union. And that's not right. We want a European Union with stronger guarantees of the protection of citizens, of each European citizen. But that is why the report is very cautious and conservatively based solely on the findings and investigations of high authority international organisations. The United Nations, the European Council and the judgments of the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights are primarily based on investigations. It may be, ladies and gentlemen, that for you, everyone is a Soros agent and a pro-immigration agent, and I do not know what he is who is arguing with you about anything, but these organisations are considered, by the way, to be a prestigious, serious organization throughout the educated world. You may argue with them, you do not have to agree with them, because there is democracy, but they take their reports seriously. The European Parliament says that, in view of their reports, there are serious doubts in these 12 points, as this report puts it. The Committee on Human Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has not sent a delegation to Hungary to the European Parliament. That's true. And do you know why, fellow Members? Because the representatives of your party family, the representatives of the People's Party, at the initiative of Fidesz, prevented you from being such a committee. It was initiated by Mrs Sargentini, supported by left-wing fact-finding groups, and prevented this fact-finding committee by right-wing fact-finding fact-finding fact-finding groups. But there was a fact-finding committee here because the Committee on Budgetary Control sent a delegation here, and Member Tamás Deutsch was also a member of it. If you look at the addition that this committee has submitted to the report, you will see that the toughest statements that hurt you the most about corruption have been made by this committee, precisely because it has been able to be thoroughly informed. Ladies and gentlemen, By the way, I suspect that this point hurts you the most from the 12 points, as it would be difficult to deny all-inclusive corruption, where the Prime Minister proudly boasts that he has spent 30 years on oligarch money and announced that he wants to do so for another 30 years. But I do not want my fellow Members to think that I do not want to talk about your newest commas, your political marvellous weapon, the border guard, although there is nothing in the Sargentini report about this. In any case, neither the words "fence" nor "transit zone" are included in the report, let alone in the reasons for the report. What about the border patrol? Open the Commission's proposal, for example, Article 38 of this makes it clear that the teams deployed by the European Border and Coast Guard are under the control of local national authorities and border guards. And everywhere else, if you follow the proposal, it is stated that the units sent by the European Border Guard are operating under the authority and control of the Member State in question. I would add, you say here, Szilárd Németh, what these Europeans know about the border guard. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that a significant proportion of the people available to the European border guard are offered by the Member States. Here is the great opportunity for the Hungarian government, if it is important to protect the European borders, because you are talking about not only preserving the Hungarian borders, but also adding the borders of Europe, in which you are right to offer border guards to the European Border Guard Agency in its possession and encourage Hungarian border guards to apply to the professional staff of the European Border Patrol, who are exactly as mercenaries as the Hungarian border guards, they are border guards, they are also professional police officers, law enforcement workers, just as they are EU employees. [[14.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is particularly insinuating to many Hungarians working in the European institutions that they think that they are not the same patriots as those who are employed by the Hungarian government. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me make a brief remark that they are also mistaken when they think that the European Migration Agency will take away the powers of the Member States. The situation is also quite clear here: it is in EU legislation, in current legislation, and in all drafts that the assessment of migration requests, if you like, will be a fidest decision on who can come here, the Member State has and will remain the responsibility of that Member State after any change. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I can only smile at the mention of two thirds and the mention of two thirds of those who have not been properly acquired, because on one side this is the European Parliament's voting mechanism since the '70s, and each decision is thus taken in the European Parliament. I think that if you question this because it is in your interest right now, you will question all the decisions of the European Parliament over the past decades, including those with which you have contributed to Hungary's membership in the EU, but I think that this is just a gesture of weak excuses, not falling asleep in defeat. They cannot live with the fact that the vast majority of directly elected MEPs have bad opinions about your activities, including Christian Democrats, your own party family. But I suggest that you stop sulking and think about it, and at least negotiate with your own party family in a way that you are negotiating with the Hungarian opposition, but try to find a solution. Finally, Minister Gergely Gulyás said in his exposé that the Hungarian government is open to dialogue, open to cooperation with EU organisations. Well, that's wonderful. Well, here's the great time. The procedure which the European Parliament is now proposing to launch under Article 7 (1) of the EU Treaty is precisely to pursue a structured dialogue between the European institutions and the Member State concerned on the rule of law, the rule of law, and on the European Union's core values. If you are truly open to this dialogue, then here is a great opportunity, you will support our proposal, which proposes to adopt the text of the Sargentini report instead of this proposal for a decision and start this meaningful dialogue. Because it is in Hungary's fundamental interest that a Hungarian citizen should not have less rights than a German, French or even Czech citizen. It is in Hungary's fundamental interest that the European Union should not only be a member, but in fact a member; that it should not only expect money from the European Union, but that it should accept the European community, which is part of our culture as well as the tradition of Jewish-Christian culture. It is in the interests of Hungarian citizens to make Hungary a true member of the European Union and to have the same European life as their better-lucky fellows living under the rule of a truly European government in another European country. I therefore ask you to be open to dialogue with the European institutions, to be open to meaningful dialogue in Parliament on the rights of Hungarian citizens, on the EU's core values, on the rule of law, on democracy, on equality between men and women, on social justice, because it is in the interests of the country, it is in the interests of Hungarian citizens, and we have sworn to serve it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-03-56	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We really need to pay attention to the rating that we have in this House; I hope that those who came out in a clapping storm may take into account when collective corruption, criminalisation of pro-government factions [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] then perhaps this kind of thinking will extend. [[István Ujhelyi: We quoted from the Sargentini report!]] It doesn't matter where and what we say. The other point is that Mr Ujhelyi, Member, mentioned the words of János Áder, which we can agree with to date, by the way. He lost the last sentence when he spoke about sovereignty. What is going on, even if it is within the EU, is a matter of sovereignty: on the issue of migration, this is the home affairs of the Member States, who can come here, who can settle down, who we are obliged to accept. You can vote in favour of quota decisions, and you can oblige Hungary to bring in different imported elements without our consent. [[István Ujhelyi intervenes.]] , but this was not accepted by the Hungarian voters, and it was not accepted on 8 April, because migration was one of the main topics in the election campaign. As it turned out on the basis of the distribution of certificates, you were badly involved in this because the deep contempt and contempt of the Hungarian electorate is when you do not acknowledge that this debate is about this. I am being held here where you are, by the way, and have been given the results that you are generously forgetting, and I have just heard Mr Ujhelyi, when he said to a fellow Member, who is this? So, basically with that contempt, they're never gonna get any further. You may speak successfully, you will receive the fourth place on the list, because you were an excellent rétor; I will be curious what this will be enough for in the spring round, when you are tested on the same topic, in front of the same Hungarian electorate, who, as proved, either in the referendum, in the national consultation or in the recent national elections, do not ask for immigration, we can also envelop this in the story. For all the other things listed by my fellow Member, Mr Arató, are closed cases. The court issues that were discussed, closed, both in the Commission or even in the debate with the EU court, were also covered, it was clear that they had no arguments, they wanted to cover the point, that there is a government in Europe that has consistently acted against migration all the time, thanks to God, now the others have the guts to make their voices heard, let us think of the Visegrád Four, or, if we look at Romania or Croatia and the attitude of others, it is clear that the Central European region has recognised that this story is not for our benefit, it is not about us, and in any way they are trying to force us into it, we will not allow it. For we must continue to act according to the will of our constituents, not to mention that the fundamental values of the Union include respect for, for example, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which requires that the votes remaining in a qualified majority be taken into account. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-58	Thank you. We will return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz representative. Here.
u2018-10-03-59	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to give you a gentle thought as to why all Hungarian Members should have rejected the Sargentini report. Saying this isn't a political attack is pretty absurd. In addition to being full of physical and other claims that are obviously not true, the most important thing is to look at the political situation in which this is taking place. I believe that this is why all Hungarian Members, opposition representatives who have not rejected them, should have seen the historical processes and not voted or taken a stand on the basis of perceived interests in the short term. Talking about illegal migration in Europe, we can see this in all the forums organised by the political elite, basically starting by saying that migration is a good thing, we need to support migration, who is against it, it is antiquity, racist, nationalist and so on. So there is such a mood, stimulated by the political elite, which is, of course, supported by the political, financial and media elite there. In such cases, media that otherwise advertise freedom of the press do not hesitate to trick videos in some cases. And speaking of small tricks like this, this is just a small thing, but it has also been said here by one of the opposition representatives that there is a survey that says that the majority of Hungarians would have accepted the Sargentini report. Well, I don't think this sentence is of sufficient weight, but I've looked at this survey, which is completely impossible in terms of results, because it contains detailed data that 90 percent of the Fidesz voters wouldn't have voted for it, and even 18 percent of the MSZP voters didn't, so we already have 50 percent. [[Depreciation in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] So I'm wondering how the minority got along. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] It's very simple, you just have to weigh the parties on this one thing they didn't do. [[15.00]] However, it is an irrelevant thing, but it is a small thing; unfortunately, we can see this little thing very often in the operation of the political elite from Strasbourg and Brussels, that they do not shy away from such kind frauds when they are trying to argue along the rule of law. It has also been said here by Jobbik that Fidesz has also failed the European People's Party. I do not want to analyse this in particular, but I must say that there is only one important reason why it did not vote together now; it is not the same position in migration; the People's Party itself is divided by the position on illegal migration and migration. You can see that, because the popularity of not only these large parties is decreasing; they lose their voters from election to election. What political climate means and why I say that historical processes must be monitored: in the European political elite, political correct speech is important. The first element of this was when the predecessor of the MSZP representative, László Kovács, MEP Ujhelyi, said here once in Hungary, when he was European Commissioner, that in Brussels we are not talking about our country, so we are not talking about Hungary this way, but that it is the country that I know best. Well, that's why I think it's important to see these processes, and in such a climate, you need to know how to vote. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It is not worth talking about Ferenc Gyurcsány, I think, especially here, although he is obviously trying to... there is a charm when a young communist who has gained wealth from former state assets talks about the relationship between politics and the economy. [[Péter Ungár and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene.]] Allow me to respond very briefly to what was, by the way, a more serious argument, to the summary of the representative of the LMP, when he said that, by the way, Fidesz and the Government of Hungary have no idea, no concept of migration, and we are not talking about our further future. I think it would have been enough to quote the proposals put on Europe's table by the Hungarian Government and the Prime Minister. [[Intercoms in the lines of the LMP.]] We did not think that those points would be accepted on the foreheads of the major European states, of course that is not the case, and that a ten million-dollar state cannot define the policy of the great powers, I think everyone knows that, but there was a concept, and some elements of that concept are also welcome back here. At the same time, perhaps that's why it seems that illegal migration [[Demercation and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Supporting elites are increasingly under attack, this is the case, which is why it was urgent to have the Sargentini report approved, and I think that this should have been represented correctly by rejecting [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] because Hungary, not the government, had an interest in rejecting the Sargentini report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-60	Thank you very much. It's Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP.
u2018-10-03-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is worth noting that it is the Hungarian government's fault that Hungary is in this situation, as it is now. The proposal for a resolution that has been put before this House, which is not worth bringing here, but unfortunately this has already happened, only proves that they have no substantive proposal, no substantive idea, but it is all about your campaign in the European Parliament, not about Hungary's interests. It is quite clear that the rule of law and democracy can and will only be restored by the Hungarian people, while you are dealing with propaganda only and exclusively, and how you are fighting positions within the European People's Party, or what positions in the European institutions, if any, but important matters such as the budget of the European Union for the next seven years are not dealt with at all, while Hungary is constantly weakening due to faulty measures. So you are trying to make us believe that the Sargentini report itself is all about migration, because you are trying to hide that you have not been able to take any meaningful measures, and that the Hungarian government has not put down any substantive proposals, concepts or professional proposals on the table of the European Union, which is a shame. This crisis, this problem peaked in 2015, nothing since then, a substantive proposal has not been put on the table. So they do not represent the security aspects of the Hungarian people in the European Union. And by the way, there is nothing more to prove unconceptual than that I would like to remind you then, because it must have been forgotten, as I see it, that in 2013 you exactly adopted a migration strategy, from which one word was not implemented. This has six very important elements, one of which is the fight against illegal migration, which is one of the most important points. I've been trying to put the issue on the agenda for three months in the Defence and Police Committee, and I'm very sorry that the authorities aren't here, they refuse to talk about what they've done, and we can see exactly why. That's because they didn't perform any of this. So this proposal for a resolution, which you have submitted, does not make any sense, has no use for the Hungarian people, for Hungary, but serves only your campaign to the European Parliament. However, the LMP has submitted a proposal for a decision, as we have said many times that it is very important to combat illegal migration, and that the migration situation must also be dealt with, and this should be accompanied by a short, medium- and long-term, concrete vision and action plan, so I suggest that you study our proposal for a resolution, because we have summarised what needs to be done and, of course, when voting on it, you can state how important Hungary's security is to you. I would like to bring to this House what the government is not doing, and what it should be doing and what it should not be doing, and yet it is doing it all the time, because these are the two elements that specifically threaten the security of the country and the sovereignty of Hungary. What they should do and do not do: for example, the security aspects of the Hungarian people should be put on the European Union's table at last. This is not possible on a regular basis, and the Hungarian Prime Minister himself does not regularly attend meetings where substantive decisions are based and subsequently taken. It is clear that there is neither a short, medium- and long-term premonition nor an action by the government regarding the problem of migration. It is very important to prepare the domestic institutional system and carry out security checks. It is clear that there are no meaningful results in this, and there are very many holes in the system. It is important to provide domestic legal and international legal training and adequate working conditions for the staff, police and police personnel. To date, there are also problems at the Hungarian border. I think it should not be a question that Hungary's own commitments must be respected, and this applies, of course, to your government. There's a hiatus in this, too. They're not being observed. As I have just mentioned, to date, they have not been able to report on what has been done in the Defence and Police Committee from the migration strategy adopted in 2013, and from now on it would be very difficult to describe the government's so-called migration policy, because it does not exist in particular. It is clear that the protection of the European Union's external borders must be strengthened, as this is in the immediate security interest of the Hungarian people and must contribute to these EU efforts. The government doesn't take any steps in this. It is also clear that the staff of Frontex, the EU Border Protection Agency, must be increased to ten thousand. I would like to emphasise here immediately that we are talking about the executive staff, yes, we are talking about the border guards, those who stand there and carry out appropriate checks and guarantee security, and the necessary resources must also be provided to the European Union organisations. Here I wanted the Ministry of Interior to see that there is no one here from the Ministry of the Interior speaking a few sentences about what you think about the general pro-government opinion about Frontex, because it is not a new thing. So I would like to say that Hungary has cooperation with Frontex at the moment. Based on what you've said here, I'm going to ask you now, do you want to give up your cooperation? [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Because you have managed to bring together some amazing nonsense about Frontex here, while you know precisely that this is an organization whose stock could do anything here under Hungarian law and only with Hungarian command at the Hungarian border. It's very clear. [[15.10]] If this is what you are saying here, about all kinds of occupations and gate keys, then I ask you to confess: who wants to leave the Schengen area? Because they are saying this now, because it obviously means that Hungarian people will no longer be able to travel freely in the European Union from then on. But let me get this straight. So I would have listened to the Home Office's opinion on this. I guess it's no coincidence they're not here. I would also like to ask: is Frontex good for Serbia then? The borders of the Serbs are now protected by Frontex. [[Noise.]] Do they feel that they should ask the cooperating partners, ask the Serbian government, do they feel that they have lost their sovereignty? And when Szilárd Németh, as Secretary of State for Defence, talks about foreign mercenaries coming to Frontex, let me ask you, for example, are the police officers serving in Croatia, who are there in the summer, foreign mercenaries? [[A voice from the opposition benches: Yes!]] Or those Hungarians, those policemen who were sent to the Serbian-Bulgarian border, for example, 20 people; not a large number, let's just say, but 20 people went there, foreign mercenaries? Are the Hungarian police foreign mercenaries there? I therefore suggest that you do not talk nonsense, but that the statements on Frontex that the EU Border Protection Agency has made on a continuous basis are expected to be made on whether or not you want to leave the Schengen area. Because for the time being, this is going very far, but from now on, many Hungarian citizens could not travel freely, as they do now. And let us not doubt that as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán receives an offer that benefits him personally or from a party policy perspective, he will be the biggest supporter of Frontex. I think this could be exposed in months. It would be very important, therefore, to strengthen Frontex's personnel, but we see what the government is doing in this, going against everything that would serve the security of the Hungarian people. It would be important to develop a new forecasting system in cooperation with the Balkan countries, which could predict the changes in the migration process. Hungary could play an important role in the development of such a forecasting system. To this day, they have not taken the effort to negotiate any cooperation in this form. So when they talk about what the region's interest is, I ask why, for example, such an initiative does not happen. Furthermore, it can be expected that after listening here to the fight against immigration and illegal migration, all residence permits issued with settlement bonds should be withdrawn without delay. There are all legal options for this, and this could be done at any time by the competent organisations, so I say once again, all the permits must be withdrawn, and we need to find out what organised criminal groups have been granted such a long-term residence permit, and how the Hungarian government has managed not to protect Europe, but to provide it to the people of counterintelligated secret services, terrorists and organised criminal groups. And when the Secretary of State for Defence tells us that the technical and legal border lock is one thing that protects the country, yes, we also say that the fence is needed. You know what the problem is? That you're on that fence every day! They're opening the gate. With the settlement bonds, 20,000 people were allowed in, without any substantive control, and we can now say that for sure, because a lot of people were given the residence permit in just four days. So let's all think about, especially those sitting in the relevant ministries, what kind of control those four days may be enough for. These were the measures that should be taken without delay, but they do not; and let us see what they are doing instead and should not. This is all about the period after the elections to the European Parliament: how they position themselves in the European People's Party, in the European institutions and are involved up to their necks, but it does not show why it is good for Hungarian people. And it can also be seen that where Viktor Orbán has tried to play on a particular stage, whether in the case of migration, new players have appeared, and now they are using the Hungarian Prime Minister as a tool for their own internal political and EU games. How can you talk about any sovereignty from now on? How can they talk about sovereignty when, over the last eight years, the European political elite has been assisted by the continued support of multinational corporations; these are the ones that caused the economic crisis in 2008 and have had a very serious connection with the migration problem and crisis in 2015. This was the problem that the European political elite could not handle. Hungary and the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Prime Minister were very much involved in this, who continuously assisted. It is precisely the multinational corporations I mentioned that are pushing down wages in Hungary, which is why you consciously keep wages low and deliver Hungarian workers. That's right, every country has the right to decide who they want to live with and who they don't. You have already expressed an opinion on who the Orbán government thinks you want to live with. Then I'd like to give you some examples, because you want to live with criminals. But you have no right to endanger the safety of people. [[On the way out of the room, Zoltán Demeter falls on the expert box.]]
u2018-10-03-62	Please stop talking to me. I'm ordering a technical break for two minutes. (Recess: 15.17-15.22) President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Bence Tordai and Dr. Winner Vinnai)
u2018-10-03-63	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Congresswoman has two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-64	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! So I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that, if you care about the security of Hungary, you may not need to allow people like Ghaith Pharaon who were wanted for terrorist financing by Interpol and the FBI. He came to Hungary with the assistance of the Hungarian authorities, he was in business with the Prime Minister, he founded a joint venture with the family of the Prime Minister and even with the Hungarian state, and the Hungarian authorities would not have captured him, but we can say that they were specifically assisted with his presence here. Then there is honorary Consul Zaid Naffa, honorary Consul of Jordan, who failed the national security check on two occasions, and one of which was the terrorist national security control of the Counter-Terrorism Center. He failed on this, but you still hold him in position to this day, even though Hungary could expel him at any time. This is how you can be an honorary consul in Hungary. It's just that it was Zaid Naffa who basically proved that he was supporting Ghaith Pharaon, the billionaire, just so he didn't have to reveal to the Immigration Bureau that he had the money from terrorist financing. I would also mention Magomed Dasayev, who is constantly harassing journalists, and at the moment there is no way to know what kind of papers he has here in Hungary or how he is staying, but to this day he has not been captured or expelled. Mr. Potter was just here. I would also like to bring Szilárd Kiss here, who has been appointed agrarian attaché to Moscow by failing twice at national security control, by having access to state secrets, and by creating classified information himself. Thus, Hungarian state secrets have been compromised while issuing tens of thousands of visas to Russian citizens, in many cases the international authorities have indicated that there are criminals among them. And with settlement bonds, we managed to bring the money launderer of the Assad regime and, for example, a Russian criminal who was recently captured in Finland to Hungary. These cases should be suspended, discontinued. And I'm telling you that there will be consequences for the cases that have already happened, and there will be criminal consequences.
u2018-10-03-65	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that this rather intense and emotional debate is in fact grouped around four issues: the issue of Hungarian sovereignty, the question of the future of Europe, the question of the future of the European Union and the question of the axis of the Hungarian rule of law dictatorship. I would like to state my position in these, because I think that is what this is really about. I think the first and most important question is our sovereignty, because whatever we argue about, whatever we think about, I think our country is the first. Our sovereignty is a matter of principle, whoever the Prime Minister is, whatever the situation in Hungary, and it is clear to me from this position of principle that the Sargentini report must be rejected without a substantive examination. This may be an astounding position, but I do think it is right that the provisions in this regard do not belong to Judith Sargentini. It's none of his business. However, I am not saying that self-examination, for example, would not be appropriate in these matters. But for example, corruption and the rule of law must be dealt with here, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament must deal with here, in this holy place, as depositaries of the Hungarian People's Sovereignty. But on a principle basis, we must reject the fact that, if someone who is not involved in this, he would like to be involved in these issues from different political motives. On the other hand, if we look at this report, which is about Hungary, and many of its findings are lies, then it is our primary duty, Hungarians, to protest if anyone lies about our country. It doesn't matter whether it is doing this abroad, it doesn't matter that it is doing this in Hungary, but what is happening is that this MEP is in part making statements that are not true. If you're doing this about our country, our government, we still have to protest. But we must also object to this if Viktor Orbán wishes to run to the European Union in 2003 or 2006. We don't have to run to the European Union, we didn't have to run, and we don't have to run now. We don't need this on principle, we don't have to do this. I think border protection is part of our sovereignty. I'd like to shed some light on this concept in relation to border protection. You may know, fellow Members, that we did our part, and when my husband was on the border for the first time as a reserve man, my three-year-old son was having an era of why. During the bath, the elder asked his four - year - old brother where Dad was, and he replied that he was serving at the border. Then the three - year - old asked why, and my four - year - old explained to him that it was to prevent Hungary from being stolen. I believe that this issue of children will also lead us to the question of the future of Europe. In this case, I must say that I do not agree with what is being formulated in this proposal, namely that illegal immigration in Europe has become the most important problem on the continent in recent years. The result of illegal immigration is a completely different issue, which is the result of what is in fact the most important problem for our country and for the rest of Europe, which was also written by Italian Minister of Interior Salvini in a Facebook post when he was having a debate in Luxembourg. That's what I'd like to tell you. Salvini writes: I heard someone claim that we need immigration because our European population has grown old. I don't see it that way. I am paid by citizens of my country to allow our young people to have their children again as they were years ago. I do not agree that we should highlight the color flower of Africa's youth from its surroundings only in order to replace the children we ourselves did not give birth to. And that is Europe's biggest problem, not immigration. We did not give birth to children who were supposed to be born. That is why society is ageing, and that is why there are politicians who want to replace these children with immigrants. [[15.30]] This is the change of attitude that needs to take place in Europe in order to be able to recover from the crisis that has taken place across the continent and the European Union. Obviously, the government has had family policy measures that have led us in a positive direction, so that we do not have to listen to what they were again, obviously I accept them myself, I admit that there have been such steps, but that is still extremely little. The change of attitude that should take place in our country in terms of childbearing, both socially and among politicians, has still not happened. This is also a huge responsibility for the ruling parties. The fact that after eight years of two-thirds government, they start to consult on family policy issues shows that they do not know where they can move on now, how they can further encourage the children's desire for young Hungarians. Moreover, this demographic crisis is exacerbated by the issue of emigration, which, rather than not having solutions to which they have no proposals, they are trying to bludgeon the whole issue as if it did not exist, as if it were not a problem. In fact, my fellow Members, one in six Hungarian children are born outside the territory of Hungary. That's the thing. That's the thing. And with this Hungarian politics simply does not start anything. Nothing at all. The Prime Minister says they're leaving for adventure and that they're only going for a few years and just learning a language. No. They're starting a family. Or they will never return, they may lose their Hungarian identity within a generation or two, and we, our Hungarian community, will lose these children, who are not born in Hungary, but as Hungarians. Because you're gonna get rid of this problem, and instead of doing something, you're gonna stick your head in the sand. This is also related to the future of the European Union. I think that this report is also very serious because there is still very high tension in the European Union. It is those huge fault lines that have already defined the future of the European Union, and the issue of immigration, I think, will create a whole new situation within the European Union. Political forces within the Member States are being reorganised. Political relations in the European Parliament and in the various institutions of the European Union are being reorganised. This will be a new fault line, this will be a new, decisive issue in which the occupied position can determine the fate of Hungary for the next decades. At the same time, this reorganization will also give us the opportunity to open taboo issues that we have not yet had. No matter which has been treated as taboo by the European Union should be treated as taboo. We can go to the renegotiation of our Accession Treaty, because there will be a new situation, a new world order, a new approach, a new paradigm will appear in the European Union. And Hungary must prepare for this, take the lead, we must be prepared for our own interests with ready-made concepts there, not only on the issue of immigration, but on all policy issues. The Hungarian government must not fail to do so. Because there will be a whole new era of immigration in the European Union, and we must be able to use it for our own national interests, our own national goals. When you are concerned about the state of democracy, for example, Mrs Sargentini, you may be concerned that Hungary has been a member of the European Union for almost 15 years, but Hungarian citizens have not yet seen a balance of what this European Union has brought to them or what it has taken from them. Why are you not worried because Hungarian people cannot make informed decisions about the European Union? Mrs Sargentini could also be concerned because one of the worst in Hungary is trust in the institutions of the European Union. In Hungary, the rejection of the European Union is almost the highest among all Member States. Why is that? Why don't you deal with this when you talk about the conditions in Hungary? That the citizens of Hungary are the European Union and, I add, Hungarian politics does not take into account the fact that they hold a mirror before our membership of the European Union. To see what we got and what we had to give up, whether from our sovereignty or from our economy. Why don't we do this scale right now, when these huge changes are about to happen? We would be much more prepared to conduct these negotiations, and we would be much more prepared to face these changes if we could, and we European Union and Hungarian citizens would see what happened in our country as a result of accession to the European Union. I did not plan to discuss the rule of law and dictatorship in detail, but I think I should do it. It is also because this is part of the report that the opposition may see most seriously. I have to say, it's actually going down pretty hard. It cannot be taken away that Hungary has a one-party Fundamental Law. It cannot be taken away that there is a one-party electoral system in Hungary. It is not possible to take the fact that there is a purely Fidesz party soldier sitting at the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Audit Office, the National Court Office, the electoral bodies, the Media Council and the Central Bank. At the same time, I do not like it when even opposition representatives talk about dictatorship, because in a dictatorship there are public bodies of violence against innocent voters. When there was a dictatorship in Hungary, people were taken to the gulag here, ten years of citizens spent there without seeing their families. They actually suffered from the fact that there was a dictatorship in Hungary. But even in 2006, my fellow Members, there was an illegal mass of public violence on the streets of Budapest against its own people. So if we want to look at the state of democracy in Hungary, then let us put these in favour. And let's not discuss the sufferings of people who actually lived in dictatorships and suffered from not seeing their own family for a decade, or the police came for ordinary family fathers before 15 March, or let's talk about what happened in Hungary in 2006. To date, the Hungarian State is paying damages for the mass violations committed by the police. The police! It's a state rapist! So when we are talking about a deterioration in the rule of law, let us not apply double standards. It is true that the settlement policy poses a security risk to Hungary. It is true that this completely discredits the government's migration policy in many respects. It is true that what I have mentioned is that the rights that could not be undermined in a consensus democracy will be undermined. But that doesn't make it dictatorship. I believe that, as I began to speak, it is Hungary's sovereignty that we must consider as a priority on this issue; it is, however, our country that we must consider as a priority. I believe that, because of my approach to sovereignty in principle, I will support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-67	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute lap. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am very sorry that Mr Ujhelyi has left us, because he has said his speech, but he has not waited for the answers. You can talk about everything, he talked about everything, but did not answer one question: why, in the last three years, he and Tibor Szanyi, together with his fellow Member, voted in favour of all the European Parliament's pro-immigration proposals, all the proposals that wanted to open the way for legal migration, the proposal for a decision on all the quotas, when, in his speech, Mr Ujhelyi said that he did not support illegal migration. [[Tibor Szanyi: I'll tell you later.]] There are words and there are actions. The Hungarian government does the same in words and deeds, the Hungarian government says the same thing, protects Hungary. On the other hand, the socialists speak this way here, and they act differently in Brussels. We think it's a shame. Mr Harvester, I do not believe that we are asking you, as former Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány Government and the current representative of the Gyurcsány Party, for a lecture on the rule of law when you were shot among the people. [[15.40]] I don't think we're asking for a lecture on corruption when it was your boss. [[Gergely Harvester: Lies!]] Who gave electricity to his own company at a cheaper rate when he was Prime Minister. I would like to point out to Mrs Demeter, who said that there is no migration action in the Hungarian Government, she has missed the migration strategy. I'd like to tell him that I'm sorry that reality doesn't bother him at all. It is a pity that I have to list it once again, but it is very important to remind ourselves that there has been a physical border lock, a legal border lock, a constitutional amendment banning resettlement, the Stop Soros legislative package, and the Hungarian government has made various proposals in the European Union. [[Péter Ungár: What are those?]] Too bad you couldn't support any of this. We're very sorry about that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-69	Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK!
u2018-10-03-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let's get some things straightened out, 'cause there's a lot of lies going on here. You like to refer to the fact that in April 2018 there was a fantastic and just election victory here. I would like to quote the OSCE report: "The state and Fidesz had access to so much more resources before the election that it was not possible to talk about equal competition. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe claims that the resources of the government and the government parties have completely overlapped, the government's excessive campaigns and advertisements have been linked to those of the governing parties, which have undermined the equal opportunities of competing parties. So there was no free choice in April 2018. Let's get another thing straightened out. Here it has been said several times in the debate, you said that Viktor Orbán did not vote for the quota. You're lying! Orbán voted in favour of quotas, and this is said by no smaller personality than the former Prime Minister of Poland, President of the Council of Europe, who also confirmed this by letter to our MEP Csaba Molnár. I quote literally Mr Tusk's letter, saying: ". All the measures adopted in December last year must be implemented as quickly as possible, including decisions on the relocation of migrants within the Union. Orbán voted for this, Donald Tusk told us. So Viktor Orbán is a pro-quota representative. What I would also like to clarify is that you claim that Viktor Orbán never wanted to bring migrants in here. That's another lie. I quote Viktor Orbán from his first prime minister's term:, He should take in millions of immigrants in the next five years, so that he can ensure the pace of economic growth. This is what Viktor Orbán said. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Ooh! Ooh! Oh, boy.]] Viktor Orbán wanted to bring millions of people into Hungary. Finally, one last, this is the autumn of 2006. Let me quote András Nyitray Fidesz, a member of the Joint Defence and National Defence Committee, said the following: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's a good thing a cop or two didn't die there, and not a cop or two, I might add, because they threw stones all over the place. (The President indicated the end of the time by jogging the bell. ) If that's not reason enough for someone to use their weapon, there's a big problem here. Your fidesz representative was gonna have me shot with a live gun in the crowd. Now, let's record this for the record. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're sick!]] Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-03-71	Everyone, please follow the house rules. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's the truth! Ádám Mirkóczki: Then I'll get an extra 24 seconds!]] The representative of Fidesz, Mr László Böröcz, will be here in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-72	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I'd just react to a few things. On the one hand, I regret that Congressman Varju has left [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] I don't think so. Congressman Varju has mourned for Népszabadság for a long time. The truth is, I don't know if the representatives of the MSZP or DK in the 1990s, obviously even the MSZPs were sitting together at that time, did they ever mention that there was only one right-wing newspaper called Democrat, which was also the lowest number. [[Péter Ungár: Hungarian Nation!]] That's a little later. [[Interviews from DK: Weekly Reply, Pesti Hírlap!]] The problem of freedom of the press has never been mentioned. [[Gergely Arató: New Hungary!]] Now, when the largest commercial TV and the largest Internet portal are making stone-cold government criticisms, and they are an opposition medium, of course, they have a problem with freedom of the press. In connection with the speech by Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány and Mr Arató, I can only think of a sunrise interview by Sándor Fábry, where he said that when police go out on the street without an identification badge, it is called terrorists in countries with better historical development than Togo, Luxembourg and Bhutan. After that, don't teach us any lessons about the rule of law. I am also very sorry that you left, because I would have been happy to introduce myself to you, and I would have told you that, by the way, the Fidelitas, of which I am president, are bigger, more organized and more structured than the MSZP at present. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Start the election! Gergely Harvestó: There is more public money in it!]] And I would just like to draw Zsolt Gréczy's attention to the elections that a Danish observer said in relation to the Swedish elections that it was practically impossible to vote secretly in Sweden during the elections. Don't lecture us now. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't lecture you, but the OSCE taught you!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-73	Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik, in two minutes!
u2018-10-03-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only very briefly, because I did not intend to speak, because everyone told me that the criticisms from all parties were perfectly justified. At the same time, it was striking that, from the pro-government part, almost every sentence of each speech was able to draw the most invalid things from this ominous report. They talked about everything but what is true and factual criticism in the report. On the other hand, you're betraying everyone without incredible arrogance, breasts and all manner of humility. Then here I would like to connect with our fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacs, the difference between actions and words. If we are talking about treason in September 2005, after a few weeks before the Romanian EU accession in September 2005, Viktor Orbán in Tusnádfürdő says that Fidesz will not support Romania's accession to the EU until it gives the Transylvanian community autonomy, whereas all members of Fidesz will vote on 7 September 2005. [[Péter Ungár: Shame!]] without exception, honor to Sándor Lezsák, who was still in the colours of the MDF, was one of the six people who did not vote for this accession. [[A statement from Jobbik: It's a shame! Treason! Péter Ungár: Shame!]] Is the unread signature of the Lisbon Treaty a treason after you are talking about the report about the EU's desire to withdraw sovereignty? Well, please, sovereignty was for the first time abandoned by your vote in favour when the Lisbon Treaty was voted without any criticism. In 2008, when the border guard was eliminated with the joint vote of Fidesz and MSZP, could this be assessed as treason? I think in the current situation, yes. But let's keep going. Are settlement bonds treason against anti-immigration communication? I think so. To advertise in Ukraine for 80 million forints after Viktor Orbán in the public radio says that we do not want strangers even for migrant workers, yesterday's news in two years [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We managed to bring in 5,000 Ukrainian migrant workers for 450 million forints. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Therefore, let not the vest be large.]] Congratulations. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-75	Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP, two minutes!
u2018-10-03-76	Thank you for the floor. I want to get to the words and the actions. My colleague, Kósa, who left the room for some reason, communized a tale of blood, anyone who did not agree with him, communicated it. I think the victims of communism deserve a little more. But your historical crime is that Béla Biszku was able to die in bed with pillows. You had two-thirds of them, you did nothing to account for Communist sinners, you made the former Deputy Minister of State of the Kádár system. So we need to be a little more solid about communism, besides the fact that the LMP has put forward more than 17 proposals for public disclosure and Lustration, which you have rejected every single time. You, Mr Szilárd Németh, have dedicated the statue of Sándor Rideg, his work in Csepel, who was a communist, was an illegal communist, and also participated in the dictatorship of the Republic of the Council. So it would be with a little more modesty to begin with who the Communist is and how much he has done in Hungary today to account for Communist crimes. I would like to go further on the fact that Congresswoman Demeter said that there were, however, different actions in the context of migration. Congressman Nacsa, your Prime Minister, Prime Minister, voted in the Council on the Merkel-Erdoğan pact to keep the Turks from migration for money. This was what stopped the migration route in the Balkans. That is why not only the Hungarian-Serbian border, but also the Croatian-Bosnya border or the Slovenian-Croatian border, are reducing migratory pressure. This solved migration on the Balkan route, not the fence, despite the need for a fence. Perhaps Angela Merkel, who is in your party family and who is loved or hated, changes about three times a week according to the fact that Nógrádi was also a communist in public TV, we should discuss with her how migration can be solved with the correct Merkel-Erdoğan pact [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] which you, by the way, supported in the Council. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-77	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, independent, please. [[15.50]]
u2018-10-03-78	Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain my thoughts about the counter-Sargentini report in a longer comment, but I would like to put two things right here anyway. On the one hand, we have been hearing for quite many hours now that, according to the government and the pro-government representatives, there is a phantom hanging over Hungary, who wants to break down the Hungarians' faith in the European Union with all kinds of misrepresentations. I could see the vote on the papers purchased by Lőrinc Mészáros, and the question was whether he considered Sargentini's report impartial, and 58 percent of the respondents clearly said that yes, these are real threats, and this is a real problem, which Sargentini largely talks about in his report. So you can argue with us, but if you look at these statistics, there is a two-thirds, and those two-thirds are not your two-thirds, nor the two-thirds that were in the EP, but the Hungarian people's opinion on the state of Hungary's judgment and the future of Hungary's irresponsible governance. On the other hand, there has been a question of trust in the EU, and I would like to make a point. The Hungarian institutions would be pleased if they had such confidence in their direction, such as in the direction of European Union bodies. The fact is that Hungary and the Hungarian people love European values and the European Community. It is no coincidence that you, honourable pro-government representatives, have chosen a campaign of communication propaganda in which Brussels has been shot at as such, and have often gone to Brussels, and should have gone to Strasbourg, because it is not possible to sell to the Hungarian people a campaign in which the European Union and the European Community has been insulted, to which this country has wanted to belong since St. Stephen, because we are Europeans, this is the big situation. And you, with this lame propaganda law that you put on the table, you can achieve one thing, you give us the surface to tell us that Hungary has a natural place in its federal system, and it is definitely pointing towards Europe. I would also like to say here what Hungary owes to the European Union. Now that the country will fall from HUF 500 billion because Viktor Orbán's lawyer failed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] check the money properly and take this money away from us, for example, and we'll know what we've lost.
u2018-10-03-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, Mr Böröcz asked for the floor, Fidesz. Here you go. [[Interviews from the LMP: Fidelitas! Péter Ungár: We've missed you!]]
u2018-10-03-80	Yeah, I thought so. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to Péter Ungár in a few sentences that obviously the Turkish-EU agreement, which was concluded in spring 2016, was a prelude to the fact that in 2015 the Hungarian government started to build the fence. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What do the two have to do with each other?]] Until then, Angela Merkel said in 2015 that there was no need for the fence, that the fence would collapse on its own, and that this whole thing that Hungary is doing was unnecessary, and that even the word "fence" could not be used; we learned afterwards, soon after that, that the winged gate in Austria was called a fence, but that is another question. So why the Turkish Pact really came into being and who highlighted the problem that then began to guide the European Union and Angela Merkel towards the Pact was Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-81	Honourable Members, We will continue with the speeches by the speakers announced in advance. Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-82	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In the recent debate on a new report on Hungary in the European Parliament, the Sargentini report, some of the Members condemned Hungary on the basis of false arguments and hypocritical explanations for alleged violations of the rule of law. At the same time, they issued themselves a false certificate of great authority disguised as a state of law. Those who, under European values, regard the limitlessness of individual freedoms as a value, who do not understand the strength of the community to maintain, protect, educate and shape people, now feel that they are doing something important by starting Hungary's discipline. CHAPTER XXI The ultimate power of societies in the century is the sole power of money. This has been fulfilled today in liberal ideology. This world order cannot do anything with an illiberal, i.e. communal, attitude that denies the unlimited rule of money, and therefore wants to destroy it. They believe that by eliminating communities, strengthening family relationships, natural gender roles, reducing man's dignity, self-esteem, his natural ability to survive, and replacing Europe's population with peoples of other cultures, they will solve many of the problems of Europe and the world. Hungary was set on the bench for the protection of real European values. Such values should be protected by the principles of Greek government organisation, respect for Roman law, the many thousands of years of Jewish-Christian philosophy and community morality that respects its human rights. We Hungarians are building a Christian democracy that guarantees the dignity, freedom and security of man, protects equality between women and men, the traditional family model, Christian culture, language, history, and XXI. It will also give our nation a chance to survive and thrive in the century. The condemnation of Hungary is the condemnation of community existence, the refusal of families, small communities and national existence. The report is the giddy praise of people who have no identity, no responsibility for the European future, so that they can be easily influenced and easily controlled by their endless desire for consumption. This vulnerability is covered by human rights absolutism, political platitudes such as respect for European values, socially important groups, freedom of expression and similar infinite content. In Hungarian textbooks, women are primarily portrayed as mothers and wives, says the report accusers. As a result of such words and ideas, there is an ongoing banishment of European citizens. We have been confronted with intellectual underage, insecurity in values, a multitude of cliché arguments, spectacular lack of public authority in many speeches by MEPs. The report was mostly drawn up on the basis of statements and reports made by groups that, for their own selfish purposes, are not interested in the good functioning, order and culture of the country, who want to transform Hungary's culture, customs and population into their own ideas. This is why the Hungarian Parliament must raise its voice against this unworthy decision in order to protect European culture and the dignity of European people. With our recent resolution, all citizens should feel that there is a vision, there is a thought, there is a will to maintain a European way of life that preserves and retains values. The unity of nations or the direction of self-defense should not be discovered today from the memories of the terrible world wars that have passed away, but should be seen as an opportunity for equality of peoples, as the practice of the Visegrád countries today shows. The occupation of Europe through immigration is indeed a threat to European values, European culture, respect for the life of the law, and the achievements of women's equality so far. Hungary does not want to be an immigrant country, it has the right to decide who is allowed to cross its borders. This Parliamentary resolution is not only about Hungary, but also a message to European citizens that there is still hope. Since it seems that we cannot count on the support of the opposition to defend the thousand-year-old culture of the Hungarian people, we must show our position to the Hungarian and European citizens to defend real human and community values. This decision adopted by the European Parliament is rejected as a collection of half-truths, false intentions, unilateral ideological views. Such and similar malicious, lying reports can be written about almost all European countries on different subjects, with various accusations. In order to protect Europe's culture, customs and combated knowledge, I ask for the support of the proposal for a decision in order to maintain hope. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-83	Thank you very much. Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik. Here you go. [[16.00]]
u2018-10-03-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the first minute of my comment, I would like to say that I will always be at least one category more opposed to illegal immigration than you, and my father is much stronger than yours, so that I will not bring comparisons in other parameters to this House. Because at the beginning of a debate or at the beginning of a comment, like a good pasture or field, border stakes must be knocked down, the framework in which we make our contribution, or we are having the debate. Because we need to be short-circuited, and we need to draw the air from the fire that you are constantly trying to excite, washing the left with Jobbik, trying to get us on a platform, and they claim that Jobbik has the same position on illegal immigration as the left. You are either trying to push this incredibly mean communication, either explicitly, openly or slylyly. Then let us be clear once and for all, not for the first time, probably not the last, but it is very important to stress that Jobbik opposes all forms of illegal immigration, regardless of the title. We would like to exclude any title which, in essence, would lead to the permanent or temporary establishment of immigrants in Hungary. I have now almost literally told you about the individual motion that I tabled at the end of September 2016 with several fellow Members; the motion which, along with another proposal with almost similar content, was rejected and swept away at least seven times, has not been included in the series before the Judicial Committee. We did not press a button on 8 November 2016 because of the stubborn, stubborn position on settlement bonds, so we are constantly being eaten for one, and you have voted no seven times in committee, and this proposal has already been canceled there. So if we consider this to be a standard of treason or patriotism, then they are at least 7:1, but we do not even recognize this as treason, because we did not commit treason, but we wanted to exclude exactly all titles, we want to close every loophole before illegal immigration. Because you keep talking about quotas, you're actually trying to close one of the many gates, but you're talking less about the mandatory quota, the voluntary quota, the relocation, the title of deportation, and what I've told you many times. I drew your attention to the fact that not only Hungarian lawyers but also Brussels lawyers are very creative. You can come up with items that could be harmful and dangerous to the country, the security of the Hungarian people, regardless of their designation, and therefore a very clear wording is needed, which you have seven times, my fellow Members, seven times. They rejected us, so we don't want to let migrants in here in any way, not through poor migrants, not rich migrants, not through the fence, not through the Orbán-Rogan bonds. Compared to this, you have admitted at least 21,000 through bonds and family reunifications, at least 3,000 have been admitted based on Christopher Altusz's full, exploratory confession, and who knows where, in various institutions, such as Buda, we have seen an exposing video of it, hiding or hiding it on a show of news television that saw even better days. At the same time, you are constantly talking out about the heroic protection of Hungarians from all forms of illegal immigration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a decent knocker of your leaders has insulted Hungarian women in the V. district gyros, who is not known whether we have managed to find out where the procedure is going, whether the responsibility has been given to how that decent knocker has defended himself at all in the situation of committing crimes. As, by the way, your law enforcement, for example, is doing very poorly when it comes to the capture of known criminals. Today's news, it's just a parentheses note that what they should be dealing with much more than continuous anti-migration chanting: the killer of the lady of Soroksár should have been in prison at the time of the murder, just like Kata Bándy's killer. It would be better to move law enforcement and services in the direction that such subhuman beings spend the rest of their lives where they have long deserved it. So it would be much better to do this than to repeat various communication panels until bored. And by the way, Viktor Orbán recognized the king's one-eyed truth among the blind, saw the possibility in the topic of migration, because in fact, what you are talking about and in which we agree with you in this respect, we supported this on several points, and I will say this in a moment, is the most natural thing in the world. Some kind of elected representative of the nation protects the Hungarians, protects their lives, their physical safety, their security, their wealth, or, at least, does everything they can, does, is as natural as the parent raises his child, the father protects his family, takes care of his family's future, that is two times two times four. There's no such thing as praise. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It would be equally natural for political leaders and politicians to defend their country. It's just that at the moment, it's such a poor quality, respect for the exception, the western European concept, that with such simple insight, one-eyed blinds can already become a huge star on the basis of the king. And why you keep lying about us, why you say that we are pro-immigration, when we voted not only in the absence of two thirds of you to protect the Hungarian border and protect Hungarian people, but also to support Jobbik on anti-terrorist measures, because we didn't have two thirds of them, we assured the two-thirds majority, we rose above the oppositions of party politics, we did what you have been unable to do for a long time. On the other hand, with the opposite sign, we certainly could not have expected your support, despite all their sleazy, discrediting campaigns against us, in the interests of the country, and not party policy mud wrestling, and we voted in favour of these proposals. We do not expect praise for this, because it is just as natural as the family father taking care of his family, but the minimum is that they will not dissuade us then or spit on us, and they will not try to put us under the same roof as those who might actually be supported by one or all forms of immigration. So it would be good if these differences were made or expressed. If we go back to political history, we could point out the day, if I remember correctly, by June 4, 1990, when Fidesz representatives, while still proud members of the Liberal International, withdrew from a Trianon memorial, declaring it an extreme right-wing Nazi manifestation. Or, when there was a referendum here, a referendum with very serious consequences, which indeed went on, and it was past that the strongest opposition party at that time did not sufficiently mobilize its own voters, only this national decisive referendum took place not on 2 October 2016 but on 5 December 2004, my fellow Members. Just as the Romanian EU accession was allowed, betraying the Transylvanian and Partium Hungarians, as you may be afraid, that they will also put a great deal of light on the individual and collective freedoms of the Hungarians there in connection with the Serbian EU accession, just as they are not sufficiently sensitive to the serious violations of the Transcarpathian Hungarians there, to say the least, they will not do their best to protect the Hungarians living in the torn areas. So don't lecture us about patriotism and patriotism and their commitment to our country, because you don't just have butter, you have a whole dairy factory behind your ears. Respect for the exception, of course, I never like to generalize, because I've had a problem with it, too, so I learned from the events. But don't make it look like you're the only patriots in this country, and everyone else who dares criticize you and the Tsar Father is a traitor! And then let's look at the parts of this debate where they really have serious reasons for sneaking around. I would particularly like to address corruption. You say this, gently, by the infinite wealth of the Hungarian language, by abusing the possibilities of building a national capital class. It would be a very, very, very good idea, but the fact is that the story really is that I would like to significantly strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary with this noble plan. It is only the case, ladies and gentlemen, that 4-5 persons are not class even in primary school, let alone at a social level. The fact that you're pushing 4-5 people or families full of money to drown doesn't mean that this is going to create a national capital class. You're in a conceptual jam, but of course you're not; it's basically the story of pushing the czar's kinship and some of his good friends with money. [[16.10]] And you'd better keep your mouth shut, because then your political careers probably won't take a proper career if the sense of justice can speak to you. There are, however, very serious reservations in this regard. The suspicions of serious crimes arising from various billion-dollar procurement procedures or the use of many tens of billions of EU funds may have something to do with the advance of 800 billion forints of funding, especially in the campaign of this Hungarian budget, a fraction of which has been transferred to Brussels so far. I do not even say that we are gloating, that now we have to show how the Hungarian economy works without EU funds, that with or without EU money, because we cannot be Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, we cannot gloat with reason, I just want to know that if the good part of this amount does not really arrive because of the bottomless appetite of some of your people, then how will Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian people be able to look into the eyes and make up for it. And as for the operation of the scandalous prosecutor's office, due to the shortness of time, there are some thoughts. I fear that if the Chief Prosecutor continues his work in this way, especially the Attorney General, there will soon be a riot in some Budapest or metropolitan law firms, because the Attorney General is taking their bread. Because the Attorney General is the attorney general at the moment. It is a rather specific criminal nonsense that, in many cases, the prosecution shares the position of the defence well in advance by laying certain cases at the indictment stage. Like the case of so important fence building, where I made a very strong infidelity of treatment, suspicion of misdemeanor abuse. Not against building a fence, before they try to misinterpret my words, but because of the fact that it cost me unrealisticly, most of the fence was built with four-time, five-time overpriced fences; we are talking about 170 kilometers of fences, my fellow Members. What I collected there, I wrote down with facts and comparative price analyses, according to the Central Detective Attorney General's Office, it didn't even by chance establish or report a reasonable suspicion. To put it mildly, it's scandalous. You are able to profit from even the noblest and most important cases. Of course, if you don't have a shirt, you don't take it personally, I'd like to add that to that right now. They tap into migration, like an Arab magic carpet, and thus try to rise above Hungarian reality. Some people close to you also need white powder, others may settle for less, where appropriate with fruit spirit. However, you do not see the problems of Hungarian health care on this Arabic magic carpet, fellow Members. Or the problems in North-East Hungary, my fellow Members, you do not see them very well. The state of the Hungarian hospitals, which in several places can be affected by a minor exaggeration of the. the front hospital in the Don turn. It doesn't take much to exaggerate. Who will heal us in four to five years' time, when doctors who are still overpowering often go to retirement in their 70s, for good? Yeah, well, you guys do it in private clinics, that's one thing. That doesn't make us happy. We who know, want or want to use public health care, who will heal us? What's the state of our hospitals? What kind of diagnostic equipment do you have? What are the chances of survival of a Hungarian man living in North-East Hungary or in a less developed region who has worked his whole life, who has been forced into it, paid taxes and social security, and, in practice, if he doesn't have any personal connections and a little luck with some of his savings, then we will practically go back there because of you, slowly to the prehistoric era, that the strong survive, and that the weak and the less powerful immune systems unfortunately leave prematurely to the Lord. This is a real shame, fellow Members. The fact is, there is a great truth in that Mrs Sargentini is your best ally. Because with such perfect timing, they couldn't have given them such a big card as Mrs Sargentini. Because he created the possibility that the next year would be spent with it, so he could be hysterical and weep. And Mrs Sargentini has filled you with fuel for the vehicle on which you will be able to keep the engines of the migration theme in the nose and mouth until the end of May 2019. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and until October 2019. So you'd better put that away for yourself and take it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-85	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik.
u2018-10-03-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said in today's debate on the document marked by the name of the MEP Judith Sargentini. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Allow me to begin my brief speech with a personal remark. I have been dealing with European affairs for a long time, almost three decades, but I still have to assess that the presentation of the Sargentini representative is a completely new phenomenon that we cannot leave without saying a word here in the Hungarian Parliament. What's this about? Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last three decades, there have been very, very many changes in the composition and competence of the European Parliament. The issue of European integration has progressed slowly but hard, and we have seen that Member States have been forced to abandon their exclusive sovereignty in more and more areas for the benefit of the European Union. This process was characterised by a kind of euphoria, and many people are still convinced in this House that the common exercise of powers, as we say, is the most appropriate in all circumstances without examining compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. We see that the gradual increase in the power of the EU institutional system has been culminated in the Lisbon Treaty, which, I quote, gives the European Parliament co-legislator powers in a number of cases. I note that without being able to initiate a binding act, such as a draft regulation, directly. Thus, my fellow Members, we see that in many cases the European Parliament is merely bringing non-binding resolutions on the initiative of its members. Nevertheless, I must say that it is now clear that the European Parliament has become an unavoidable player in shaping EU law. Ladies and gentlemen, Many Members of the European Parliament are working today to further broaden this now very broad competence, i.e. to further expand the catalogue of EU competences, and to increase the influence and power of the European Parliament in the European Union. Somewhere that is understandable, for who would not seek a fairer right; who would not have ambition, who would object to seeing his name on the pages of the history books? The MEPs who voted in favour of the Sargentini report did so partly because they want to show that the European Parliament has the power to teach individual Member States a lesson, judge the activities of national governments and influence them with the power of its decisions. However, I would also like to state that this is only one of the reasons, in my opinion, for the fact that the majority of the members of the European Parliament first voted in favour of drawing up the Sargentini report and then held a vote on its adoption. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must see that the aim of such proposals, which have been launched as an own initiative at present, is to stigmatise those who believe in the old European values, such as the trinity of God, home and family, or the power of tradition and the existence of nation states. What are we talking about here, fellow Members, behind the scenes? There are only two worlds against each other, and there are two uncompromising positions here today in the various speeches in this House. [[16.20]] I think that there is a place for reasoning and debate in this House, too, and that Parliament is an example to the European Parliament, because there is a commitment not only in words but also in actions to the debate between political sides. There's room for debate. The discussion of the proposal for a decision before us this afternoon is also different from the debate on the proposal presented by Judith Sargentini. Ladies and gentlemen, If you recall, the first attack from the outside, or I could say that after the 2010 elections, the Socialist Party in the opposition had already taken place when the Fidesz government, the Orbán government that recently took office, had not taken almost any more serious action. It is therefore an untrue claim that Fidesz would have done something wrong, since the opposition had already begun to attack the government through the European Union institutions when there was not even a measure that could actually have been seriously criticised. After all the attacks on media regulation without any basis, and after the adoption of the right to create the Fundamental Law, before the previous European Parliament elections, we were able to meet another Green Party Member, Mr Tavares, who considered that he had enough knowledge to report on Hungary; we also read that report, and they wanted to condemn Hungary. Now, for a change, they would like to initiate the procedure under Article 7 (1) of the Treaty on European Union against Hungary, regardless of which faction they sit in the European Parliament. I must say that these Members would use an inadequate instrument against our country, since this procedure is only open to consultation and there is no withdrawal of a vote. Judith Sargentini's composition with a large artificial concern, i.e. the proposal by stitching together previously disproved untruths, is therefore nothing more than a kind of political pressure against Hungary and all the countries that refuse to accept as cash the solutions which, in Brussels, I must say, politicians who have been somewhat distant from their constituents have planned to solve the problems facing Europe. As the representative of the Hungarian Parliament elected in the seventh term, I am somewhat confused with the opposition accusation or opinion that the interests of the Hungarian people are being protected by the European Parliament, and this Sargentini report in particular aims to protect the interests of the Hungarian people. For me, this is the contempt of voters who have cast their votes on the civilian government and their representatives for the third time. They have clearly stated that they expect the protection of the country and their own interests not from the European Parliament, but from the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to briefly list the main problems with Judith Sargentini's proposal. These three problems, which I mention, are Achilles's point of this document anyway, although I know that this does not bother Judith Sargentini at all, as she has written them in writing, and I quote: the whole procedure lacks legal character. In my reading, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the fair procedure, one of the basic requirements of the rule of law, cannot be called to account on this report. On this basis, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, if all that Sargentini and his friends in principle were to count on us for themselves, then the whole report could not have been presented in the European Parliament. Firstly, the whole European Parliament procedure is without legal basis. In fact, there are no areas covered by EU law in Hungary that could be examined and the procedure under Article 7 initiated. Secondly, if the European Parliament had conducted a judicial procedure, the Hungarian Government would have had me heard. On the other hand, what happened? Both the LIBE Committee and the Plenary Session seemed to show particular favor when they gave the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó a few minutes to represent our country. Third, ladies and gentlemen, I think the saddest point in the whole procedure is the vote itself. In a rule of law, it would not be possible for the members of the open society to twist the special guarantee voting rules of the Treaty, so that they do not count the abstention as a cast vote. And those here in this House are always talking about the violation of the rule of law and democracy, those who teach us Hungarians who only count the votes remaining in a vote if it is just right for them? There may be moral concerns on either side of the vote, but I beg you, if the right gives you the opportunity to stay, then it must be taken into account whether you like it or not. That's what a rule of law means to me. Ladies and gentlemen, The vote of the European Parliament in Strasbourg in September is undoubtedly a watershed in the history of the European Union. It has shown who stands for the idea of open society and who stands for the future of national states. In the spring of 2019, it will be decided, ladies and gentlemen, whether European citizens really are members of the open society, or whether they are those who claim to be the ideals of the statesmen who have founded the European community. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to EU representative Tibor Szanyi.
u2018-10-03-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Listening to this debate today, I still think that there is a kind of misconception and misconception in this Chamber, because the honourable fellow Members say everything, especially from the government side, only that they are kicking away from what is in this Sargentini report. Let's get this straight. In particular, such a parliamentary report consists of nothing more than one anzisza of the various investigations of the various European, even non-European, but official institutions, a assembled mosaic, i.e. Mrs Sargentini has made nothing but the materials of the UN, the OECD, the European Union, the Council of Europe and many more, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, the Hungarian court, the Hungarian government and even millions of other official institutions; there is no conflicted milligram of civilians or such an opinion in this report. Another issue is that, of course, these signals, which have been made by various organisations, committees of inquiry and others in Hungary, can draw certain conclusions. But when the Fidesz MEPs here complain that Viktor Orbán was given only seven minutes at the plenary session of the European Parliament, Péter Szijjártó was given much more time at the relevant committee meeting, I would like to say that they should be happy, because that is not what they should be, they simply are not. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] Well, no, but in essence, I would like to say that there is a specific forum for the governments of the Member States, which is called the Council for the European Council and even for the ministers. Now, Viktor Orbán, not only Viktor Orbán, the current Hungarian Prime Minister, spends at least one day every month, if not two, at the European Council meeting, discussing the great things of Europe with his colleagues. [[16.30]] But there are ministers, there is no day that one of the Hungarian ministers is not in Brussels for any of the Council formations. In other words, the Hungarian government presence in the Council and in the European Council is virtually continuous. Therefore, you do not have to complain that they are not able to make their voices heard, so to speak, in Brussels, but that is all they know. There's a huge building for you, by the way, for this purpose. The Council is so big that it is bigger than Parliament. I would like to add that all the European Parliament has done at the moment is that it has made certain findings and said that I ask you with respect, then let the Member States discuss this matter. That is to say, the European Parliament has no decision in the heavens and in the earth and Article 7 and I don't know what it has brought, it has said that governments of dear Member States, there is that beautiful Council for you, and you should discuss whether you believe that the threat of violation of the rule of law is in Hungary or not. For this reason, it is practically unnecessary to hysterical around a Parliament and a rapporteur. By the way, let me just reply: one of the so-called Fidesz Members found that they counted the number of colleagues in Ujhely and myself who took part in such votes, which you believe to be affecting migration somewhere. Those 16, I don't think is right, I think it's a lot more than that. Although it must also be said that if you are faced with migration on paper, you will immediately jump on the non-button, no matter what the content of it is. We have voted in favour of proposals, with respect, which serve to resolve this issue together: for example, our desire for common border protection, for example, when it comes to voting money for Frontex, so that they can adequately protect borders in the Mediterranean and in other places. And I will continue to vote for them. If you think it was 16, I think I will go without further ado because, yes, we can only defend Europe's borders together. Let me just say to you that if someone can get into the European Union through Spain, the next day you can walk on the streets of Budapest and what are you doing? That is precisely the point that we all share the same boundaries, together and according to the same standards. By the way, you guys are already apologizing for the technical term, like the local badass guy standing in front of the culture and banging on about who scolded my mom. First of all, nobody. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] There's a need, though. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] No one, really. For example, there is no European Union paper or European Parliament paper in which it would be written that Hungary has no right to decide who will be admitted. With all due respect, all 28 EU Member States can let in whoever they want and keep whoever they want outside their borders. If the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian government, believe that no one can move in or out here, and a piece of man can't move in any direction, then that's what we have, no one in the world will say. So in Hungarian, there is no need to fear sovereignty of things that simply do not exist, there is no need or obligation or anything similar to who the Hungarian authorities will let in or whom they will not let in. By the way, if the Hungarian authorities were to assess the applications that were requested in such a distribution mechanism, they would be able to judge if they said not one for that 1300, then none. There's nothing dramatic about it. However, I am very pleased that they will appeal to the European Court of Justice in this whole matter, in the grievances you consider. I am pleased with this because you have fully admitted that there is a European legal order, but there are European laws that must be respected. You want to enforce it, well, imagine now, the other 27 Member States want to enforce it, for example, in Hungary, the rule of law and much more. However, if we ask the question by asking what is the Hungarian interest, I would like to say that it is by no means the psychosis that you are organizing here in this whole issue. The Hungarian interest is cooperation, a series of European cooperations, and there are a lot of them, a huge amount of areas where cooperation could be achieved. Let me just give you a concrete example: the euro area member states of the European Union are now thinking about a common budget, a euro budget, which has such a beautiful part that they will jointly take on the things of unemployment benefits and job-seeking benefits. Why should Hungary stay out of this? I'm serious. Why don't we deal with these things? In addition, we put it down last October-November, for example, although Viktor Orbán kept calling it lame, then he signed the European Pillar of Social Rights in Gothenburg. Then our colleague Korózs will give you plenty of information about this. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right!]] , but there are 20 items describing the social rights to be acquired, secured and financed in Europe. These aren't jokes! I have yet another bad news: this morning in the European Parliament, we discussed who were there, because I was on my way, so the Members discussed the weight of the two main items on the agenda that should be discussed in the next European Council in October. Migration could not get the gold medal, the gold medalist became the Brexit theme, although I myself believe that the issue of migration really has a lot to deal with. But the reason I'm telling you this is because, for example, I'm more excited about the fact that this 100-200 thousand people who are in England today are Hungarian people, what will happen to them than that we would take in 50 or 100 or 200 Syrians, or Egyptian or any refugee. In particular, [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] I would like to thank Mrs Kunhalmi very much for the addition, compared to the fact that almost thousands of residents with a completely confused and criminal background are being released. Now, that's something you two need to deal with. Finally, I would like to say two things. One is that in an interesting way there are different surveys in the European Union: there has been a turnaround, please respectfully, at the moment in every country in Europe the European institutions have more responsibility than the national governments in question. That's something Fidesz needs to learn from. No matter how many billions, chandeliers were spent on their stupid propaganda, the Hungarian people are ironically pro-European and, according to every available statement, they agree with the Sargentini report. And one more thing I would like to emphasise here is what should be dealt with. I can announce to you with great personal pride and happiness that today was the vote in the European Parliament on the permanent VAT system for the future. Thank God, they accepted my report, the Szanyi report, at an 80% rate, which includes, among other things, setting a ceiling for VAT, and that is, in fact, 25 percent. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]] Now, these things should be discussed here, because it is completely unnecessary to abuse Europe in terms of migration, migration, when it comes to very, very serious economic cooperation. And I would like to say as a very last: that the Sargentini report was timed, sorry, this is a business issue, there is no political background; some people are happy about it, some are unhappy about it. But it is certain that the Sargentini report has led to the eyes of Western citizens, that, in fact, the Orbán government and its associates are stealing and stealing their money. So far there have been rumors and newspapers and bonmos and they've let go of the fact that there must be irregularities... No, it was the industrial theft that Europe was actually satisfied with. And you're migranting to cover your sins. That is why I voted in favour of the Sargentini report, and if Mrs Sargentini had written this report a hundred more times, I would still vote in favour, and I would stress it not because it says what about Hungary, but because in a European community you understand the word community? We do have the right to say what the other person's things are and what they're not. If you cannot live with this community, I say that you have a free ticket to Kazakhstan or wherever you want to go, we will stay here and make Europe. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-89	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Halász.
u2018-10-03-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, After Tibor Szanyi, it's not easy to speak [[Tibor Szanyi: Then sit down. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I do not want to throw the debate out of the process that you are in right now. I'm sure the two-minute guys will respond to all the nonsense he's been telling us. Here at the beginning of the debate, when we started, Minister Gergely Gulyás made our position very clear about the Sargentini report, the report which, we know, is a political indictment, we know that it was adopted by fraud. Minister of State has demonstrated thoroughly and precisely that the only point of the report is to condemn Hungary for the Hungarian migrant policy. [[16.40]] We do not allow migrants in, we have a legal, physical border lock, we have built a fence, and that is why we are being punished. Nevertheless, the opposition here is telling their own nonsense, lying that the report does not attack Hungarian migrant regulation or border protection, but it does. If the report is consulted and Article 65 is examined, this is on page 26, the rapporteur, Mrs Sargentini, refers to a work of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance. This European Commission against Racism and Intolerance made recommendations on Hungary, published on 15 May 2018 a conclusion on their implementation, and in these conclusions it found the anti-migratory response measures taken in Hungary shocking. It's in the Sargentini report. The rapporteur agrees with this opinion, thus putting it in his report, literally, agrees with this committee, but this committee, we see, is attacking the Hungarian response to migration, it simply finds it shocking, it would abolish, that is, our most important response, the fence, the border protection. It also attacks the Hungarian border barrier, so they attack the Hungarian border protection, which is why we were forced to propose it last Monday in the National Security Committee, and I proposed that the National Security Committee listen to national security services, and we should listen to what the experiences of the last three years regarding border protection and border closure have shown us, because this is also important for our orientation, because we see that the Sargentini report ultimately threatens our security. We will do this next Tuesday, and they will surely hear about it as soon as they hear about it, and we will see that Brussels wants to open the borders and not close the borders for migrants, and they want to take away our border protection opportunity to allow more immigrants in. Brussels continues to push immigration policy fully, they want to take this border protection right away from us, and this Parliamentary resolution proposal that we have before us responds to this Sargentini report. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] That's a political indictment, that's a political answer. You have said several times that we are giving a political answer, and we are not denying it, and we have said it. And there is a final point in this parliamentary decision proposal, which is why it was included, which I just said, and this last point of content says that we say that Hungary itself defends its borders, we maintain the fence, and we do not allow them to take away the right of border surveillance from us. We won't allow it. This proposal for a resolution, as the Hungarian people authorised us to do on 8 April, and this is also an obligation for us, we will vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-91	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2018-10-03-92	Thank you for the floor. I would like to talk about what is not about the content of this report, but about its consequences. The fact is that this report has not been good for Hungary's country image, so that the euphemism of the day... [[The congressman's mic keeps creaking. Intercoms from the ruling parties, among other things: The phone! Another exit! They're leaving the faction again! Defiance.]] No, no, not yet. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. So in terms of country image, it may not have done good, it may not have done good in terms of Hungary's ability to build coalitions. But country image is something you think is probably only important to the weak, although there was a center like this before my time, and it's only important to those who care what different Western European newspapers write, which you don't, because you're fighting against the world press. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that Commissioner János Martonyi still sounds familiar at his ministerial hearing in 2010 said that the most important task of Hungarian diplomacy is to improve the image of the country. Fidesz's foreign policy may not have met this maxim in 2010, but I would like to explain the fact that it is important to have a good Hungarian country image. For example, it is important because, now that we are here, there is a very similar debate in the European Parliament on the rule of law in Romania. Now, let us allow this fact alone to affect the contention of your double standard, let us let it be, let us talk about the fact that Tamás Deutsch, who was sitting here in a major part of the debate, could read out how the opposition MEPs voted for what he did, would not rather have had to sit there in the state of law debate and represent the interests of minority Hungarians. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] How you will know today in the European Parliament, where the rule of law in Romania is concerned, to build coalitions after you have already betrayed Transylvanian Hungarians and allowed Romania into the European Parliament [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] You didn't ask for anything in return? How will they now be able to stand up for Transylvanian Hungarians, what coalitions will they be able to build within the People's Party or the European Parliament? What will they say to your colleagues? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] When you stand up and tell us what civil rights have been violated in Romania? They will be laughed at in the European Parliament, my dear fellow Members, and you will not be drinking the money here, but the people to whom the Romanian Prime Minister said they would hang by the Szekler flag. They are being let down because it is the case, and it is quite important that it is clear that Viktor Orbán should have reached a compromise on two things with the People's Party majority: my alma mater, the Soros University, the CEU and the media law. In relation to CEU, I would like to comment on one sentence: besides spending very good years there as an environmental student, I had a teacher there who talked about how much he met George Soros, this name may sound familiar to you, but it may not be: Zoltán Illés, I don't know if he's saying anything to any of them, he taught me at CEU. At the time there was no problem with the so-called Soros University, you didn't want to shut it down yet, but a secretary of state at the time taught me waste management, otherwise very high-quality. In these classes, he told me that he spoke to György Soros in person several times, but interestingly enough time... [[János Halász: He lied many times...]] If you've lied a lot, my dear fellow Fisherman, then why have you always been Secretary of State in your government? [[János Halász intervenes.]] That's the question. So if you think that he is not a man of good quality, then you shouldn't have forced him on Hungarian people all the time. [[Complaining from the ranks of the ruling parties: Constantly...]] But then I'd go on. The thing is, there's another contradiction that you've run into here, by the way, a few contradictions. One is that they make two statements. One of the claims is that Hungary is leading an increasingly international coalition against migration. So the position of the Hungarian government is, in fact, a majority position, but it is also considered that the Hungarian government is oppressed and, in fact, the most oppressed minority in Europe is the Hungarian government, which everyone regrets. Now, I feel a contradiction in the two, but I'd have a different explanation. The Danish Government has tightened its immigration law 67 times in 2015, and the V4 governments, including you, are in such a very good relationship with Slovakia, which, by the way, does not recognise dual citizenship in the last eight years, and has introduced a repressive language law, which you have not had one word about in the great national interest organisation, but this Slovak Government has also been against stopping illegal migration. But I can tell you more about governments that have done so. There is a new Austrian government, but the Bulgarian government used to hold a similar position in 2015 with the Fidesz regime, which you acknowledged then. Now, my question is, if these governments were in a similar position to you in terms of migration, then why wasn't there a report against them? Then why wasn't there something against them in the European Parliament, why wasn't there a rule of law procedure, why wasn't there something about the Sargentini report? [[János Halász intervenes.]] Because they're targeting one at a time. Couldn't it be because they did something other than oppose migration? So I understand that you are saying that the kind of foreign policy that the Socialists represented to dare to be small was wrong, and I agree with that, but perhaps the courage to be simple and only one case is very unsuccessful. Your foreign policy -- simple -- they're talking about a case, like Moricka: if someone says that minority rights are migration; if you say that healthcare is migration. The fact is, that is not why you received the Sargentini report at the moment, otherwise the Danish government, which closed the German border, would have left long ago. But perhaps the problem was that the State Audit Office in Denmark did not steal 600 million forints from parties? [[János Halász: Something stinks in Denmark! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It was very high-quality once again, fellow Member of the Fisherman. Is it possible that the judicial powers will not be amended in favour of Fidesz or the governing party there in other countries? [[16.50]] Maybe there was a difference? Because if there was a difference in these, the answer to my contradiction raised the previous time is that if this whole Sargentini report was due only to migration, then what the baker is talking about is only Hungary. Why? Couldn't it be because you may have used the Prime Minister to use the Strasbourg plenary session in such a way that he doesn't represent the interests of Hungary, but rather sets the stage for the conduct of the Fidesz EP campaign? He said that he did not try to expand Hungary's margin at any level, he simply said the statement that he said would represent the largest majority in May. And the fact is that this means that Hungarian foreign policy is subject to their political interests. I would like to mention that I have heard four times that there has been fraud in the European Parliament. Yeah, okay, I've had it how do I say it? quite a variety of reactions to this. I think that it is not worth talking on the part of the opposition about the fact that the two-thirds of what the OSCE has said has been committed by fraud, either, because this draws attention to a fundamental issue. But what is it with you, if not a whining to use the words of the media that you and you have held out? It's a tantrum! My apologies, the majority of your people's party voted against you. Don't try to explain the certificate, tell me why this happened. I want you to make some self-critical statement for once in your life. [[Lajos Korózs: You're asking for impossible.]] It's okay. I'll do it anyway. I would also like to get to the point where we stand on migration. The need to stop illegal migration is currently not only your position in Hungary. I know you can read a quote from anyone in 2015, which is why I prepared a few quotes from 2015 because it's their favorite year. I'd start from a man. Péter Szijjártó after János Martonyi said that, therefore, we think that it would be fair, that it would be fair for everyone to take part in the treatment of immigration pressure on a compulsory basis; so if we are talking about quotas for immigration, then we should talk about world quotas and world quotas, we will raise this in the UN this week. When the United Nations was not yet an enemy, you were talking about world quotas. Your migration position is as granite-solid as their Fundamental Law, it always changes when Árpád Habony believes it needs to be amended. I'm going on, it's my favorite 2015 quote from Fidesz. I hope you can figure out who gave it to you. I don't think it's the territory of Parliament for such interactive things, but I'm doing an experiment. The Muslim faith, which we value and respect, is not responsible for the causes of the phenomenon of mass migration, I urge everyone to work together to prevent the spread of anti-Muslim emotions. This was said by Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary in 2015. This has also been good in recent years. Yeah, I'm sure that's what they think. Of course, if you look at the M1 news, Mr. Secretary, about forty-seven times, what kind of low-level crime you've committed is a browner-colored man than I am, then you think that's how Fidesz is political. I hope you'll at least believe that statement yourself. I'm moving on. The fact is that, as far as migration is concerned, illegal migration is wrong, because there is a European consensus and a Hungarian consensus. However, there is one other thing in which there is a Hungarian national consensus. I promise you that I will not quote János Martonyi in this comment again. He said that there is a national consensus that Hungary should belong somewhere, that we have a place in the world, and that this is the Western world, where our values and interests belong. That's the thing. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I agree with that.]] It's very good, if you still agree, well, the thing is, there are consequences. The word "value" has consequences here. There are consequences of, say, not doing what we did with the ax killer, what I could understand as a Kusturica movie, because we didn't even get government bonds. Or, for example, we do not do that, depending on where the Hungarians come from, who we want to conclude a trade agreement with. But we don't do things like if someone says that the OBH president has concerns about the power to cancel his application, then we tell them he's a traitor. This also does not fit in Western values. It also doesn't fit into the civil values that have given you authority a few times. I'll keep going. There's still a philosophical problem here with the way you're going back to everything. The fact that everyone has been fired from Századvég magazine because they do not agree with you; the fact that you have made a regulation whereby people living in partnerships are disadvantaged compared to those who raise children in marriage; the fact that you tell them which course you can teach, whether you can't have a gender degree or not, whether you can have a CEU here or not, is that you, as the former party of which you were a youth class, figure out that you can decide how to live for everyone. You know what to teach in this country, you know how to raise children, you know everything, and you refuse to listen to any other opinion. The fact is that you think, after the three-thirds of the time, that this gives you the right to tell us, instead of the Hungarian people, how to live, what to learn, how to raise children. You no longer believe in the freedom of the Hungarian people, you believe that if you come up with something in the Fidesz communications department, then everyone must live up to it. There is always an alternative to civil democracy, and those who claim otherwise are actually assisting in the elimination of democracy. [[Lajos Korózs: Viktor Orbán.]] That's right, my colleague Korózs made it up, Mr Orbán said that. My colleague Kósa said that there is no alternative to this proposal for a decision. Or home, or there's no alternative. A Democrat who believes in civil democracy can never say that. Unlike the Fidesz Congress, there is always an alternative in this House. This may not be customary for you, because there are always so many people voted for in one position empty, but there is still an alternative in this House, that is the case. And, you know, you always want to save the nation, and there's nothing wrong with the nation. Hungary is fine, the Hungarian nation has survived worse and worse things than you, it will survive you. The fact is that Hungary is absolutely fine. The government is not well. Do not keep trying to save Hungary and figure out what new direction this thousand-year-old nation needs and figure out who has to live personally. No one needs this. You shouldn't be playing the fight of the worlds and protecting us from major global disasters, you should be able to get people to John's Hospital without getting hospitalized. Try to deal with Hungary a little bit, try to deal with what they were empowered to do, and do not worry about making them feel good in the battle of the great worlds when they go to bed at home in their dolphin pool house! Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-93	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2018-10-03-94	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin my speech on a matter that seems to be unrelated to this report, but it is actually as closely linked to it as possible. Yesterday I visited a children's home, in particular István Károlyi Children's Centre in Fót. I've been searching for a number of children's homes in recent years, using my rights as a representative. I'm trying to find out what you guys are up to. We know that the Fotian children's home is located in a very nice area, and we also know that you want to dissect it, as you say, in fact, you want to eliminate it. According to government communication, they want to take children from there to other children's homes. So yesterday I was in Foton, and I had the opportunity to visit this special children's home, which was handed over in 2010. Just to make them feel a little bit about the situation there, because you don't often show up in children's homes, you tend to 32 boys with special needs who suffer from psychiatric disorders, have behavioural problems, have drug problems; we are talking about children in very difficult situations. At the first moment, I noticed that there was no heat in the facility. I would like to point out that not only was there no heating in the special children's home, but practically nowhere in the area of the center, where there are schools, kindergartens and other institutions. I got the information that there was a school that sent the kids home at noon, and they sat there all morning in a big coat, because the boiler didn't work, the boiler was broken. This is a $6 million piece of equipment, gentlemen. Listen to me, please, because this is an important issue. So this boiler would cost 6 million forints. [[Mihály Witzmann: Did you go in the summer?]] What are you yelling? Push the button. Be kind, Mr President, and fix this because you are disturbing the speech. [[Lajos Korózs: He says why heat in the summer. Dr. András Aradszki: We do what Congresswoman does: she interjects, interjects.]] Can we get back to work, gentlemen? Thank you. So it would cost 6 million forints to replace the boiler that would make it possible for anyone who lives and works at the children's center in Fót and all the other institutions to sit and work there, not croaking and cold. I would like to state that in this country there are still illegal highlights from families that happen because they consider that families do not provide the right conditions for children, there is housing poverty, there is energy poverty, in Hungarian: they cannot heat up their homes. [[17.00]] These children get out of the family, into an institution where they can't heat. Here we are now, this is Hungary 2018. Not only would you improve these institutions, look at my blog, I've written down a lot of institutions, let alone develop them, but they can't practically maintain them, there's no source. Where I've been, the walls are moldy, the building's fading. They can do something from the donation of people of different helpful intentions, but there were some places where the air was so moldy that I admire the fact that everyone who lives and works there doesn't have asthma. However, I would like to say that there is this special children's home where I was yesterday, which was created in 2010 with HUF 152 million from EU funds, and now they want to eliminate HUF 224 million from EU money. This is how you would treat this institution. It is also linked to the lack of resources that most children do not receive the proper care they need. Because there is not enough space in the supply systems and they cannot meet the needs. There is a group of so-called National Children's Protection Expert Committees, although they can offer increasingly sophisticated methods of providing therapeutic suggestions to the children concerned, if, please, gentlemen and ladies, there is nowhere to send the children to where this committee proposes. There's a shortage of seats. I think it is important to say this now because I think that in the year of families, as you call this year, it is important to address this issue. I'm talking about old boilers, moldy walls, continuous depreciation, lack of space, lack of expertise, bad wages. 'Cause we all know how much people work there, how much they make, and since their wages haven't changed. I spoke to them in the '70s, who dealt with so-called specialized children, got a third of his salary plus, and now you're poking your eyes out with tens of thousands of forints, respected family-friendly government. And how do these things I'm talking about relate to this proposal? By showing that while you, a respected government, are constantly fighting imaginary enemies, the vast majority of Hungarian families, Hungarian children and Hungarian people watch a very different movie. Brussels is not their enemy, Brussels is not their enemy. Brussels is not the opponent for these people, Hungarian families, Hungarian children and Hungarian workers. They're basically fighting for survival, with very bad wages, sometimes under very bad conditions, very difficult everyday, day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, and I don't know how long. While you're sitting here, there are eight Fideszes-KDNP Members and a Secretary of State, I don't know how many children's homes there are cold in Hungary. That's what we should be talking about. The thing is, you're not going anywhere near reality. I asked people there when there was a politician. I asked him in Zalaegerszeg, Kalocsa, I asked him in Esztergom, Foton, I asked him in a bunch of children's homes. About the answer I got was that there was a time when the individual representative came because he had to cut a ribbon. We know these pictures. You can cut through the tape. But are you there when it comes to problems? No. You will come in here and read to me from paper that Mrs Judith of Sargentini has hurt Hungary badly. So, that's below the level, gentlemen. I'll tell you honestly, I'd suggest you all get up out of here and go to these institutions. You're in government now, and we're in opposition. It's your primary responsibility that things don't go that way. This proposal that you put on the table, by the way, shows me with pride what kind of reality you live in. We have also observed in recent years that the bigger the problem, the higher you turn the potmeter, the potmeter of migrantism, and this outrageous proposal that you have put together here is nothing more than a cheap propaganda material, practically a qualified case of incitement to the European community. I really object in every way to the fact that, while there are many real problems in Hungary that affect millions of people in this country, Fidesz and KDNP representatives are having public fun making such proposals and forcing opposition politicians to talk about it here in the house of the country. Because this is the country's house. This is about people's problems. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who makes you?]] Don't yell at me, Congressman. Get on the train, I want you to go and see what's going on in the world. Moreover, what you are saying in this proposal is a complete lie. Let's talk about sovereignty then. You know perfectly well that the Hungarian Fundamental Law, even in its now rooted state, provides that we share part of the sovereignty of the country with the European Community. This is what our accession to the European Community was about, to renounce some of sovereignty and to exercise it together with the European Union. And we can't make any laws here that are contrary to EU rules, by the way. Moreover, you know exactly as I do that, according to Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, is based on our community with the European Community. It's a community of values. And if someone violates this community of values, abuses its assets, then there will be consequences. Now there's a consequence. That's what happened. There are some anecdotes that say that the Prime Minister turned to his Polish colleagues and colleagues and told them to be quick, because the European Union is slow. It may be slow, but this moment, you knew it would happen sooner or later. Now they're standing right in front of him. And what can they do? It's an outrageous piece of propaganda. The second point is to refer to this report as the pro-immigration indictment. It's a simple argument, there's this speculant businessman, we know who, and then there's the Union, they want to tear down your sacred cow, the fence, and they want to take away your border guard's rights, of course, and you're gonna stop the border guard, and then you're not gonna let that happen, and at all, everyone who says that whatever the European Union is right about is a, I don't know, traitor. There's a few more things here in this report. Then let the areas on which the European Parliament and, by the way, your own party family have raised objections should be said here and now in the Hungarian Parliament without the need for completeness. Because I'd like to say that you didn't get the toughest criticism from your opponent, but from your own. You are already a deserter in the eyes of your own party family because you are unable to conform to European standards. We will talk about this, because you have been given the opportunity to restore the normal course of things, only the Prime Minister has not taken advantage of it. Then let's talk about it. One-party constitutionalisation, systematic reduction of the system of brakes and counterweights, impairment of the powers of the Constitutional Court, failure to declare judicial applications without justification, the transferability of judges by the President of the OBH, the position of the Chief Prosecutor, concentration of media ownership, the unity of the Media Council, lack of balanced information. Let's talk about the steps to combat the freedom of science and education that are still taking place while we're sitting here in this House. Let's talk about lex CEU, what OLAF has discovered, for example, about the many corruptions, the personalisation of public procurement procedures, the anti-humane treatment of refugees, which I have experienced myself. Because unlike you, I was in the transit zone talking to women who had not been fed in the Hungarian transit zone for three or four days, and I saw the 25 children behind barbed wire for months. That's what I saw, and that's what the report's talking about. That's what this report is all about. You cannot settle this here in the Hungarian Parliament with so much that everyone here who disagrees with you is a traitor. No. And, by the way, Viktor Orbán himself made a huge lie in Parliament when he said that you would never object to silencering your political opponents. Well, a whole opposition saw in the campaign what you didn't do in order to remain in power. There's a couple right next to me that almost got kicked off the field because they were so afraid of them. But you could tell the other parties what they did to us. What they used the independent institutions they possessed. Is that what you're saying, that you don't want to silence your political opponents? Yes, you can. I could tell you myself that here in Parliament, because I raised a card about how much money László Fat has taken from me, and then the right to speak. I was constantly punished, even though I did nothing but represent the opposition in the Hungarian Parliament. [[17.10]] So just back off a little bit, gentlemen, and think a little bit about how, as an overture to your EP campaign, this production you've done here will be believable to how many Hungarians. This is indeed the third two-thirds, but we've been watching you on the government for eight years, and we're in the moldy-walled, bled, destroyed children's homes. There are the cold children, there are the Hungarian families who will be cold. There's the lack of housing, there's the hunger, there's the huge shortage of workers, because anyone who can, runs, goes abroad. Because Ukrainian migrant workers have just been invited to Hungary, because the Hungarian man no longer knows where he washes his dishes. So, I'm sorry, but there's no way to settle this with the fact that Bernadette Wind and the opposition are pro-Soros, and everyone here wants to pet the migrants. And here's the other thing we need to talk about. I've got that document right here, the government document that leaked. This was published on the G7 paper, and it is about Hungary's fall from HUF 500 billion due to irregularities in public procurement checks and procurement procedures. What happened? What happened was that you ruined it. You are now stealing so much of EU money that we all see what the consequences are, but this country will not actually receive HUF 500 billion, because you are simply unable to control the processes that should be controlled normally. It is very interesting what communication panel you have provided at the end of this report. Specifically, the Ministry said that they have to do crisis communication, that they must not stand up for a press conference here, and that panel they have to say that for years anti-immigration EU leaders have been consistently trying to pressure our country to allow for mass illegal immigration, and to this end we would also use the withdrawal of EU development resources as a tool against our country. This is the communication panel we've been listening to all day. That's the communication panel Fidesz-KDNP keeps saying. What's this all about? It's about you guys stealing and cheating and lying for years, just trying to cover it up. Well, the thing is, this is a moment when there are no more fig leaves, so stand up and be kind and tell us what Hungary will get in return for what you have done to us. Tell me what you've brought this country into. Because you brought us into this, but the country is suffering, and that's your responsibility.
u2018-10-03-95	Thank you. It will now be possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the opportunity to speak to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2018-10-03-96	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, We can't just pass by the speech that Congressman Ungár has left of one or two people at the end of the LMP. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Go, go, KDNP!]] He sent us here in his speech. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What percentage is KDNP? Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] First of all, I would like to reject the fact that you call rape, murder, stabbing all over Europe a small-scale crime committed by migrants. I would also like to reject this on behalf of the victims and the families of the victims. I don't think we should use that tone in these cases. Congressman, the country image has never been so good, this is what the export numbers show, the tourist numbers. In the Western press, which you hold extremely high, Budapest regularly gets first, second or third place among tourist destinations. The airport's traffic is at an unprecedented rate, tourism revenues are breaking unprecedented records, just like exports. This is the country image, honourable Member. The debate on the rule of law in Romania, which is still taking place in the EP, you were worried that Congressman Tamás Deutsch would be here to represent you. I would like to point out that, thanks to the voters, we do not have one MEP, but 12, so they are sitting there in the debate and obviously representing Hungarian interests. And, Congressman, you're the one who's talking about turncoats; you're the ones who change their communications the way Ron Werber whistles. [[An uproar from the opposition side.]] You have now dealt with the issue of Hungarians across the border several times here, in half of your speech, worrying about the issue of Hungarians across the border; in 2011 the LMP took the view that they did not support the right to vote either in theory or in practice. Your representative said at the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin that the LMP does not support the right to vote either in theory or in practice beyond the borders. That's how we got here. I'm glad the LMP's position has changed, but that's where we've come from. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-97	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár for two minutes.
u2018-10-03-98	Thank you so much for the floor. Then let's talk about the Western press that we say we love so much. If you don't care about what's in the Western press, why does the entire ambassadorial staff spend their time writing letters to Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung from Vienna to Berlin? So why are you doing this? [[Delight and applause in the benches of opposition parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: There is no ambassador!]] The thing is... there's no ambassador here. I understand that there is no ambassador here, but you know that you are on the government, and you appoint them, who then hystericalize and write readers' letters about various exhibitions in Austria and the Netherlands and the things on page 6 of the foreign policy section. You guys, if there's a bad article in Politico, the journalist is attacked by the Prime Minister himself, so much they can't take criticism. What country image is it that fears that if a piece of the wrong article appears, what will happen? The thing about you and your countryism is that since you are constantly putting Hungarian interest protection under party policy, there is nothing more to be said about our country than that we do not want liberal democracy and we do not want migration. About what we want, it's not about our country image. Congressman Nacsa, the sights of Budapest were built during the golden age during dualism. I regret to inform you that Viktor Orbán was not the Prime Minister of this country at the time. He was the Prime Minister of this country at the time, and he's the reason these people are coming here, which they built after the settlement, not because of the Orbán government. So maybe if you didn't take this on, that would be wonderful. The other one. What M1 News is like, it's also a democratic decision, you can see from the fact that, if you say, you divide it by any other, even cable TV, based on the 100 forints spent on tax money/watcher. I think, how can I say, Cat TV's a lot more people watch when you look at it like that? As much money as you spend on it, there is simply no Hungarian citizen who can watch one person log in every kilometer to say good day, two migrants have left here as well. This is your public television. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-99	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to tell Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa that there is no possibility of another two minutes in this circle. So I now give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla in a normal speech.
u2018-10-03-100	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, The truth is that in the last few hours, I have seen that we have started talking about all sorts of subjects and that there have been all kinds of issues that have been going on in this House over the past few years. But basically, the proposal for a resolution, which is being debated today, may be less and less spoken by the speakers, and I say to Mrs Bernadett Szél that it is good, generalising Members, but look, Congresswoman. I've been elected sixth in my own district, and I know it's not all right, there's a lot of work to be done, and there's a lot of work to be done. And on top of that, yes, we may still be sitting here, but I occasionally and regularly go to a nursing home where there are sick babies, or very hard-core mothers who get a little shelter there. But basically, your generalization is that it's insulting, in the meantime, to believe that, of course, there are problems, only the other part is that there are Members who consider such matters to be a matter of heart and try to help, even to raise donations, to donate and to do such things. Basically, when we are discussing the political proposal for a decision on the report, i.e. the Sargentini report and its reaction, it is a fact and a fact that many examples and a variety of pros and cons can be set to show what is good and what is not good. It is possible to go into different details, but it is perhaps worth saying one thing in summary: the report itself states that it is examining cases which do not fall within the scope of Community law in a decisive way and in most of its scope. It is therefore interfering in matters which the European Parliament has nothing to do with which it is solely a national competence. The report is therefore a pre-existing violation of the rule of law and no more than the majority of the European Parliament. Unfortunately, it still stands today, but we'll see what happens next spring. [[17.20]] Hopefully not for long. Those who are now in the majority, I hope that this will not be the case, who typically want to take the European Community towards federalism. While we are talking about what is going on in the Sargentini report, it is worth noting that it is a fact and a fact that there is an important background to the fact that, yes, a debate is taking place in Europe, and one of the central issues of this debate is migration. And another debate is taking place, the central issue of which may be that this European Community in the coming years, which, let us say, has now undergone a major change in recent years, will form a federalist community in the coming years, or will essentially represent a community of national interests or nations, national states. This debate is currently under way. When we talk about federalist ideas, yes, it can be linked to what we call migration, when we say yes, that migrants should come. We see that Hungary, at the time when it could, has, after the first troubles, launched a process that may not have been typical in the European Community, for example. In addition, we have seen that I have participated in several debates and roundtable discussions in various countries or events, where perhaps the main question was whether the Schengen and the Dublin Convention were appropriate to essentially halt illegal immigration. In fact, there was a Schengen border in Hungary at the time. If someone came to the border control point and said they wanted to cross the border as some kind of citizen, different rules must be complied with. Only when the migrant flood started, these people did not go to the border crossing, but they crossed the green border, which was essentially protected by no means at that time, by any technical means. They walked across the green border, and then the police or the police could catch them, but the end was that they came in so many crowds that they started herding these masses, because there was no proper legislation on how to deal with them. Basically, from the moment on, this issue of the European Community's tightening up of border protection, the tightening up of illegal migration has basically been shared. He has also divided the various political forces, but I do not want to get involved in this right now, because this might also mean a separate conversation. But let's keep looking. The aim of this report, the Sargentini report, is to condemn and brand Hungary and the Hungarian people. It is clear that this is about Hungary, not the Hungarian Government. The decision of the European Parliament contains a draft text for the Council of the Union, the Council of the European Union, which literally reads:. This decision is addressed to Hungary. The aim of those who voted in favour of this report is to place Hungary under international guardianship, because they do not like the decisions of the Hungarians, the choices of the elections, the decisions that we have made with the opportunities and the powers that people have entrusted to them on the one hand. On the other hand, it is indeed the sovereign right of the Hungarian State or Hungary to make its own decisions on matters which are not the responsibility of the European Community, but that is the only thing that many do not like and do not like at the moment. This is the movement you feel when you talk about different topics, that sooner or later we always come back to these questions. It is very interesting that we talk about these issues very often at these various international events and meetings, and in many cases we do not bring them up, but rather the partners we are meeting, not to mention that, from a security policy point of view, NATO and basically NATO Parliamentary Assembly are a priority topic for tackling illegal migration. Believe me, basically everyone approaches this issue from a security point of view. Since it has been said here several times that Frontex, including Frontex, is an important institution, let us not forget that Frontex does not work in full border protection, but is basically involved in border surveillance on one side and immigration on the other. That is why it is basically said, and it is now not only in the European Community, but also in the United Nations, that illegal immigration must be made legal in some form. This is a huge threat, and a huge threat to what can wait for Hungary in the coming years and decades can wait for Central Europe, even the European Community. That's what's really behind these decisions, and it's not a coincidence. Now such a procedure has been launched against Romania, and it has also started against the Poles, and it will start. Basically, these are countries that have been very strict over the past few years in migration matters. I wonder which countries you may be going against in the next period, because the fact is that the European Parliament has opened this box comes with a lot of other things. It is also possible, or it may be concluded, that, for whatever reason, they may, through a bureaucratic system, initiate such proceedings against any of the European Union's countries. Perhaps let me add that, at the end of my thoughts, there may be a situation in this Sargentini report, but I do not really want to talk about the style of the debate in the European Parliament, because I am sure that the many Members who have been said here, by the way, are directly elected, but are not directly elected, but indirectly through party lists, so aside from this small difference, I think that the tone in the European Parliament, and basically the way they spoke, was somehow inappropriate. The other part is that when we talk about Hungary and they say that against the Hungarian government, the Sargentini decision or report itself basically tags Hungary. Of course, there are items in it, but the fact is that this report may have set an example that sooner or later we will meet one of these from Poland, Romania. I think that is why a national Parliament must take such decisions, political decisions and marked decisions for the sovereignty of its own country. One more thing, how correct the report is. The experts of the Hungarian government clearly refuted items in a 108-page document. Of the 69 findings of the report, 37 are false or false, 19 are ongoing procedures, where there is continuous dialogue between the government and the EU institutions and 13 are closed cases. The Sargentini report therefore mentions things that we have been through, but it is good that it is included in this report, because it can be sold well, and a great media, a great chandelier can be assigned to these topics. I think that if, as a European, Central European person, what has been said in this report, we give our answers in Hungary, then I think we are on the right track to express this opinion. I ask whoever can and thinks that this decision will be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-101	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2018-10-03-102	In a proper time frame, isn't it, Mr. President? Thank you very much, because I didn't do anything else. I'd like to begin by saying that I think it's an old wisdom, that just because the indictment is a little weak doesn't mean the crime is true. Some points in the report may be debated in a way or in a way that it may be possible to put the emphasis elsewhere, but please, this report was born because you have made decisions in recent years that have had such consequences that you have had to prepare this report. This report wouldn't have been produced if you hadn't criminalised homelessness, this report wouldn't have been born, if the stigma of the poor hadn't been placed on your flag, if this report hadn't been published, if the Code of Work hadn't been constantly adapted from 2012 onwards, and had it not been for years, there wouldn't have been a mention in this report. [[17 .30]] If the invalids hadn't been humiliated in 2012, it wouldn't have been in the social chapter. Thus, each conclusion was made because the government majority, the government majority led by Fidesz, has made decisions in recent years. In this report, please, there are such findings, I read:. The right to strike is hardly valid in general, and in the public service only trade unions who are party to the agreement with the government can declare a strike. Please, this report is not about immigration, it is about government measures that undermine social rights and that you have stolen and robbed this country unscrupulously, which the European Union will no longer tolerate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Subway 4. Károly Kontra: Are you talking about subway 4?]] The majority of EPP politicians are also in this position, the majority of EPP politicians. You know very well that someday you'll pay a very high price, you know, that's why you're driving me around, that's why you're driving me around. Please, as I have said, regarding the right to strike, as you have limited the right to strike, it is legitimate that this is included in this report. They only favored labour taxes, favored multinationals, favored oligarchs, and humiliated Hungarian workers in every way. Hungarian workers are as vulnerable in this country as they have not been in any European country, as a result of the reform of the labour code. Only one country in Europe where unemployment benefits have been reduced to three months, while they know that every survey shows that at least four times that time is needed to find a job in Hungary, even in times of poverty when there is a shortage of labour in this country. You were the ones who passed this servants' bill, because a lot of people in this country are still looking so miserable for three shifts that they only have the opportunity to eat and some shelter from their salary, and you know perfectly well that those with only enough income to sleep and eat are slaves even in this country. Please, the quote highlighted in the other report, says the report in the case of social rights: "The criminalisation of homelessness violates international law, forced evictions without alternatives are problematic. Please, you know very well that no measures have been taken in recent years that would at least refer to a coherent housing policy, and that there is not one measure that would be sensitive to the problem of poverty. There were government measures, but you know perfectly well that they all failed. The program in Ocsai was immediately clogged, and they could not make any progress in the self-destructive institution, because we told them precisely that it should not be accepted in that form, because it is not good for clients, for municipalities or for financial institutions. The asset manager's options have been clogged, and I understand that they've been able to make 36,000 acquisitions, and there's no more resources. In English, only one problem could not be solved in this section. What can we do? If you had told me for years that a normative housing support would be introduced and that housing support would not be abolished, because your action has now resulted in this institutional form being terminated almost five years ago, it would not have been included in this report. If they told us to maintain the normative debt management service, it wouldn't be in the report, but you did the exact opposite. In Hungary, housing support was abolished and the debt management service was terminated. If they had said that the funds for housing were intended primarily to increase the housing stock, then this report would not have been produced here, and all opposition parties would have supported it, because there have been proposals for housing in the last few months, because we can see exactly what evictions there are in this country, and we can see precisely that there is a housing crisis in this country, then the representatives of opposition parties would have been partners in this, but no, you have brought the opposite, and it was your decision. We can clearly see that due to underfunding, a large part of the municipal authorities sell their existing social housing and because they lack money and have no other means of survival than to revive their property. Please, if you were looking for housing-type solutions to homelessness, we would have supported this, but you want to punish me. You think homeless people should be eliminated by taking cops to the homeless shelter? Do you think the solution is to punish these poor people? And now I'm reading in the morning that on the 15th, the shameful law adopted by the Fidesz majority in the last week of the spring session will come into force, and today, the annex to it was published in 178/2018. Government decree No. 2 of X, where the homeless are to be robbed of their last possessions, their last personal belongings? Because in this regulation, if you will not be able to solve storage capacity, you must confiscate and destroy your personal belongings. [[Károly Kontra: It's not true! That's not true!]] And no doubt, you will know precisely that there is no storage capacity, and that will be the reason to confiscate almost everything from these unfortunate people. If you had conducted a policy to eliminate segregation, housing segregation, if you had conducted a policy of socially targeted housing subsidies, not such as now, that only a fraction of the people below would have benefited from the state aid provided by the Budget Act, and only the rich and the upper middle class would have been given ten times as much as I say to those who need it, ten times as much, exactly, is calculated, please, then the opposition representatives would have supported this, and the social chapter of this report would not have been born, but you didn't do it, but you did the exact opposite. And, please, here is another chapter in the report on what you have done in the matter of pensions and the social security of elderly people. Please, in January 2012, measures have been adopted that have abolished all retirement pensions below the age limit! , abolishing the possibility of flexible retirement, abolishing early retirement, abolishing early retirement, abolishing mining pensions, abolishing artistic pensions, abolishing invalidity and accident invalidity pensions. My fellow Members, Hungary is the only country in the civilised part of the world where there is no invalidity or accident disability pension. It's the only one of these countries, but you've made such laws, and you've taken such measures. They applauded HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds, and last year they accounted for the whole thing, there is not a penny of it, and every person in this country who is a professional in this area knows that in a few years' time will miss the 3000 billion pension assets you have lived up to. And in addition, as you've led to retirement pensions, as you've humiliated the invalids, please, you've saved thousands of billions on this column. The self-management of social security has been abolished, the term has been removed from the Fundamental Law, and the fact that there would be social security in Hungary. The risk community has ceased, the national risk community has ceased. What I'm asking is that if the government wants to give, they give, but they don't have the right to give, if they don't want to give, they don't give. What can be done? I think that early retirement and early retirement pensions should be reinstated in this country, that professional staff should be entitled to a service pension, because you have also abolished this, the disabled and the disabled in the accident, and the disabled who have changed their ability to work, must have legal guarantees that at least guarantee their right to pension rights, because that is not the case today. And please, I also think, as the report states, that this HUF 28 500 minimum old-age pension is unworthy of people who have worked in this country for many years and decades, who have paid taxes and contributions, but they cannot show the amount of service time, they cannot justify, which would give them the opportunity to receive their own legal old-age pension, to provide them with a decent livelihood within the social security system. In English, if you hadn't destroyed the social security system, we wouldn't have mentioned this possibility here, and it wouldn't have been included in this report. You can also see exactly how the income of pensioners is distorted. [[17.40]] This inflation-following pension-raising technique breaks up the society of pensioners, which has not been seen in Hungarian history, at least in the Hungarian history after the Second World War. This is not only a question of the fact that a large number of people are virtually vegetating in this country as a result of the inflation-following pension increase, but it is also about the fact that people who recently retire with the same period of service and the same contribution will have an order of magnitude higher initial pensions than those who left the same profession two or three years ago, from the same job, earning the same amount of service. And please, we are talking about 30-40 percent pension differences here, and it was this government that abolished the contribution ceiling after 2012 and thus created the possibility of having a million-dollar pension. Today, 600,000 people have a pension of less than 100,000 forints out of 2 million 600,000 pensioners. This should be the issue of what quality of life these people will live in the coming years as a result of your government decision. Thank God, with the increase in wages, the income scissors between active employees and pensioners will also be torn apart, by the way, and as I have just mentioned to you: the income scissors between pensioners and pensioners will also be opened just because someone retired three years ago or is retiring just now. If you had passed laws to eliminate these problems, none of these findings would have been included in the report. Secondly, if such laws had been put before the Parliament, I guarantee you that all opposition MPs would have supported them. But, unfortunately, you chose differently. They have decided to make these laws. [[Károly Kontra: What have you done?]] These laws have been adopted and, consequently, this report has been adopted in the European Parliament, precisely because, among other things, the majority of MEPs know exactly how many villains have been committed in the last eight years. They know exactly what they're doing. [[Károly Kontra: And where did you leave your comb?]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-03-103	Thank you, Congressman. Now it will be possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Congressman Mihály Witzmann.
u2018-10-03-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I did not intend to comment in two minutes, but here the comments of the former LMP-Szél Bernadett and my fellow Members, Péter Ungár, who are still LMP-s, were inspired in any way. Their speeches show that the LMP, I think, is in a serious party organisation crisis, but this may not be where we should be aware of these speeches. [[Péter Ungár: Our speeches did not tell us, but others did.]] What am I thinking? He mentioned such things in his more than 15-minute speech, Bernadett Szel, of which more than two thirds were visited by the home, and roughly one third was characterized by his visit to the border, and the end was the comment, and finally he told us what the problem was, what bothered him that they were looking at us on the government for eight years. All I can say is that it was a democratic choice, ask people why they didn't choose you. And the same came out of my fellow Member, Mr Ungár, when he said that you guys were making everything up and that you thought it was good for people. You must have liked the Fidesz government here, my fellow Member, to think. I don't know why, for the third time, the same Hungarian people you are talking about, or are you talking about, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance? What you are saying, my fellow Member, is that the opponent is virtually speechless and that the Fidesz does not govern fairly or does not ask people. Well, that's exactly the government that asks people regularly. It's called a national consultation, which you guys are always scolding. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Uh-oh!]] And this is a national consultation that this government has two feet on, and decisions are taken accordingly. I would also like to respond very briefly to what we have also heard from Bernadet Szél, that there are eight Fidesz Members and one Secretary of State in the Chamber, and I think it is much more than that, but if I count it well, it is more than double than the entire opposition. So, for the sake of reference, this would be worth listening to. [[A statement from the opposition.]] Yeah, because it's two-thirds a third. And, well, a lot of things could have been responded to by my fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, on social matters, but I cannot do this because of the lack of time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-105	Thank you. I now give the floor to Péter Ungár for a two-minute comment.
u2018-10-03-106	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that it is deeply moving, what is being said by the pro-government representatives about their commitment to Hungarian eco-politics. If you're really worried about what's going on in "Maybe Other In Politics," I can give you a helper's statement at any time, and we can talk about it on the inside. What you said, I don't know if you have a problem with text understanding or slipping, but you're saying you didn't ask people. Well, as far as you're concerned, people are asked about it. But let's just say, why can't there be a national consultation about raising the home care fee from 53,000 to the minimum wage level? 'Cause I think we should consult on that, too. [[Mihály Witzmann: In progress.]] Is that in progress? Well, I'm sorry, in 2004, Gabriella Selmeczi submitted a proposal that would have raised home care, what do you have to negotiate on this? So take it. Gabriella Selmeczi, instead they're stalling. You always consult on the topics that Árpád Habony makes up on the field table. There is option (a), (b), (c). In this option a) that I agree with, option b) that I very much agree with, and option c) that the question is perfect. So let's forget about these. The other thing I'd react lightly to is how long you're looking at and how long you've been on the government. I wanted to say that by the third two-thirds of you are not authorized to teach everyone what it is like to live as a good Hungarian and how good people and what to do in life; and, for example, what right you have to tell someone who raises children in a partnership, that it is less valuable than those who raise children in marriage. What right do you have to tell someone that you have to raise those children in marriage? That's the aufklerist attitude they learned from their mother party, the Free Democratic Alliance. You think you know everything, you can tell everyone everything, but unfortunately, the Hungarian people don't think so.
u2018-10-03-107	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2018-10-03-108	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Ungár, we have received two thirds to protect Hungary. You too have received the few votes to defend Hungary. That's what we do, that's not what you do. That's the difference. You will say in your speech that we are not the only ones who reject the quota, but your MEP has voted in favour of the quota, yet you have said that quota is a good thing. You said in your speech that Hungary does not need to be protected, there is no need to care, because thanks to Hungary, you are fine. He is well because over the past eight years, we have put the economy in order, we have pulled this country back from the brink of bankruptcy, where the socialists and their now democratic coalition principle friends are sitting. We pulled him back from the brink of bankruptcy, from the edge of the abyss, and set him on a growth path. That's why this country is fine. [[Péter Ungár, pointing to Gergely Arató: Tell him, tell him!]] Not because you would have actively helped us in this matter. [[Péter Ungár: We started the cycle together.]] And what's so spicy is that there's obviously going to be another article in your media empire tomorrow, that there's no shame in agreeing with Peter Ungár. [[Péter Ungár: instant.hu! Say the royalty, please.]] There's no shame in agreeing with Peter Ungár. It is easy to have such articles written about himself in his own newspaper that there is no shame in agreeing with Peter Ungár. [[Péter Ungár: No shame!]] The Jobbikra: I am sorry that Mr Apáti has gone out, because he has said his speech and left, it is difficult to react this way, and you are often throwing it at our eyes, and now you cannot respond to either Bernadett Szél, Tibor Szanyi or Mr Abáti, but he said that he will always be much more opposed to illegal migration than we are. Well, then, why didn't you represent this within your party when Gábor Vona, your boss, said that the quota could be a good solution when you said that a few thousand people could come easily when you said that you could build a mosque? Then why didn't he represent this in your party? Once again, Tibor Bana, your Vice-President, who has been elected by you, said that you have a problem with the content of the parliamentary report on national sovereignty. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't take any more of what you've taken.]] That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: If you don't have one, that's the problem! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-109	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-110	Thank you very much. Well, I have my doubts whether it is a shame to agree with Peter Ungár or not, but this is not the subject of this debate. On the other hand, the subject of this debate is that, if I understand correctly, you believe that Hungary has been attacked, that the country is in danger, and that is why a parliamentary decision is urgently needed. Because in this one context, there is a point to the otherwise rather infertile number war that colleagues here would like to continue to see how many people are sitting on which side. Because if Hungary was really attacked here, how is it that your fellow Members are not in a hurry to defend the country? How is it that the Prime Minister hasn't set foot in Parliament, the Deputy Prime Minister hasn't set foot in Parliament, even more serious members of government have not set foot in Parliament? Poor Secretary of State sits here all day. Szilárd Németh was here, that's true, he did a lot to protect the country, I think he was afraid of any attacking force. [[17.50]] But I would like to say that if we were serious, if you were serious about what you were talking about, if you were serious about Hungary being attacked here, that there is a danger that anyone here would want to take anything away from anyone, then you would sit here and participate in this debate with your fellow Members and their leaders. The fact that they're not here clearly shows that it's just a rather empty act. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're not here. You're alone.]] Congressman, we say it's an act from the beginning. I'm good enough for that. [[Defiance.]] But if you think there's serious danger here, where are you, according to the people who think this debate is about this? ! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-03-111	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-112	Mr President, Dear House, He tells us all about the chaotic conditions within Fidesen, that Lőrinc Nacsa speaks with a very large breast, reacts to others, asks them that they are not here, and then leaves the room. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. László Böröcz: KDNP!]] I'd respond to that right now, but they're freaked out, ladies and gentlemen. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I have to tell you that if the quota issue comes up... [[Dr. Károly Kontra: 8 April!]] You can refer to April for a long time, but if there's a quota issue, you'll have to knock at your prime minister first. [[To the intervention of László Böröcz:]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I must tell you that if the quota issue arises... (Dr. Károly Kontra: 8 April!) You can refer to April for a long time, but if there's a quota issue, you'll have to knock at your prime minister first. (László Böröcz's intervention:) Get up! If you yell, stand up, be a man, be brave, push the button. Don't make faces (Fighting in the ranks of the opposition. ), press the button and tell me what Viktor Orbán told you when he asked why he requested a world quota in the UN in 2015. Explain to me the need for a world quota institution. If you can do it, there can be a meaningful debate. Without it, I'm just giving and receiving. But while you're talking about a growth path here, how wonderful everything is in Hungary, because that's what was said here a few minutes ago. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The opposition said that things are going well.]] It is worth adding that the Hungarian population is subject to 27 percent VAT, which is a world record. As far as EU funds are concerned, it is not only calculated that every euro or forint belonging to a second or third source of EU funds will go into friendly pockets through corruption mechanisms, but we must also say here that, while the total Hungarian population of the Carpathian Basin has decreased by 700 thousand during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, until then, my fellow Member, Nacsa, I tell you that the total number of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin has decreased by one million since 2010. Pretending this as a golden age is historical irresponsible. Let us not be comforted by the fact that more people are leaving the surrounding countries, because that would only mean that one patient's leg is amputated and the other one dies on short notice. None of them make us happy. Find a solution, find common solutions [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But not in your style and not in your attitude.
u2018-10-03-113	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-114	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'm trying to get back to the subject that's on our agenda today. I am really sorry that Congresswoman Bernadett Szél is no longer in this room, because then I could also say that although she may have gone to the border to visit the immigrants and migrants arriving here, I went to the Eastern Railway Station when they traveled across the country. [[Uproar, interrogations from the opposition benches, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: You let them in.]] You have to add, I was at the border, by the way, you can follow it. At night on Nefelejcs Street, people were afraid to go out when thousands of migrants were staying at Keleti Railway Station. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who allowed them to stay here? Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] The only reason I'm telling you this is as an introduction, when we're repeatedly called into account... [[It's constant noise.]] I'm trying to tell you even though you're trying to distract me. Despite the fact that they always claim on the other side of the opposition that we don't know life, I see it exactly the opposite way, I think you don't know what the problem is in the world, what the problem is in this country, what needs to be resolved. It is just those of you who, like my colleague, Péter Ungár, who faithfully follows the traditions of SZDSZ and does not want to participate in the competition, in the political competition, but rather wants to be a member of the jury to judge and classify the contestants. [[Péter Ungár's intervention:]] Yeah, yeah, you can quote that. We'll get back to the agenda then. It is likely that everyone in this country, in this House, is aware that we have been entrusted by voters to see what is happening in the world, apart from being a representative, but also to see clearly. Why do we need to be clear? Because anyone who knows the history of diplomacy, the history of international relations, is well aware that in the rarest case, a power would announce a power effort, a diplomatic intention in advance, so that we would do so. This is the same in the EU, no different, and the history of diplomacy has not changed in this respect. What the Union should be, the power, the ability of each Member State to do, is neither pre-divided nor publicly announced. Why is that important? It is important to know this because the Sargentini report is in line with this. Such a report, which has been repeatedly criticised not only from a government side, can be written about any EU country. If someone pulls themselves together, takes into account the individual reports, the various institutions, the difference between the different legal systems, then I can write such a report on anyone at any time. I'd be happy to make a bet with anyone in this one, by the way. Why is that important? Because this report also serves the power tool, it serves a political purpose. It has also been said today that if this report wanted to reach a depth of legal science, the editors and academic editors of the newspaper for publication would not read it after the first sentence. This begins with the fact that it can be read from this report that it has examined nothing but the legal system in question. It does not examine its outlook, European comparisons, the practices of other countries linked to so-called European values. He's looking at it on his own. And while I am in this place and allow me to approach my previously chosen profession a little bit, an old Roman law principle, we all know that if there is a law degree, if there is no law degree: in order to report on someone, at least two conditions must be met beyond professionalism. One: audioatur et altera pars, listen to the other. Another principle is impartiality. We know exactly about Mrs Sargentini Judith that she took a stand against Hungary in the period before the report was written. So it cannot be said that it is an independent reporting person. Why is that important? Because it's a principle. As we expected independence from the protégér in Roman law, we expect everyone to do so if they want to establish a position on a case, then someone who does not have a pre-emptive prose or a versus stand against that country. If I were to give a professional example: if we set up a committee in Parliament or elsewhere, the only task of which would be to examine whether the MSZP was legally established at the time and legally acquired the assets of the MSZMP, then I would not, for example... [[To intervene:]] I can't help it if they're not here. Then I wouldn't happen to be involved in this report or committee, because I have a strong opinion on it. Back to the Sargentini report, if we go further, why is it important to examine legal compliance? Because, in the Sargentini report, if someone reads it carefully, it is as if the important principle and the important rule that Hungary consistently adheres to and consistently follows, that so-called national legislation must comply with EU directives, must comply with EU principles. No one has ever contested that in this report, i.e. the Sargentini report, certain rules are in conflict with EU directives. Why is that important? That's because there's an appeal system for that. There is an appropriate procedural framework to remedy this if someone objects. But that's not what this is about. These laws appear to be in line with, and in reality, the EU directives in the report, but yet someone states that they are, in spite of all this, in breach of the rule of law or in breach of the rule of law. It has already been said here today, and our fellow Member Lajos Kósa has already mentioned this fact, and I would also like to return to the work of Andrei Januarevich Visinsky. If someone took out the lawsuits and indictments of the 13th of 1936, this Zinovjev-Kamenyev case, if they were to say anything else, read these, and exchanged a few words from the indictment, for example, to replace the fact that the socialist statehood, or to replace the common values, or to replace the fact that it is a socialist democracy, to say that it is a liberal democracy, then, in fact, in the Sargentini report, we could replace some of the papers by changing some of the names, and none of you would notice that it is a document from 1936. [[18.00]] Why is this important, and why did our fellow Member Lajos Kósa say this Vishinsky principle? Because Vishinsky was in the history of law the person who introduced two innovations, so to speak, with quotation marks: one is that the most important evidence is confession, and the other is that law, especially criminal law, is the instrument of class struggle. We now see that the Sargentini report is actually a tool for stigmatizing a country and, as a first step, it sees the most serious weapon, the application of Article 7. In some respects, someone here today at the meeting has neglected this report, although, as we have seen, there were great fires of joy when this report was adopted, and the application of Article 7 has actually been foreseen. Until then, much water will flow down the Danube, and obviously the Hungarian government will do everything possible against this report. I would like to add, and perhaps this is the most important thing, once again referring back to the work of the Stalin-Visinsky pair, that it is much easier to fight a debate if the opponent is destroyed, then there is no need to conduct a debate, no need to conduct a debate on the rule of law, no need to discuss how, for example, the European Commission withdraws powers from Parliament or how, in a gradual, latent way, not publicly, powers from individual Member States are being shifted. No one has decided what to do with the European Union. What should the European Union be like? United European States or not? What would it look like if this community had a real constitution, not just a charter? So these debates do not need to be conducted, but we can use this strong word slylyly, latently slips decision-making and power centers somewhere else than we thought when we joined the European Union. That is why it is important for those in this House to see clearly what is happening in Europe, what is happening in the world. A few words about what really is, I think, behind the Sargentini report. The Prime Minister of Hungary said first that there is a withdrawal of powers, and the European Commission is not a guardian of the decisions that have been made in the European Parliament, but has actually become a legislative and political body. He was one of the first to say that he was the first to say that immigration is a threat to this region. Everyone knows the numbers: 477 million people lived in Africa in 1980, 1 billion 700 million now, and 2.5 billion people will live in Africa by 2050. I do not think it is likely, quite frankly, that Africa's social set-up, political relations, production structure or development would rise to such a degree [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The kids will figure it out, not us. Gergely Harvesto: Then the fence...]] That these 2.5 billion people will certainly be able to provide a healthy society and food to everyone. Why is that important? Because no matter how much Europe accepts of immigrants, the problem will not be solved, today it will result in one million, tomorrow two million deficits or surplus somewhere, and it also means that we will not solve any problems with the mass inclusion of immigrants. This is also important, and it may also have to be said in this House, just as Ferenc Gyurcsány made this statement that it is necessary to distinguish between those whose house was bombed in Aleppo and those who are truly economic immigrants. On the one hand, if I remember wrong, more people died in so-called local wars after World War II than in the whole of World War II. Unfortunately, it does not look like the Middle East, but neither does our immediate environment here, that there would be a war-free period, and, consequently, what Ferenc Gyurcsány said to focus only on the refugees of war will result in a number that Europe cannot bear. It is an additional question, but it is a very important question of international law and diplomacy, why Europe must solve the problem in this world that is affecting the whole world. There are other major powers here, other regions, is that not a problem for them? Why is this burden on Europe's neck and shoulders? Why should we be the only ones to think about this problem, and why should others not? I would add that Hungary is not a party to these wars, not a cause, not an instigator, nor are we transporting weapons to them, to the best of my knowledge, unlike countries who like to teach us democracy. Finally, I will try to make this brief: this has been said today, and I would like to quote from our Constitution, the introductory part of our Fundamental Law, a sentence from our creed for all our honourable fellow Members. This is what it says, and I will try to say it literally:. We believe that the protection of our identity, which is rooted in our historical constitution, is a fundamental duty of the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes. Gergely Harvestó: You've written this in since then!]] This means that whoever has sworn to this constitution is obliged to keep our identity, that is what we are trying to do. Apparently, those who minimize, minimize or support immigration are actually serving to ensure that everything we have achieved in this country, in this culture, in a thousand years, is eliminated, destroyed and replaced. What I could tell you, perhaps as a short story, if you'll allow me, is that I may still have a minute and a half before they take the trouble themselves, and after their well-spent dinner in Brussels, I am very rarely in Brussels to observe that it is turning into a city in North Africa. It is easy to say that current European bureaucrats refuse Bach, Schumann, Schubert [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why don't you quit?]] They refuse Gauss, Einstein, and others, instead they choose the tambourine. I choose Bach even when the tambourines are playing at night. Allow me to remain this conservative. Finally, a final sentence on Hungary and the rule of law. I am sorry that Ferenc Gyurcsány is not in the room, although he is relatively few here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We are not sorry here! Z. Carpathian Daniel: We will survive!]] he hasn't allowed it in a little while, but I wanted to tell him that for this one question. So the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány can enter this building proves the infinite tolerance of the Hungarian people, the almost often excessive tolerance, the good faith and goodwill of the Hungarian rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, because he...]]
u2018-10-03-115	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2018-10-03-116	Thank you very much. I would like to hold an earlier debate on the fact that I have the immediate newspaper.hu and some country newspapers that are in my possession. Do you know the difference between the media I own and the media that you own? Mine's in my asset statement, and everyone knows that it's mine, you know what kind of money it is, and I made that money by inheritance. The Origo, who owns the rest? And the people who own it, how did they get this? But never mind, that's not really what I'm referring to. I would also like to refer to the SZDSZ, which we started with Mr Bajkai. Please confirm that there will be a statement made by the Hungarian government and Fidesz, who has been on the government for two-thirds of nine years, will not be a victim. So there will be a statement in which you are not eternally oppressed victims of this world conspiracy for the ninth year? So, at some point, you're not gonna be right because what you're saying is true, and not because you're being suppressed by a great international conspiracy that has the European People's Party, and it looks like Tibor Navracsics? So when will you not be the oppressed at last? When you take responsibility for governing this country for the ninth year, and not the eternal opposition of the world, like the teenager in his room, who listens to music loudly, no one understands it, but does he himself know the truth? I think it's important. In addition, he said that these people in the People's Party denied Schumann and denied everyone. If there are people of such terrible quality in the People's Party, why don't they quit? Why are they giving the Vice-President of the People's Party, the Vice-President of the People's Party, why are they in the youth part? Why are they members of a family of parties that you have such a terrible opinion of? Why? Step out, go to one of the others, where you think your opinion will be a majority. Thank you very much. [[18.10]]
u2018-10-03-117	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-118	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman Bajkai, I think that perhaps one of the most important differences between a part of the opposition and the government side is what you said at the beginning. You were talking about how foreign powers are used to scheming in diplomatic ways, and, well, that's how the European Union acts. Honourable Congressman, We have been a member of the European Union since 2004, Hungarian Members have been sitting in the European Parliament, the EU Commissioner proposed by your government is sitting in the European Commission, you as representatives of the government are sitting in the European Council. These are the three most important organisations in the European Union. The European Union is part of Hungary, we are part of this community. You see the European Community as an enemy, as an alien power, which I understand, but what I don't understand is why you are offended if someone says so. It seems to me that Congressman, obviously on account of his professional history, he's mixing things up. The procedure provided for in Article 7 of the EU Treaty is not a criminal procedure, not a infringement procedure; it is a procedure specifically established for the purpose of examining the whole relationship with the Union's baseline values. And the whole picture is what's disappointing. When you ask for independence, from the benches of the government from which a Fidesz representative could be the President of the State Audit Office and the Attorney General of an ex-fidesz candidate, I think this is very strange. And I'm asking you not to come to me with the conceptual lawsuits, when your fellow Member and Secretary of State here last Monday, in an ongoing criminal case, has already declared a verdict, a statement of what will happen here, of who will be compensated and who will be guilty. As for Ferenc Gyurcsány, you did everything you could to put him in jail, but you failed to intimidate witnesses and get him to perjury. But it wasn't up to you.
u2018-10-03-119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-120	Thank you very much. I see that our fellow Member Gergely Arató has such an automatic reflex: when it is said that Ferenc Gyurcsány, he immediately rises to speak to protect Ferenc Gyurcsány. But the thing is, Congressman, yes, we do not accept everything as it is now in the Union, because we believe that everything in the Union is not well as it is. [[Gergely Harvester: I don't think he's well. It's worth talking about.]] That is why we are making an enormous effort to change these things, to conduct these debates, so that if we have enough will after May, we can reach together for basic treaties and basic operations and create a Union that protects its borders, which protects its citizens and which can keep its citizens safe. Because we want such a Union, where otherwise there is no second-class citizen or prime citizen, but we can act together for a safe and growing Union. We think that's the goal. Congressman Ungár still did not answer the questions about how you and your group leader would speak here, and he said that the 2011 declaration was long ago from Hungarians across the border, why 16 times in the last three years your current MEPs voted in favour of proposals on quotas, why they voted in favour of proposals on the introduction of legal migration routes, why they voted in favour of migration organisations in the European Parliament. This is happening now, this is a recent statement, these are recent quotes, these things are happening now. You still haven't answered these questions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-121	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-122	Mr President, Dear House, There is a great temptation when the representative of Fidesz-KDNP talks about the media empire and its wild game. Especially in the light of media segments where, under your manual control, 85 percent is the share of public advertising revenue, given the total revenue. Let's just say I'm thinking about your home newspaper in this case, and the media empire that lost over 130 press cases against Jobbik. In Hungarian press history, they cannot show such a series of failures, ever, anywhere, nobody. They're gonna teach you all this on Katedras. At the same time, I am interested in what my fellow Member Nacsa asked me, and I would also be interested to know why many Members in the European Parliament do not necessarily vote in accordance with the interests of their country. For this reason, I would also be interested in the answer to the question raised by you by others, as well as how the Fidesz MEPs could practically vote for the resettlement programmes and the promotion of the effective integration of third-country nationals for which very serious funds have been allocated through the European Parliament. And I must also say to you that, in the 2019 budget, with an amount deemed appropriate for the asylum, migration and integration fund, this money will certainly be a good way to support not only the dignified inclusion of the asylum seekers in the Member States, but also the resettlement and family reunification programmes themselves, my fellow Member, because this was also the issue. You have supported this in the European Parliament by voting in favour of the relevant budget. I need you to explain that, too. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-123	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor in the general debate on the agenda on the defence of Hungary's sovereignty and the refusal of slander against Hungary, because I believe that we are all witnessing an extremely shameful process, as regards the content of the Sargentini report and, contrary to the Lisbon Treaty, the decision of the European Parliament to ignore the votes remaining, it is safe to say that this is the blackmail of Hungary and a kind of petty revenge of pro-immigration politicians against Hungary, Hungary. It is absolutely absurd and unacceptable that Brussels itself, which considers itself a voluntary anointed guardian of democracy, tries to force its will on a sovereign country based on the clear lie that democratic principles would be violated in Hungary. By adopting a report that cannot be called objective and objective, they are trying to blackmail us so that they can take away the right to border surveillance from our country. The next battle will certainly be about who protects Hungary's borders and who decides who can enter the country. But let's see, what's really going on here? Hungary's Government and the Hungarian Prime Minister said in Europe for the first time, even after the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack in Paris in 2015, that migration is a serious threat, and this process must be stopped. The Government of Hungary has clearly recognised the dangers and harmful consequences of illegal migration, which, unfortunately, are proved daily by foreign examples. In this regard, the Hungarian people also made clear their views that they wanted Hungary to remain a Hungarian country. For this reason, the Hungarian government has consistently maintained the principle that the vast majority of Hungarian society supports, and not only supports, but also demands. However, Brussels and the pro-immigration politicians do not like it, and it is unacceptable, and if they could not get their serving people to power in the Hungarian elections, then they are now attacking Hungary at European level. This is because they do not want to close, but, on the contrary, to open borders for migration, because they want to take border protection away from Member States in order to allow more immigrants into our continent. This is what the European Commission's latest proposal is about, and this is what the Commissioner for Migration in Brussels said in the UN, which is what the UN's Global Migration Package, supported by Brussels, is about, and this is what the pro-immigration proposals before the European Parliament are about, the statements of the Soros network are about. It can't be a coincidence. Well, why is Hungary so important? Many of us may ask the question. On the one hand, because Brussels, I think, is right to fear that a swallow is able to make a summer, and Hungary's adamant position can give strength and courage to other countries and their leaders to stand up for their countries, as we can otherwise see in more and more countries across Europe. It is also important to point out that Hungary lies in the heart of Europe, in an area of great importance for its geographical location, so that we literally stand in the way of migration, because there are many who do not take kindly to Hungary's fence protection of its borders and thus also of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Sargentini report is nothing more than a pro-immigration indictment against Hungary, which is clearly backed by a kind of lobby. And the report is full of classified lies. [[18.20]] The author of the report, Judith Sargentini, is a man of Soros, which he himself does not deny. It is also important to note that the lying allegations were explicitly refuted by the experts of the Hungarian government in a 108-page document. I believe that Hungary cannot ignore either the false accusations or the vote of the European Parliament which ignores the legislation, and that the Government must raise its voice against the proceedings against our country with every possible legal and political action. It is absurd that the European Parliament condemns a country on the basis of the rule of law problems, which does not take into account its own rule of law. It is more than a shame that the Hungarian opposition is constantly assisting the Sargentini report. This also shows that opposition politicians still cannot accept the decision of the Hungarian people and continue to support Brussels and the pro-immigration politicians abroad, and unfortunately, they are also represented here at home. At the same time, this kind of behaviour was already priced, if I may say so, by voters in the parliamentary elections, because the Hungarian people said a strong and understandable no to illegal and mass immigration, and also to the opposition on 8 April 2018. Finally, allow me to give you an example of my own, ladies and gentlemen. During the pre-election period, I held a lot of public forums and various street meetings, street forums in all 71 settlements of the Somogy 4 constituency, which I represent. At these meetings, I reported regularly, among other things, in the country, and especially in the Somogy 4th district, we discussed developments in our region and daily news. However, there was always one thing in common in the held forums, regardless of whether we had a forum in Siófok, Zamárdi, Balatonföldvár, Igal or even Tabon, on the shore of Lake Balaton or even further away, in villages or cities, people were most interested in one thing, their security and migration. In these discussions, there has never been a single opinion in our area, at home in Somogy, about the need to support illegal migration, mass immigration, nor that fences protecting our borders should be dismantled. On the basis of this experience, I respectfully ask my fellow opposition members to hear, understand, and, more importantly, to take to heart the request of the Hungarian people and, after the debate on the presentation before us, finally to form a real national unity, to support with their votes the adoption of a proposal for a resolution on the defence of Hungary's sovereignty and the rejection of slanders against Hungary. I believe that on behalf of the members of the Fidesz and KDNP Group, I can say that we will be here, and I hope that the opposition representatives will do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-125	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We started this debate almost eight hours ago on this major parliamentary decision. There's been a lot going on in these eight hours. I am sorry to hear that, and I am sorry to hear that many things have been said that have nothing to do with this proposal for a resolution supported by Fidesz and KDNP. The opposition representatives have mainly brought up things in such a way that this parliamentary resolution does not correspond to reality and is not about it. I would therefore like to explain now what is really the point of this parliamentary resolution. This parliamentary decision stands up for Hungary, stands up for the Hungarian people, stands up for our national culture. This parliamentary resolution stands up for the future of Christian Europe and the Hungarian nation in it. Ladies and gentlemen, We're living in historical times. We know well that in such a crucial time, there are always political forces that cannot or do not want to recognize the right path, which cannot or do not want to see reality, which cannot or do not want to follow the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, Those who cannot recognize and serve the interests of the Hungarian people are narrow-minded. Those who don't want to know the truth and the right way, and those who don't want to tell the truth, they're traitors. One is worse and more dangerous than the other. In today's debate it has also been proven that the opposition is completely inadequate to protect Hungarian people and Christian Europe. They are willing to sell the future of Hungarian people for a bowl of lentils, and the future of Europe as a whole and the security of Europe as a whole. Fortunately, the majority of Hungarian and European people are already seeing this exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, We've come to a turn of fate. Fate threw Soros at us this time, whose global games we Hungarians exposed. And now we're being avenged by your pro-immigration friends. They've been chasing witches. One element of this is the Sargentini report, which we are now protesting against in this parliamentary resolution. The Sargentini report is a pro-immigration indictment, an air castle built from untruths. Yes, but we know that it's very easy to see through the air castles, and sooner or later, the air castles will collapse on their own. Well, that's to be expected in this case, no later than spring 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, How long are we going to let Brussels push its pro-immigration policy fully? Most recently, they want to take away the rights of border protection from the Member States. They want to take away from the Member States the right to conduct asylum procedures. They want to legalise economic immigration towards Europe. They want to create organised migration routes. They want to eliminate the criminalisation of illegal border crossings and illegal migration organisation. Once again, the mandatory and automatic distribution of migrants is called for. They want to make it easier for economic immigrants to work and to reunite easily and quickly. They also want to give more money and more influence to Soros organisations that sponsor immigration. This is what the European Commission's latest proposal is about. This is what the Commissioner for Migration in Brussels said in the United Nations. This is what the UN Global Migration Package, supported by Brussels, is all about. This is what the pro-immigration proposals before the European Parliament are about. And that's what the Soros network statements are all about, one by one. This is what Angela Merkel said, who said that states at the external borders of the Union should give up part of their national sovereignty to the benefit of Frontex. This would also, in his view, be accompanied by the possibility of organised migration. The Commission's recent proposal again calls for a permanent resettlement programme and the establishment of organised migration routes. Ensuring organised migration is part of the Soros plan. György Soros talked about the need to create safe routes for migrants in 2015. This confirms that Brussels wants to take away the right of border surveillance from Member States, including Hungary, because it does not want to stop it, but to facilitate and organise migration. This goes against the will of the Hungarian people and the interests of the Hungarian people, so we will not let that happen. We will do everything we can to protect Hungary from these dangerous plans. Hungary, as it has done so far, continues to defend its borders, because this, and only this, can guarantee Hungary's safety. Our own border guarding rights and even our Schengen obligations. [[18.30]] Instead of the Hungarian border guards and soldiers who took an oath and whose country is important, they want to send mercenaries from Brussels, who will let migrants in. No doubt about it. The Hungarian border can only be protected by Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian police under oath to the Hungarian constitution. Soldiers and cops who love their country. People who are willing to protect it, in accordance with their oath. Brussels is not talking about border protection, my fellow Members, but about border management. They are working to facilitate immigration and organise immigration. I ask how Frontex's mercenaries could defend the Hungarian border. With what heart, with what soul, with what deeds and with what success? We can't leave this to chance. Ladies and gentlemen, The Sargentini report and the whole procedure prove that Brussels' current leadership is still pro-immigration. The pro-immigration elite in Brussels and, unfortunately, the Hungarian opposition are also completely separated from European people and reality. Decisions are taken above the heads of people to install Europe with migrants, thereby endangering the safety of European people, the calmness of European people, the peace, security and culture of Europe as a whole. However, more and more electoral results and polls show that the people of Europe are fed up with this. Not only for the Hungarian people, but also for the European people. The European Parliament, which adopted the Sargentini report, should simply be seen as a run-off, fashionable, old-fashioned collection. Because there's a new election next May. Today's EP has a clear majority of immigration, a pro-immigration majority, which considers its historic mission in these historical times to change the composition of Europe. To change its population, religion, culture, to rip away Europe's future from its roots. These politicians hate people who are opposed to this plan and who are trying to organize resistance. Those who still want a majority of the anti-immigration EP after May are attacking Hungary as a symbol of resistance to illegal migration. We need a new EP, a new European Commission, which protects Europe, which protects European people, including Hungarian people. What the Jean-Claude Juncker Committee has done in recent years has caused the European Union a terrible amount of damage. This was the Commission that caused the migration crisis and caused the threat of terrorism to rise to an unprecedented level of severity on this continent. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the debate between Hungary and the European Parliament is, in fact, only about immigration. This issue will be decided by the European electorate in May 2019, not ourselves. We say, and we have also sworn to do so, that we will fight until that last moment, so that a new European Parliament is established and a new Commission is established that is committed to halting immigration and protecting borders. We are also fighting for this, which has also been said several times in the debate, and interestingly, my opposition colleagues were very excited about the relationship between Fidesz, KDNP and the European People's Party. Well, my fellow Members, we are also working, we are also fighting to get the People's Party back on the Christian Democratic road. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]] As regards the preservation of European identity... This Christian Democratic road is probably very amusing in the benches of Jobbik, and at some point I would like to know what is so amusing about a Christian Democratic tradition and identity preservation. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Nothing in that.]] That's what we're fighting for as long as we can. The Hungarian electorate will also play a major role in this, i.e. the majority of the EP and Commission that will be created in May 2019, which will be pro-immigration or Europe's traditions, religion and culture. The Hungarian electorate will play a major role in this, not only for us, but also for Hungarian voters. We therefore ask the Hungarian people to confirm their decision in May 2019, because Hungary has already proven that immigration can be stopped and borders can be protected. We also have faith in the benches of Fidesz and KDNP. And the one who will vote in favour of this parliamentary resolution in the final vote. I ask all my fellow Members who are here in this Chamber and those who are not here in this Chamber; those who have now spent their time laughing, especially in the benches of Jobbik. [[Gergely Harvesto: And what?]] to think about it, to sleep on it, and then, if you really want to serve the Hungarian people, strengthen your faith in the Hungarian nation with a big vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-127	Thank you, Congresswoman. There are already two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2018-10-03-128	Thank you for the floor. Congresswoman! It was also difficult to take your speech seriously because you started by saying that anyone who disagrees with you is a traitor. That's what he said. He betrayed his political opponents. He said they were either narrow-minded or traitors. That was his sentence. Now, the thing is, since I have two minutes, there's one more quote from the Madl that I forgot to tell you the last time, so I'm gonna do it now. The citizen adheres to the rules, honest, law and law-abiding, Democrat, he doesn't know the repressive pride or servile humility, he stands in the middle of the economy, society, politics, and in these he expects taste and morals to be carried out.It's a taste and morality that you acknowledge that I can't agree with you, and that doesn't mean I'm a traitor. This is one of taste and morality and civil values. Don't betray me here for eight hours, it won't solve anything. This doesn't make the Hungarian nation united, it doesn't make it any better for anyone. The fact that you think those who disagree with you are more morally inferior is contrary to the values of civil democracy. I know that the boss of one of your persistent media has already told you that this was just a political product for you. But the thing is, for those of us who are serious about this, what it meant, we think there's no such thing as not being able to be in opposition to the country, there's no such thing as taking the whole nation for ourselves, and there's no such thing as saying that anyone who disagrees with it is a traitor. This is not in the interest of the debate, it is not in the national interest, I do not know what it is for, but I would ask you, Congresswoman, to stop. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-129	Thank you. Now I'm giving the floor to Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-130	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is, in contrast to what you say, there is no need for stronger evidence of how you stand in democracy and the rule of law than the beginning of your contribution. If someone says that anyone who disagrees with you, if you think otherwise of something else, is a traitor, they have no idea of democracy. I have a very bad opinion about you, frankly, and about the majority of governments, but I do not think that you are traitors because you believe that it is in the interests of Hungarian citizens to lose their rights, to limit their freedom, to steal the country's wealth, and to deprive them of their social benefits. I take note that you think this is in the interests of Hungarian citizens, and I do not agree with it at all. On the other hand, the great hope that I am listening to here all day about the great elections to the European Parliament coming, and then the parties that are sympathetic to you will break through, and in general the European electors will well show that the future is only one topic, the parties dealing with immigration, which is just like you, that I must disappoint you. [[18.40]] The German Afd received 12,6 percent, compared with the liberals 10.7, the National Front in France 13.2, the Northern League, your best friend, 17.3, in the Swedish elections. That's what this extreme right is worth in Europe today. This is not the case in Hungary, of course, it is possible to win elections with extreme right-wing politics in Hungary, only to do so requires the kind of unilateral media, and the kind of electoral system, all the small, correct electoral frauds you have committed in recent years. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-03-131	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-10-03-132	Mr President, Dear House, This is a very sad debate, but fortunately, I saw that our fellow Member Mr Zoltán Demeter had returned for his bag, and I wish him good health as well. I think it's the most important moment of the day, so that he'll be okay and no harm to his health, so please give him our best wishes. This is far more important than any political conflict between us that we have. I was horrified by the speech made by the congresswoman because she quoted a dark and outdated era that I thought I could leave behind with my tens years old, and although I still claim that there was no change in the system in Hungary, I thought that the methods and sounds of the old ages would not haunt me at such a level; they are now very, very haunting me. For if you think it is a narrow-minded and/or traitor who does not share your opinion, then it will be very difficult to build a country. I would like to hear from you who you are not fighting, Congresswoman, who you look to as partners, who you would build a country with. After all, if he was to accompany Hungarian history, in the midst of battles and storms, it was typical that the eras of construction occurred when he had an alliance with whom to build, even within the country. Try it. Believe me, it will end in a successful era. But when they tell us the net lie that they fear that mercenaries will defend Hungary's borders, why have we been arguing here for eight hours? We have made it clear to you three times that it is not possible to place mercenaries here unless you force this very much further, because there is no legislative background to the form in which Frontex's intervention, assistance and participation can take at all. I have repeatedly told you that I am opposed to any transfer of sovereignty, so I do not wish anyone without Hungarian control to take credit, stand, operate in Hungary. But it's not made up. No one wants you to plant mercenaries here. If this happens, I'll be the first one to protest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But that vile lie, that mood you've had before you came up with a form of help, it's a very dark age, so I'm asking you to refrain from it any longer. Thank you.
u2018-10-03-133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, this debate has been going on for a long time, and you have mentioned it here too, and I must say that Mr Ujhelyi, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Ferenc Gyurcsány, or Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned the word "treasoner" many times in his speech, and in a context that is not treasonable. So you've betrayed more than we've done today. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] They said that the one who quoted these quotes and took quotes from our party family. So at least don't be hypocrites, fellow Members. I would say to Mr harvester that we did not say that this would happen from May; we said that this would be good for Europe. We believe that it would be good for Europe if the forces against immigration became the majority in the European Parliament, and parties like you, parties on the far left, were doing bad things for Europe at the moment. And we did not deny that we had an argument with the party's pro-immigration wing; we said that what we thought would be good for Europe would be for the parties against immigration to have a majority. We did not say that this would happen, but that we would work for this, which is why we will participate in the campaign, and that is why we will be involved in these debates. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-135	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-136	Thank you very much. I would very much like to send the written version of this speech to any of my opposition colleagues and to Peter Ungár. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] as soon as it appears in the report. I'm really sorry they took that sentence on themselves. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Who do we take it to?]] It will be worth studying, I was talking about certain historical times and the realization of whether the individual political forces can see that we are living in a historical era, a historic moment, and what is the right way. And I've outlined two ways: one who doesn't want to, and the other who doesn't recognize this situation in a narrow-minded way. Of the two roads, I am very sorry that many of the opposition's representatives took the traitor for granted and not the narrow-minded one. [[Deficit in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]] It is true that I spoke about the opposition afterwards and even whipped the opposition's attitude, and I will continue to maintain it, but I did not speak in this sentence. [[Péter Ungár: Thank you for the compliment!]] the conduct of the current opposition. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's a shame you're not speaking your own thoughts, and you're always texting in writing.]]
u2018-10-03-137	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're going back to our regular schedule. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Simon Róbert in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the European Parliament intends to put Hungary, which is struggling to ensure its sovereignty, on the bench of the accused, in a conceptual procedure. Again, I have just said, because the Tavares report, which was completed in 2013, is all about the revenge of the parties and their representatives supported by bankers and multinationals, which was triggered by the taxing of banks and the reduction of the rent. It was also clear from the Tavares report that they were completely unfounded and their sole purpose was political and economic gain. Five years have passed, and the balliberal machine hasn't changed a bit: find a desperate representative from the ranks of the extreme liberal green party, have him write the indictment. The work has been completed in its usual form: it is still a vendetta in the robe of concern for the rule of law. My fellow political groups have already said to me: the document was written with the sole intention of breaking Hungary's independent, sovereign immigration policy and our persistent attachment to the protection of our own borders. The credibility of the whole document is already undermined and its conceptual nature is demonstrated by the fact that among the organisations in the annex to the report, which are consulted on the situation in Hungary, there are only organisations with left-wing, liberal ideas, which have little or no social support; it is enough to mention the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, the Society for Freedom Rights, the Open Society Foundation, not all George Soros's generous support. The author of the report does not hesitate to falsely state the names of institutions with a long history and significance that have never given information or comments on the draft report. Both the University of Pécs and the ELTE were outraged about this and asked Congresswoman Sargentini to delete their names from the annex. Of course, he has not corrected the illegal act of the Member who fears the rule of law to this day. On the report, the crown is indicated as Ahmed H.'s sacrifice. The document states that the immigrant was convicted of helping his family cross the border, not to mention that he attacked the police with stones and was a central player in violence. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said earlier, a significant part of the issues in this report have already been protected by Hungary before the various international organisations and have been closed on the basis of mutual cooperation. The document also examines areas which are outside the competence of the European Union and should therefore not be the subject of the investigation. This is a gross violation of the fundamental values of national sovereignty by Mrs Sargentini. It is not enough that the report deals with issues that have already been closed and which do not concern EU competence, but all of them are accompanied by significant factual errors. The emblematic example of a flood of lies is that civil society organisations in Hungary are at risk, because according to the report, the new regulation represents a disproportionate and unnecessary interference with freedom of association and freedom of expression. [[18.50]] These are, of course, also made accusations, as the sole purpose of the new provisions is to ensure transparency of organisations, for which similar models are present in several Member States, and even the Union itself has a transparency register. Anyone who is ashamed or directly hiding from society where they receive support is likely to have something behind their ears. Now I have just highlighted a false and misleading statement from many, but it is outrageous that such a baseless and indecipherable concept material could have come to the European Parliament at all. In order to silence immigration and border protection policy in Hungary, the Balliberal side is capable of everything, if necessary, of violating its own rules laid down in the Treaty to achieve this goal. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary cannot give in to pressure. The citizens of Hungary, the referendum, the national consultation and the parliamentary elections on 8 April have clearly stated that they do not wish to become an immigrant country, so it is our duty to act as decisively as possible against the conceptual attacks aimed at breaking our policy of people's will, and I therefore ask you to support the adoption of the resolution proposal. Of course, that's what we Fidesz-KDNP representatives will do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-139	Thank you, Congressman. This brings to an end the list of speakers that have been announced, and now there are other speakers. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm so sorry we're so shorthanded. A half hour ago, our fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, challenged the number of opposition benches. I'm telling you that we still have a better ratio than Fidesz, and it's gotten worse since then. So I think that if a group of 133 people is one of these...; today, the word 'foul' has already been said for the Sargentini report, this proposal is not better either. I don't think so. So, to present one of these to the Hungarian Parliament, in its wording, in its style, in its unconceptuality, it is really like asking someone to write and read to put something together, because it will also be good for them in this House. He sits among you... [[A government representative sneezes.]] See? Sneezed on by my fellow Member, I'm right. So the point is, who in this Parliament would not want to preserve Hungary's sovereignty? Who in this Parliament would like to receive immigrants from the Hungarian population? Who in this Parliament is the one whose country is not the most important? There's no such thing! You can find out, explain to your fans and voters that there is such a thing in this House. There is no such thing in this House! And you know that, and the deceitful thing about your work is that you are trying to make the people of Hungary believe this lie. You are not the saviors of this country, do not by any chance believe that you are the saviors of this country. It cannot be the savior of the country, where EU funds come in for HUF 1000 billion, and it has not produced as much added value as the nominal value of the amount! There has been no increase in GDP or any wealth created through EU grants by 30 percent, such as nominal value itself. No one in the world does this bad business! Don't tell me you represent the interests of the country, and you want to save anyone other than those who have stolen incredible money in the last eight years. I am very sorry for Mr Gergely Gulyás and Minister for leaving very soon. I'm sorry because he was the author of this particular masterpiece. Then, when Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi, leader of the group, spoke, a number of people from the benches of Fidesz, when our group leader spoke about the fact that Mrs. Sargentini had made your bed for next year's EU election. I can only hope that you don't know and didn't mean to include net lies in such a report, and practically helped you in the country to campaign with the sexless and lying statements that are really in the report, from today until 27 May. At that time, you were thrilled, you were upset that our group leader dared to say that you should be practically grateful to Mrs Sargentini for doing this; the problem is that there is probably no communication in your benches. Because then I will tell you what the same Minister said on August 31, 2018, or 33 days ago. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Hungarian government may be grateful to Judith Sargentini and her report, as it makes it clear before the EP elections how European politicians and parties feel about uncoordinated and uncontrolled immigration. He says himself that the Hungarian government is grateful to Sargentini, and they will be outraged when our group leader tells you that? Come on, think about it. I hope that at some point you will look at my speech, Gergely Gulyás, and realize that this is a deceitful, lying and rude activity that you are doing in connection with this report. And you know what my biggest problem is? Let's talk about it, because when it was announced immediately after the EU vote that we will vote on this in Parliament and there will be a resolution, you know what I thought the first time? That they would reject the accusation of racism and reject the accusation of anti-Semitism. Because it's in this report. And I, against my fellow Member, Arató, think that there is no institutional racism or anti-Semitism in Hungary. So I thought that you would reject this and not bomb and terrorize the Hungarian population with the terrible psychological burden of immigration, as well as us metaphorically. Then why isn't it in there? Why isn't that in there? I want you to tell me, explain to someone on your benches, if anyone else isn't, a representative of the government present, he's the on-call juggler, when you have to answer an unexpected question as to why he doesn't have to dismiss the accusations of racism and anti-Semitism. Next. In April 2016, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán presented the request for the enlargement of Frontex to the EU Council in a ten-point summary, he indicated that we would be demanding the costs of border protection. In April 16th. Then, on 5 March 2018, Szabolcs Takács, Minister of State for EU Affairs of the Prime Minister's Office, said that they wanted the cost of border protection. In this context, the claim was also made with an amount of HUF 270 billion, half of which were claimed, in order to reimburse virtually EUR 450 million. Here's the thing. In this report, it is also mentioned in point 3 that corruption in Hungary has simply reached a level that is already unmanageable, and that EU funds are being taken away with a strong amount of overinvoicing and unjustified procurement. What will we read after this presentation since March? That no one can explain what this 270 billion is coming out of! Bence Tuzson talked about 3 billion in 2015, and at the end of 2015 it was 6.5 billion plus 3 billion, which was announced; then in 2016 it was announced that the cost of building the fence was 22 billion, and finally it was raised to HUF 84 billion. And out of that 84 billion, it just turned out to be 270 billion. Are we surprised that the EU said that it wouldn't pay half of this because they couldn't prove it? [[19.00]] On behalf of the Hungarian citizens, we ask that you, as a serious matter, such as border protection and this serious matter, which is a very important issue in the relationship between the EU and Hungary's border protection, have been derailed to the level of horse-cups! Technically, if this happens between two citizens in Hungary, i.e. one asks the other for money that he cannot prove is simply a fraud. The Hungarian government should not bring such shame on the heads of Hungarian people that it requires reimbursement of costs that it cannot prove! Indeed, the EU is important and has an obligation to contribute to the costs of border protection, because Hungary has protected Europe from a great many immigrants, but it is abusing it not to present on behalf of the Hungarian people costs they cannot prove. So the third point of this report, namely corruption, dishonest procedures in this system of relations, has also proved in the refugee issue that the Hungarian government is capable of such an indecent lie. So I would like to ask you when you will begin to prove to the world and to Hungarian citizens that you are not stealing, that there is no corruption and that the EU funds have been used fairly. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Prove your innocence!]] But I would also like to clarify this question from another point of view. The meeting of the EU Home Affairs Ministers will be held in July 2015. What is happening here is that the Hungarian Minister of Interior did not quite rightly vote for the quota set at that meeting, and then came home, and after two weeks the Hungarian government confirmed the willingness to accept around 900 people. So the Hungarian Minister of the Interior did not vote, but after this was a binding decision, we announced that we would welcome you around 900 people. It's happening at the beginning of August. Please, this is the reality I'm talking about. Then, in September, the Prime Minister will go to the Prime Minister's meeting on the same issue, and the resolution on the 1294 main quotas will be voted by our Prime Minister. So you vote for it. We've talked about this so many times, Mr. Secretary, you can shake your head and vote for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's embarrassing! Dr. Pál Völner: There are difficulties in understanding! Z. Kárpát, Dániel: No, it's just an embarrassing vote!]] Then by the time he got home on a plane, they'd figure out, "Wow, that's not good, 'cause what's gonna happen here, so how do they explain this in the country? In addition, they knew that they couldn't win another election by reducing the cost of electricity, because it has already been shown that the prices of energy sources have decreased by not 20 percent but by 60 percent. So you didn't cut rent, you stole rent from people, interrupting a company that made amazing money selling energy to public services at a significantly higher price than you got it from abroad. So they've already figured out that they're busted, so there's no way they're gonna agree to another election. There came a quota, we sued, we voted for it, but we do not accept it, but the Hungarian people, but immigration. You're using this whole immigration issue for your political survival, nothing but nothing else. When you say that a decision must be condemned, that conviction must therefore be examined. The first statement in this proposal: the Sargentini report violated Hungary's Fundamental Law and Decisions. Excuse me, there are a lot of lawyers still sitting in this room until we write down specifics, because that's a conclusion. The conclusion must be based on precise findings, from which it can be concluded that it violates the decisions of the Fundamental Law and Hungary. Why didn't you like to write in this proposal? Second, the EU Parliament's immigration supporters condemn Hungary because it protected its borders. I would like to ask someone to tell me where this second statement from 68 pages of the report is written, because we could not find it. Point three: the votes of the Members who abstained were ignored and were therefore accepted by fraud. My question: Since 2004, there has been a Fidesz Group in the EU Parliament for 14 years, so let us show you when you have protested against this procedure, because this is how you have been voting for 14 years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not it!]] So that would be very good, but let me make one modest remark as a Hungarian citizen. If there is any negative statement against Hungary, it is even terrible for me if 20-30 percent do so. This means that the Hungarian government is not working well. So we're not talking about 64 and 69 percent, we're talking about 0 and 64 or 69 percent. The Government of Hungary undertakes to represent its citizens both domestically and abroad in such a way that no negative arguments or accusations can be made against our country. The following is: the interests of certain business groups and speculant businessmen are unobstructed in the decision. Write down what sentence the businessmen and speculators wrote. Until they write this down, it can't be interpreted. Next: Hungarian people were branded. The Hungarian people were not branded in this resolution. One thing is certain: I am also sorry that in the last point, which is about what is the legal effect of this Decision, it is indeed inappropriate and we do not like it to be said that the Council recommends that Hungary should take its next measures within 3 months of notification of the decision. The use of words is not good, because the Government of Hungary should have been described in this sentence, but it is still 67 times written down what rules the Hungarian Government has otherwise violated. So not the Hungarian people, but the Hungarian government, unfortunately, has been branded in 10 points, in a well-founded manner. Point 6: It is used to protect the safety of Hungarian people. The safety of the Hungarian people is protected not by this resolution proposal, but by creating a decent army, police, border protection, social security, health security, and the safety of housing for Hungarian people. Until you give us this, you will not be able to protect the safety of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-141	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman András Aradski.
u2018-10-03-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, To tell you the truth, I came here with the intention that I didn't really want to comment on this, because I'm pushing the time away from negotiating the Industrial Rights Act, but there are so many interesting and exciting things that have been said from narrow-mindedness to treason, that it's worth fixing up a little bit, and I'm trying to do that. This comment also has an incentive to quote the sentence of our fellow Member, Dr. János Horváth, who said that the basis for political relations is the assumption of mutual good intentions about each other. So from this perspective, I think that the situation, reason and history of the Sargentini report will be highlighted, and from this point of view, I hope that you will be successful, and that you will adopt the parliamentary resolution on this report. It was said in this debate that the report itself examines Hungary's rule of law and condemns Hungary as a state that does not comply with European values and the European legal order. This is a concern from this point of view, and I have already experienced this kind of feeling, which I have quoted from Dr. János Horváth, whether it is possible to assume good intentions from the European Parliament when this report is adopted or whether it is possible to assume from the European Parliament the kind of professionalism that my fellow Member from Bajkai has spoken and, as a lawyer, has been critical of the content of the report. I believe that we cannot expect legal and professional questions about this report in this House and in the European Parliament. Both bodies are political bodies. It is the task of the Hungarian Parliament and of the Members who live here, I think it is quite clear: if Hungary is wrongly attacked politically, then we must respond to it and defend Hungary. [[19.10]] Why do I say that he was attacked politically by this decision of the European Parliament? It is a pity to open a debate, and then the court will decide whether the way this decision was taken was lawful, but on what grounds and for what purpose this attack took place. Everyone knows the EU's rules of procedure. If one of our laws falls within the scope of what is destined to be followed by European standards, i.e. during our accession to the European Union, it regulates the element of our sovereignty that we have renounced, the European Union will take these laws under review and, if this legislation is not appropriate, it will initiate infringement proceedings against the law. There are steps to be taken, and the end will be a court of law. In this respect, the report contained a number of objections which were largely closed or pending, or were not at all disputed by the European Commission over the past period in terms of legal conditions. In this, it is obviously necessary to look for why it is said, without the usual procedure, why a certain part of the Members of the European Parliament say that the rule of law is violated in Hungary, when the opportunity to remedy the damage to the rule of law is always at the disposal of the European Union, and Hungary has always been constructively involved in this in recent years. If we had to, we negotiated, if we had to, but if we thought we were right, then we went to the court, and the court decided in one way or another what we had done, so Hungary acted in an absolute way in this respect. This is another issue, and this is a very important element of the political struggle, as to who is holding a political debate on the future, fate, content, purpose, and the future of the European people, the direction it wants the European Union to take in the debate on the future of the European Union. It is possible to argue in this political debate that various opinions can be expressed, but let us say that no EU Member State can support the fact that certain bodies of the European Union are specifically referring to the Commission, starting a stealthy legislation, a stealthy withdrawal that cannot be found either in the basic Treaty or in the legislative and legal environment on the basis of which it is based, cannot be justified, and yet we are acting as if everything is okay. We believe, and I am speaking here as a pro-European MEP, that the rule of law applies not only to Hungary but also to the European Union, and when we think of certain legal errors and deviants on the part of the European Union, it is our Member State law and the government's duty to comment on them and to take action against them. So here we are beyond talking about legal, professional debates, then we have to look at why this political battle did happen. Because if we are looking at the rule of law, then I have already explained, there are methods for that, there is a system in place, why the European Commission did not act with it when it had the opportunity to do so. What is the reason why the European Parliament has launched a political struggle? In any case, the reason for this cannot be other than the Hungarian position on migration, the position that is otherwise correct. We protect the Schengen border, we do not allow illegal immigrants, we do not want people to enter the European Union, people who cannot justify themselves, who cannot be considered refugees, who are judged by their own behaviour and who do not prevent them. Therefore, in this respect, we have taken measures that we believe are protecting Europe from illegal immigration from the physical border closure and the legal border closure. Of course, it has been said several times here that how many, now no illegal immigrants are coming to Hungary. Not on our side, but on the difficult road to Bosnia, Croatia, Slovenia, there were the same masses during the summer. They do not come to us because they do not come in our direction because it is very difficult to get through because of the legal and physical border closure, they know that it is almost impossible to enter Hungary illegally. This goes against the demands, the expectations of certain political forces, behind them the intentions of financial financiers who are willing to lend, they themselves said, the overpopulation from illegal immigration, the integration of illegal immigrants into the European Union, which, of course, European Union citizens will pay from their taxes, and the Member States who will accept them. So what I see is that this kind of behaviour of Hungary, that it takes decisive action against illegal immigration, proposes better protection of the Schengen borders in Hungary, also states that the problem must be solved where it has been created, so that it will provide assistance to those in need in an exemplary and almost individual way, not to lose or to skim off the funds that we can provide to those in need of help from our taxpayers, not to let these funds be skimmed by the various, so-called international law defenders and all kinds of relief organisations, but directly through the churches, the leaders of the people who live there. I think, and I believe that this is a good intention, and this good intention confirms that Hungary is not a shut-in, but an open and helpful one. The other issue, and this is the important question, honourable Members, is whether we want to protect Europe against illegal immigration, whether we want to change culture, whether we want to change ethnicity, whether we want to replace Europe's people or not. We have decided that the Hungarian people have decided not to, and I have to ask you from this point on, János Horváth's sentence, that the assumption of mutual good intentions can be expected from each other. I believe and rightly believe that Hungary is being attacked on a political basis, as has been said above, for something in which Hungary is not only guilty, but protects Europe. Therefore, it is your moral duty to stand up to such an attack and to vote in favour of the assumption of good intentions, because, as I said, this is nothing more than the political attack on migration against our country in order to weaken the position of our country, in order to ensure that the kind of Europe we have thought of and to which we have joined, which the founding fathers could imagine, we can protect, maintain its values and to live with this Europe in order to ensure that the 21st century, which we have been able to achieve, is protected and that we are able to live with. We should also respond to the challenges of the 20th century, which, in my opinion, does not include the application of the legal club, blackmail, political coercion, but rather the negotiation, understanding of one another, tolerance, because, as our fellow Member János Horváth said, political relations are based on the assumption of mutual good intentions. We cannot assume this good will on the basis of the decision of the European Parliament about the European Parliament, so we have a duty to reject this Sargentini European Parliament resolution here in Parliament and defend Hungary's honour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-143	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-144	Fellow Members! I thank my colleague and colleague very much for this speech, because he quoted János Horváth, but the problem is that he also quoted him as one-sided. We also expect mutual understanding and mutual respect from there, and because of this report, the Hungarian Government here in the House points out one element, the issue of migration, and wants to force me, as a Hungarian Member, to vote for a resolution in which there is no rejection of the accusations of racism and anti-Semitism. [[19.20]] Doesn't it include, or does this proposal for a resolution recognise those ten points - the reduction of the rule of law, the situation of the media, the balances on brakes, corruption, and the list of ten? "You acknowledge the reality of those ten, because in this resolution they are merely saying that Hungary is being punished for migration. You want to distract attention from these important issues, and I challenge myself to be revolved by a government to vote for a resolution that states that I recognise from this resolution all that is not true. Come on, think, God bless you. Why didn't we do that when this report came out and they voted for it, why didn't we just do it so that all the party representatives would sit down and put together a resolution proposal that would really respond to this report and not force such a dictatorial instrument on us? I know this is so that they can talk until May after that, that someone didn't vote for your dictatorship. I know, I can see it, but at least don't quote János Horváth, please, because it's unworthy of him. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from Jobbik, LMP and DK.]]
u2018-10-03-145	I now give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc for two minutes.
u2018-10-03-146	Thank you very much. There won't be two minutes. I just want to respond to Andrea Varga-Damm about two things. On the one hand, no one is forcing you to vote. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] It's your choice. My fellow Member, Aradsk, said that he asked you to vote for him because it makes sense. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: If so asked, how do they demand it?]] No one is forcing you, and what you are missing, I will read the sentence where we reject it in the motion for a resolution: we reject the slanders of the lying anti-immigration indictment called the Sargentini report. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Write down what! Then complete it.]] The racist and anti-Semitic charges are as slanderous as the other slanders and 37 lying points in the document. We reject it here because it's a pro-immigration report, it's a lying report, and it contains slanders, so we reject it, so it's in there. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's not in there!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-147	Thank you. I am now giving the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-148	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, whether Brussels or not, whether Strasbourg likes it or not, whether it pleases Mr Soros and his NGO or not, and whether you like it, our honourable opposition fellow Members, or not, we Christian Democrats must answer and reject the flood of unjust accusations against Hungary in the Sargentini report, including the racist and anti-Semitic accusations themselves. That is why we have tabled H/1487 on defending Hungary's sovereignty and rejecting the slanders against Hungary. Parliamentary motion No. 1. Not because of what we have now heard from honourable opposition representatives from almost one sheet music for the ninth hour, but specifically in order to protect Hungary and to give a worthy response to the immigration politicians in Brussels and Strasbourg, as well as to the Soros NGOs that support them from behind. Finally understand: we cannot allow Hungary and the Hungarian people to be wrongly branded on the basis of false accusations and conceptual procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's get this straight. We are being attacked because we reject illegal immigration and all its forms. We are being attacked because we respect our EU and Schengen obligations. They're attacking us because we won't allow them to circumvent Schengen border protection. And respected or disrespected Triumvirate! Do you really think that their actions and the vote that unduly condemns us Hungarians will strengthen European solidarity? You really think that a legitimate government of an independent EU Member State, such as the 4th EU Member State, is a legitimate government. Doesn't the Orbán government have the right to follow the policy against which the Hungarian voters have given their votes for victory during the legal elections? Do you really think that we Hungarians have no right to defend our Christian identity? Despite the fact that Hungary has repeatedly made serious financial sacrifices and blood sacrifices throughout history, it has served Europe well, and is doing so now that they really believe that we are going to surrender to their ambitions of ignoring European values? Well, they're wrong. We will not yield to their petty vengeance. [[Péter Ungár and Gergely Arató intervene.]] We don't submit! I am talking about Triumvirate, you know: Brussels-Soros-Strasbourg. [[Péter Ungár: I didn't understand, now I understand!]] It's okay. We will not yield to their petty vengeance. We will not yield to any blackmail. We will also do everything in the future to protect Hungary from your dangerous plans and to protect Europe. And while we're at the bottom of this, we have to tell you that while you're preaching the rule of law to us, you're mocking the rule of law itself. You are experiencing the last crumbs of the moral authority of the European Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary will fight to develop next year a new European Parliament and a new European Commission that is committed to halting immigration and protecting borders. We will also fight for the fact that, as many of my fellow Members have already stressed, the People's Party will finally return to the path of the founding fathers of the European Union, the Christian Democratic Way, which means preserving European identity and sticking to European Christian roots. Because Europe will be either Christian or not, as the founding fathers Schuman, Adenauer and De Gasperi put it. In the fight for the survival of Europe and Hungary in it, you Hungarian voters will have a huge role to play, because it is up to you whether our fight leads to success, whether it leads to success, or whether a majority coalition for immigration at European level will be created, and the European nightmare, the illegal pro-immigration, migrant-stoking European policy will continue after 2019. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-149	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-03-150	Mr President, Dear House, I was standing on the battlefield waiting for an opportunity. We're not even sitting back, because there's no point in it, there's a continuous, active debate, which I see a number of benefits. There are many advantages to the differences between us. I'm trying to find the similarities, and there's someone among you who can and can't cooperate in his complete blindness. Don't look at who I looked at and who I didn't look at, 'cause I was doing my best for everyone. The fact is that a concept has emerged several times in today's debate - the exchange of people, which I have heard very often from István Csurka and his circles during my youthful socialization. To be honest, I hung on to these lectures, because there the real dangers of immigration and migration were portrayed in a realistic way, and although history did not seem to confirm that later, in 2015, when the inn in Debrecen broke out of the invaders and attacked innocent motorists and attacked innocent civilians, we indicated to the government that this vision could indeed become a serious reality. Their Secretary of State then indicated that such a problem did not exist, and it was said here in Parliament in 2015 that such a problem did not exist, in the year when the Prime Minister demanded a world quota in the United Nations. [[19.30]] But I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to something very important in terms of the exchange of people. You have thousands of defenses, so people who knocked politely, you took these people in. Some people then raped a Hungarian woman, had a different kind of crime, or simply disappeared in Europe and carried out a crime or terrorist act there. Therefore, the Hungarian screening system, the system of protection assessment, would need at least fine tuning and sophistication. But we also need to see that the protected ones are not the only ones threatening us. So if we are talking about a population exchange, the other side of the exchange is that certain parts of the country can be emptied, say, by international agreements, as in old, darker historical times, when one group of peoples was moved from there and another was moved to its place. Unfortunately, in the modern age, a similar process can be created by letting the Hungarian countryside evacuate, letting the Hungarian young people leave Hungary, and, more importantly, during today's debate, they pretended that this problem did not exist, so the problem of emigration does not exist. So there are long, multi-day, multi-hour debates on the 1300-quota people to be relocated here, while 600-700 thousand Hungarian emigrants do not reach their threshold of stimuli. I see that if we look at the numbers here, we have a very dark picture of Hungary, which is worth avoiding. So much more than 1300 protected people were allowed into the country, thus exceeding quota-like expectations, which I do not necessarily support. With more than 20,000 bondholders and family members, it is assumed that the number of people settled here has increased, and it is highly questionable how many of those concerned will go on to the Western European markets, I do not know what practices and machinations there are, and how many of them will stay here. Yesterday's news is that this government is also very active with regard to recruitment between Ukrainian workers, with 5,000 current figures. This is already your import of labour, your migration process, if you will, the mechanism of waiting that was implemented under Fidesz-KDNP by means of his legislation. I do not want to mention that large businessmen close to you have been threatening these people with the horror of mass imports of workers from the Far East for a long time, since I cannot hold you responsible for the statements of your friends, relatives, family members and business associates. But what we see is that Fidesz-KDNP has tabled a bill, not in the current period, but in the previous cycle, which is mainly for multinational companies, but allows mass labour imports. There it was called and described as a temporary process to eliminate labour market fluctuations. But we know the methodology for the formation of tin cities, and how those affected stay here. If you were more active in the Hungarian countryside, you would see where the former Hungarian farmer works, if any, in the Far East or Ukraine. And you'll also see that this exchange of people has certainly started. And if we speak not only of 5,000 Ukrainians, but also of 600-700 thousand emigrants, then we see that the exchange of populations can not only be achieved through international agreements, but also a vacuum effect that will allow you to empty Hungary, the Hungarian countryside, and then, obviously, ethnic groups who would prefer to live in Europe as non-Europeans. So we have this responsibility for decades of history. Yeah, we'll do it together. I would like to say once again: since 2010, there have been a million less Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin. If you do not think that this is a problem, if you do not think that this will reach your threshold, if you do not think that there is a need for a home-building, rental-building programme to make it easier for young Hungarians to stay home, and if you still do not see that a completely different incentive system is needed to avoid the demographic divide, then Hungary will be greeted by very dark years. I am still confident that we can find common solutions to avert this demographic emergency age, but the style of today's debate and the false sense of election of some pro-government representatives make it perfectly impossible to find common points. Yes, I am talking about the fact that not only did they use a very large vest style, that anyone who is not with you is against you, and that is either a fool or a traitor, but this has certainly been spiced up with the consciousness of a false selection, according to which a fellow Member felt to be the perfect knower of all truth. I think that neither of us is, and I think that the growth of this country would be carried forward by the solutions we have found together, and by the laws that the current opposition will see that they should be held in government ten years from now, let us say, with regard to family support, because this is how we can produce a predictable family support system, so that we can rebuild the social safety net, and then the demographic gap will turn into a turn of events. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-10-03-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is really good that our fellow Member, András Aradszki, spoke because he gave me the ammunition for the rest. [[Dr. András Aradski: I regret it.]] Excuse me? [[Dr. András Aradski: I regret speaking. Defiance.]] Well, maybe he'll survive. [[Defiance.]] So what's left in this resolution proposal is finally written down so that the Hungarian government doesn't give in to blackmail. The task of the Hungarian Government with this proposal is stated here that the Council recommends that Hungary take measures within three months. The word "promoted" and the word "extortion" are a little contrary to each other. It may be that with the Hungarian citizen, who does not read 68 pages or this resolution proposal, it is possible to believe that this is blackmail, I consider it only because we are now almost just lawyers sitting in this room, at least in the party group of the government, to distinguish the word "promoted" from the word "extortion." But if you are not a lawyer, there is no problem, but you are a legislator, but you are certain because the Member is a legislator, so it has something to do with the law. Therefore, the word "extortion" in the decision is not included in the report, it is written in a recommendation. So if the pro-government representatives ask us to vote in favour of this resolution, one: include everything that is not true in the resolution. Not in general, as my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has just read, because we usually do not make judgments, we do. Don't usually say you're blackmailing me and businessmen and I don't know who you are. Tell us what is not true, and when you tell us what is not true, what we say is not true, then bring it to the House, and then tell us that a patriot is a patriot if you vote for this report or this resolution proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-03-153	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-154	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman Vejkey, Allow me, however, to argue firmly with you on one point; in other words, it could be a matter of substance, but it is more of a matter of approach. Mr. Congressman, you're talking about the conspiracy theory that we Hungarians will be...! Honourable Congressman, You are not us Hungarians. You're a couple, the Fidesz. You are not the same as the country, even if you sometimes think you are. I have to say that those who are not Fidesz Members of Parliament and even those who are not Fidesz Voters are also part of this country. I have to add, they're two-thirds majority of non-Fidesz voters. Therefore, I suggest that we continue the debate in such a way that we assume that he is in the interests of the Hungarian people. You may be wrong, you may be wrong, but this is the way to have a meaningful debate. I am also saying this because, as an optimistic soul here at the end of the debate, I would also like to mention something that I think could really be discussed in a meaningful way. Because what Europe's future should be like is an important debate. Where to get more, more powers are given to the European Union, where to remove or reduce its powers, how to regulate the functioning of the European Union, this is one of the most important debates not only for Europe but also for Hungary in it. For if we are all supposedly imagining the future of Hungary within the European Union, then this is a crucial issue for Hungary. This is something that should be discussed here in Parliament, and it would also be worth discussing in the European Parliament's campaign, and that should be the only thing that we should be discussing, and not how should I put this carefully? constructions. [[19.40]] Finally, as far as Jobbik is concerned, let me make a picnic comment. It should be decided, Mr and Mrs Csurka, that they are now offended by the assumption that there is anti-Semitism in Hungary or that they are socialised in István Csurka. Because they're difficult to match. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why are you doing this at the last minute? Dr. Pál Völner: The alliance is gone!]]
u2018-10-03-155	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár in two minutes.
u2018-10-03-156	I would like to begin by saying that because someone quotes István Csurka, he will not be an anti-Semite; I have already quoted István Csurka, who is not an anti-Semite. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: See, there is an open personality here, you can learn from it!]] So let's just leave it at that. [[Gergely Harvester: BFFs!]] I would like to start by saying that it is not a shame to agree with Gergely Harvestó that we should talk about how we want to change the European Union, because at the moment he is not well as he is. I believe that at that time I have drawn up a consensus of today's debate so at the end. And how are we supposed to change it? You said earlier, perhaps my fellow Member Nacsa, that I would like to amend the basic agreement. I agree with this, and the basic Treaty of the European Union, such as agricultural land, should be removed from the free movement of capital, because land is not as good as the other capital good that can be moved. The land is in one place, it must be owned by those who work there, who work there, and should therefore not be subject to the free movement of capital; for example, the Treaty could be amended in this respect. In the beginning, the LMP has a difference in view of the neoliberal idea that belongs to the European People's Party and, among other things, Fidesz: we believe that the principle of four freedoms should not define the European Union, but the principle of four responsibilities, and we believe that, for example, environmental and capital constraints should be included in this. One more, very briefly. Mr. Congressman, the reason I didn't understand who the Triumvirate was talking to and who the Triumvirate was is is because I don't feel like a Western European city, so I'm not Brussels or Strasbourg personally, and I'm not George Soros either, even though I ended up at CEU, as was the Secretary of State or Elijah. So I don't know if you should send this open letter to serialgy@gmail.com or to the Brussels municipality or Strasbourg, but I can't tell you why you read it here. So neither the mayor of Brussels nor the Strasbourger nor Juncker are sitting here, so I don't know who you said this to, but I'm really glad that it made you feel better to tell me, and then you could tell me. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm applaud.]]
u2018-10-03-157	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, My screen's empty. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on today's debate after more than nine hours. [[No one's reporting.]] There are no candidates, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc to give his final words as the author.
u2018-10-03-158	Thank you very much. I knew this moment would come in today's debate, which is why I didn't do two minutes in the last minute. I would like to respond to a number of things, but first of all, I would like to thank all our fellow Members who participated in the debate today, for these more than nine hours, and have tried to comment on this proposal for a resolution, this political response, although there was no majority of comments on the subject from opposition benches. Here, opposition representatives held a debate among themselves on the amendment of the health salad law, the social law, the education law and many other laws, and they did not speak to it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: At least the opposition makes sense!]] At the same time, I think it is important that we talk about this, and I just want to respond to a few things. It is not Gergely Arató who should agree or not to reform Europe, because he did not propose this, but Viktor Orbán, if the merits are to be debated here. [[Gergely Harvester: Sorry!]] So based on the analogy of Péter Ungár, I would say that there is no shame in agreeing with Viktor Orbán. That is what I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát, who said the common points here in his last speech, and spoke about finding the things that we agree on in the debate. I absolutely agree with this, my fellow Member, that in your ordinary speech, not now, but once before, you have stated objective truths in your view, what we are doing wrong, what is working wrong, which is your political opinion, but obviously these are not objective truths either, as is always the objective truth that we are telling in this House. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Almost always. [[Defiance. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Thank you for your admission. Let's stop now. Péter Ungár: This is the best!]] I would like to say that, for example, I believe that the points of connection are making a historic mistake by the opposition. It's not my place to tell the opposition how to play politics, but it's a historic mistake. Here are the links that Viktor Orbán announced on several occasions in his speech as Prime Minister, in his speech in Tusnádfürdő and now in the summer, a vision for the future of Hungary until 2030, about Hungary's development, in which I believe you had things that you could agree with with with a good heart: demographic issues, family support, reconstruction of the Carpathian Basin, infrastructure improvements. I think that this vision should be joined by the opposition, and whether it is a specific text with amendments, it is now a vision, whether with amendments or political opinions, because, for example, this is an accession point with many common points, in which we can agree on a lot of things, and you should add to this vision in some way what you can add as a responsible opposition from the current situation, because it is a multi-cycle plan. So I think there's an important role in this. I cannot go without saying that Andrea Varga-Damm said that we are now debating whether we had the two-thirds, we did not have the two-thirds uncertainty about the procedure. You said that even if there were 20 to 30 percent who refused, it would be too much, and it would still be sad. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Who votes!]] Your policy is being rejected by a lot more than that, so I don't think we should use these numbers to measure this performance. We think, and we believe that this is true, that in the next eight months, until 26 May, the EP campaign will be about immigration, whether you like it or not. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm sure that's what this is about.]] It is worth figuring out a firm position, and it is worth taking a position on this issue that can be taken before your constituents, as that is what the EP campaign will be about. We see that these breakpoints, we see that within the European Union, they are the divisions between parties, organisations, peoples and governments. I would like to come here with recent data, not proposals from 2015, and I would like to bring two things here, because we are not showing this any better. On 12 September, the European Commission published information on its website, in which things were described as talking about extending the possibility of legal migration routes, talking about resettlement programmes in the Member States of 50,000, talking about the creation of safe migration routes that they would like to increase the current migration opportunities. This is the Commission document of 12 September. Another such moment, which I would like to quote here, is the UN Declaration by Dimitris Avramopoulos from New York, where he specifically said that managing border protection is important for them because they can ensure the influx of immigrants so that they can roll the obstacles away from receiving immigrants, and said that they want to speed up their efforts and urge the implementation of resettlement programmes. These are not documents from years ago, this is a Commission briefing on 12 September and a statement from the UN Commissioner last week. I think it is clear from these that the campaign of the European Union campaign, the European Parliament election, will be about immigration. That is why we believe that instead of the current Commission, the current leadership in Brussels and this Parliament, we need a majority in Brussels who oppose immigration, who can defend Europe's borders, who can protect Europe's citizens and who can guarantee Europe's security. The proposal for a resolution before us, presented by Minister Gergely Gulyás, Mr Máté Kocsis, and my colleague László Böröcz, is a political response to a political attack, which we have never denied. You are trying to make these accusations that this is just a political document. We have not denied that this is a political response, and we believe that a political response should be given to such a political attack. The document, by the way, rejects all the slanders, which I spoke about earlier. We believe that there is also a true point in the Sargentini report in the document, namely the Sargentini report, that we are protecting our borders and that we are not allowing illegal migration. That's true, that's what we're doing, so we acknowledge that Judith Sargentini has written this completely legitimately and legally. We see that the verdict was written in advance, that they wanted to condemn Hungary against immigration, so not only the report was a liar, but the vote was also illegal. Whatever Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm can say, that this is how the vote in the European Parliament has been done since 2004 - the everyday, everyday vote... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's been that way since '79! Dániel Z. Carpathian: He is my age!]] Since 2004 we have been part of it, and the Hungarian Members have been sitting there since then, so I say that time frame. This is how everyday, everyday votes are held. At the same time, in the Treaty of the European Union, we are also talking about special votes, where the English word link is that the votes cast, i.e. the votes cast. [[19.50]] And in the case of special votes, such as the vote on the procedure under Rule 7, all votes cast shall be counted, which is yes, no and abstention, as it was possible to cast a abstention, as your representative did, he cast a abstention. So it was possible to cast a vote like this. They didn't count it, we think it was wrong and it was cheated. That is precisely why this document states that the Government is attacking this voting procedure at the Court of Justice of the European Union. No matter whether we call this uncertainty fraud or procedural uncertainty, it was not legal. What we see is that the European Parliament is experiencing the last crumbs of its moral authority when it condemns a country in a rule of law case by ignoring its own rule of law. It is therefore important to ask the Government to review and initiate the procedure the necessary remedies. I understand the Justice Department is already working on making that happen. Once again, what I would like to say about the report is that we have also seen in today's debate why opposition representatives voted the way they voted. Let us make it clear once again that the Gyurcsány Party, the Socialist Party and the Dialogue voted in favour. [[Gergely Arató: Don't call us the Gyurcsány Party, we don't call you the Orbán Party.]] The Gyurcsány Party, the Socialists and the Dialogue voted in favour of the Sargentini report, while Jobbik and LMP were or were absent from this report [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] , and has not delivered an opinion. They didn't stand up for Hungary either. I would like to say what is only partly related to the debate is the fact that another procedure under Article 7 has been launched against Poland, obviously because Poland is the other loudest critic of Brussels' pro-immigration policy and, therefore, they want to punish the Poles as well. I would like to say that we want this procedure to be terminated as soon as possible, completed, and if it reaches such a stage, we will be raising a veto alongside our Polish friends and thus not be able to pass the attack on them. I think it's very important to tell you that. We think that now there is a reason to go in one direction and there is a reason to pull it in the same direction, because in Europe, alongside the Hungarian government, there are more and more people who take their actions out of the essentials and the reality. We hope that you can join this action. I think it is time for at least part of this proposal for a resolution to correct their previous decisions, and now to stand next to the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people, and to vote in favour of the parliamentary report before us. This way, everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-159	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. Act and Act XLV of 2008 on the non-court procedures of individual notaries. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/1658. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-10-03-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, From time to time, the National Assembly is a witness and active participant in the renewal of the rules on certain legal professions. Today is the 1991 XLI on notaries. We present to you the directions and reasons for the latest amendment to the law. For the sake of legislation, the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries made proposals based on the experience gained in practice. In order to ensure the coherence of the legal system, the bill is the XLV of 2008 on individual notaries' non-court proceedings, which provides the backbone of the procedural rules of the profession. It also contains minor amendments to the Act. First of all, I draw attention to the importance of the fact that this amendment of the notary law creates the possibility for notaries or notaries to employ one of their employees in part-time work with another notary or notary office operating in the same regional chamber. This could, in particular, open up new opportunities for mothers and workers with small children returning to the labour market, thereby increasing financial security. In part, the new double employment rules allow employees of notaries to have employment with another notary under conditions other than the Labour Code. The rules for the replacement of notaries will also be renewed in order to ensure that, in the event of both general and permanent substitution, colleagues with whom the parties have previously agreed to perform the tasks of the absent notary. The compliance of the agreement with the law will be examined and approved by the regional chamber and, under its authority, appointed or recalled by the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, The activities of notaries have not lost any significance over the past decades. However, professional responsibility and quality work need to be further strengthened and encouraged due to changed circumstances. To this end, the amount of the fine that can be imposed in disciplinary proceedings will increase significantly: from HUF 2 million to HUF 20 million for notaries and from HUF 500,000 to HUF 2 million for notaries. The conditions for notary appointment will become more stringent, as from 1 January 2019 the bill makes it mandatory, like the judges, to participate in the examination of qualifications. It is noticeable that the expectations of notaries are increasing both personally and professionally. The notary's responsibility should also be given a transparent and predictable framework. Therefore, in order to ensure the nullity of the authentic instrument prepared by the notary for reasons which are not possible after a longer period of time, the bill does not allow reference to be made to the parties, in certain cases, only within a limitation period of five years. Following an overview of the substance of the amendments on the basis of the notary task provision, please pay attention to certain further amendments to the notary law and the non-courtial procedural law. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the simplification of the requirements for the presentation of certain authentic instruments within the European Union shall apply from 16 February 2019. In order to comply with this Regulation, thus simplifying the use of authentic instruments in another Member State, the notary law will provide that a multilingual form under the Regulation may be drawn up in the course of the issue of a document certifying the existence of a person in life. It is also necessary to establish new powers of authority for the regional chamber, in line with the amendments already made under the bill. The electoral rules of the Chamber will also change in part, after only the right to vote will be exercised in person in the future, and the chamber positions will be slightly changed. The office of cashier in the national chamber will be terminated as the relevant tasks are already carried out by auditors. According to the bill, auditors will also monitor the management of chambers at the level of regional chambers in the future. As a conclusion, I would like to mention technical amendments that are justified by electronicisation or changed data processing requirements, and that have been encouraged to include the data of practical needs such as the legal representative in the authentic instrument. In addition, the bill contains some coherence amendments in the context of the rules of the non-courtial procedural law. I ask this House, with its vote in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-03-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Thank you very much for Mr Secretary of State's exposé, in which I think you have explained with sufficient detail the reasons for the need for the bill before us. The Fidesz fraction supports the adoption of the bill, given that the amendment of the law on notaries became necessary on the basis of the practical experience observed by the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries. The notary profession has undergone a great transformation recently, and it is extremely important that the notary, as the depositary of public credibility, retains the authority to the full satisfaction of the public seeking rights. [[20.00]] We also consider it important that the government responds appropriately to the professional comments of each body and integrates their professional proposals in this area into practice. In our view, the bill also serves this purpose with regard to the notary chamber. The bill before us establishes, among other things, the legal framework for the employment of notaries, notaries and notaries by two notaries, and introduces a career test as a condition for appointment. It implements a significant modernisation of the rules on substitution, clarifies the rules on electoral rights linked to chamber elections, makes the rules and legal consequences of the incompetence procedure more transparent and consistent. In many respects, the system of disciplinary action and the rules of disciplinary penalties that can be imposed is tightened. In addition to these main points, the proposal makes a number of technical amendments in line with changed operational circumstances. The work of the notary profession is highly respected in Hungary today and can be said to be able to perform the tasks entrusted to them in a high and efficient manner. A clear aim should continue to be to improve the efficiency of the judiciary and to improve the level of administration through procedures provided to notaries by reducing the burden on courts. In the last 25 years, there have been more and more changes in the lives of the notary than in the previous hundred. They play a fundamental and growing role in the provision of law, in the safe adaptation of people to a rapidly changing environment and in the resolution of contradictions. The bill submitted by the Minister of Justice will make practical changes that will make the task of providing legal services even more effective and more appropriate, both for the benefit of the judiciary and for the benefit of customers. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-03-163	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give her speech on the pulpit.
u2018-10-03-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This seems to be an amendment to the Law on notaries and an amendment to the law in force from 2008 on non-court proceedings, if we just go through it, it may indeed be a proposal for legislation adapted to life. But I have to say, in the details, the Ministry made a pretty nasty motion, and I'll explain that later. The notaries did, until the second half of the 2000s, enjoy quite a lot of social respect, until a notary staff of about a hundred became involved in the unworthy and harsh foreign currency lending case in which they knew precisely that their involvement should have been denied. Since the '90s, the material and existential prestige of notaries is quite high, the circle of notaries is the privileged social group, which from time to time has always been given one or more tasks by the current government to increase their financial strength significantly. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it was a number of years when the most sought after Hungarian citizen was a notary notary, not for a year, nor for a notary; it is very likely that these beneficiary positions, which were given the power of current legislation, so to speak, created for them the incompetence and the full vulnerability of citizens to them because of the power of notaries. So, indeed, there was respect for society, but from the second half of the 2000s, they lost confidence in the very broad sections of society. Not just because they contributed to such a series of cases, and the burdens, the disadvantages that foreign exchange credentials suffered, were not only carried out in an unlimited and self-serving manner, but also at the time of the inquiries, with arrogance and self-righteous rejection of the responsibilities in this regard, which is especially unacceptable, especially from a professional order. The Law on notaries has already included strict rules, in particular Article 1 (1). Paragraph 2 of Section 3 § (1) and Article 121 §, which specifically refers to the fact that, on the one hand, it assists the parties concerned by teaching and, on the other hand, refuses to participate in unfair cases and, on the third, must consider transactions which may later give rise to a dispute between the parties as a matter of concern. None of the rules in the case of foreign exchange lending have been complied with, and how interesting it is that this professional order, where the notary commits any infringement against a client, can constantly defend itself by the fact that the client has signed it and considers that he does not really have to do the lecture or raise concerns. Of course, there are welcome parts of this legislative proposal, such as the introduction of a career test. We do not understand why it applies only to applicants from 1 January 2019. I myself know quite a few notaries, on the one hand, their professional skills, and, on the other hand, so to speak, regarding their psychic condition, that I think they would not have been able to practice this profession in a long time. I do not understand that if the judges were able to introduce the capacity of the judges in office, then why not do so with the notaries, even because they are introducing the system of this. It is to be welcomed that the system of substitution is a little more coherent and disciplined, because virtually no one in recent years has known who is replacing and what powers it can exercise. In practice, we have found that notaries only give their names to their offices, in fact, they perform meaningful activities by substitutes who do not have the kind of discipline or professional knowledge that we expect of notaries. The proposal welcomes the replacement of incomplete regulation after the death of notaries. The development of the task and powers and system of permanent and permanent substitution is to be welcomed. The fact that it cannot be considered for the purposes of the fee regulation is to be welcomed. The inclusion of stricter rules in its disciplinary system is to be welcomed, in fact, that all those that do need disciplinary action may be even more so in the future. But the proposal is 25-27. § a very harsh act, I do not even understand the judicial government, why did you think that in the benches of the opposition there would be no lawyer who noticed that this change of law was practically smuggled into the case-law by this law. This is basically about the fact that the Secretary of State has also presented and, of course, not the whole piece of legislation of this amendment, the essence of which is that, after five years, it is no longer possible to refer to nullity or invalidity in relation to the general provisions of the Civil Code. The Civil Code places the legal consequences of non-compliance and non-compliance without a time limit. Now, in fact, this legislation, by smuggling a civil law provision into the notary law, changes it to the extent that it may not be noticed by those concerned, but the case law must respond to it. How does the judicial government think that it highlights in the law governing the formality of the conclusion of legal proceedings the right to an unlimited reference of nullity limited to five years. This is simply unacceptable. Even if, by the way, this proposal raises and alters certain conditions under which a notary document can be drawn up, as a practice that can be enforced within five years, this, whether you like it or not, is currently contrary to the rules of the civil code. And since I consider myself that the Civil Code is a higher law than the Law on notaries, I would like to ask the representative of the government, with respect, to think very carefully about maintaining this amendment to the law, because I myself am going to propose to the Jobbik faction that it should not vote for this law in any way, although it has very positive and positive elements. [[20.10]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The proposal touched on the 2008 edition of Annex VIII. a law establishing a system of rules for non-court proceedings. I welcome the fact that some amendments have been made to this, but if we are already discussing this proposal, I will take this opportunity and ask the government representative about the anomalies between non-court proceedings, if they already have to recognise it, as there are numerous complaints from the judicial authorities every day about why notaries in non-court proceedings do not, for example, make an obligation to check the address of debtors in payment order procedures. The representatives of the government may not have heard of this, but I myself have seen a lot of such cases week after week, especially claims managers, financial institutions, large service providers either intentionally, or because of their old data, carelessly give the defendants addresses in payment order procedures that are not real. And there is a partner, this Magyar Posta, which has decided, despite its own rules, that it is unwilling to use either the inadequacy of the address, or the unknown to the recipient, or the death of the recipient, or the possibilities that could create that there is no service in force against the debtor. The representatives of the government may not know it, but the Post Office also sends notifications to unknown people who have never lived at the address, leaving notice as if they were living there, and arriving at the end with an unsearched address. Imagine that, in the case of several million HUF claims, a multitude of people are first informed by the executives that they are subject to a final judgment, since if they are not challenged after the notary order for payment procedure, then they should be regarded as a final decision with the same effect as the final judgment. Interestingly, executives find debtors, and compared to that, false addresses are used to submit payment orders in order to prevent interested parties. This affects a broad social layer, such a serious problem system. Moreover, if the judicial government were interested, for example, in asking the notary chamber to send the number of requests for the annulment of the presumption of service, they would be able to determine how serious this problem is, since there is no such thing as being unable to defend against them, even with unfounded claims, and at an enforcement stage, to avoid having to pay the otherwise nonexistent claim. By then, his entire assets will be placed under execution, an amazing psychological burden to bear. I thought that if the government had already submitted such a relatively wide-ranging amendment proposal to Parliament, then, recognising the difficulties and problems of society, it would have to complement this legislation with obligations such that, for example, in order to rebuild trust in the professional order of notaries, they would have to check the address of the claimant. Today, because of the features of the electronic system, notaries can obtain data from anyone using up to two known data, so that at least these problems can be avoided. Although it is a fact that the irregular activity of Posta is the main cause of these problems, I consider that, since they cannot be counted on as a company, at least notaries, who are truly authentic and acting on behalf of the public, prevent these terrible situations from occurring by amending the place of law. Finally, I can say to the honourable government and the representatives of the governing parties that this legislation leaves on the one hand, the 25-27. The provisions of Section 2 or at least a professional debate will begin in this regard, because we have always been open to professional debate, and if the intention of the legislator or the intention of the Ministry of Justice is indeed technically acceptable, then let us talk about this and not have the consequences of this proposal which hinder the enforcement of citizens. I ask just because the President of the Judicial Committee is sitting in a series of representatives to go through the text of this legislation in a detailed debate, let us look at the proposals that should be incorporated or the confusion that may arise between the provisions of the Civil Code and these new rules, and let us resolve that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2018-10-03-165	Thank you very much. Good evening. We will continue with the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-166	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we must point out that Hungary has had recognition of the activities of the notary profession for decades and enjoys the trust of citizens as well as the trust of the legislator, the executive and the judicial authorities, because they perform the tasks entrusted to them in a high and efficient manner. What are these tasks entrusted to them? An authentic instrument shall be issued for legal transactions on the basis of the mutual consent of the parties. They shall also issue an authentic instrument on facts of legal importance. They're keeping documents. They can receive money, items and securities for transfer. They're conducting probate and non-court proceedings. And legal service providers also carry out official activities under the authority of the law in the jurisdiction delegated to the courts. Thus, notaries perform all these tasks effectively and quickly, despite the fact that they are constantly expanding year after year, due to the fact that the courts are relieved of the burden. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/1658. The annual XLI on notaries is amended for a number of provisions of the bill No. The 2008 XLV on individual notary non-court proceedings is affected by law and coherence. to establish a legal framework for the employment of notaries, notaries and notaries by two notary offices; to introduce, as a condition for appointment of notaries, a career review; to implement a significant modernisation of the rules for substitution; to clarify the rules for the exercise of the right to vote in the Chamber elections; to make the rules and requirements of the incompetence procedure even more transparent and consistent; to tighten the rules of disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary penalties in several respects; and to make a number of technical amendments in accordance with the changed operational requirements. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner said before me on behalf of the Government, nor have I already said in the main speech by my fellow Member, Mr Károly Becsó Fidesz, because I fully agree with them. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports this bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-03-167	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2018-10-03-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In three speeches, the content of the proposal has already been sufficiently discussed. [[20.20]] We heard about the content from the Secretary of State's exposé, and I wouldn't repeat that. Obviously, there would be a number of changes to the legislation that are very important for notaries and notary society. Indeed, 27 years have passed since 1991, and obviously there can be a lot of practical things based on the experience that you have put forward here on the basis of the proposals of the National notary Chamber. However, let us not go without saying what Andrea Varga-Damm has just noted here, quite rightly, that there are several points that could be addressed if there is an amendment, which is not part of the proposal, but is not part of the proposal. I would also like to draw attention to the authenticity of the address in relation to payment orders, which is indeed an important issue which, I think, could be an important guarantee for citizens. I, too, have encountered many cases where citizens have already been faced at virtually the stage of implementation with the fact that they owe someone at all, and often these cases have come to this point without any legal basis. Obviously, Andrea Varga-Damm's speech was motivated or founded by the fact that, just as she has dealt with a great deal of foreign exchange credit issues, she may be even deeper, and she sees that part of the notary society has played a major role in the fact that, by the way, this credit crisis has come up in this form. I think there have been some changes in this, some forward-looking steps, like the notary or his deputy, if any, have to read the contract itself. The fact that more conscientious notaries and notaries add other clarification to this, or try to properly inform citizens of the burden of repaying such a loan, if any, is correct and forward-looking. This may require further progress and further guarantees, but I think that the situation has improved, but it is also possible to make the amendments and proposals in this matter, where appropriate, in order to strengthen the credibility of the notary profession that our fellow Member has said here. It hasn't been mentioned yet, but an IM regulation regulates fees. While this is not part of this proposal, there was news of this, it was a very serious increase in fees, and this regulation was published in quite concrete terms. The rates have changed a long time ago, and that is true, and the rethinking of this may also be timely, but let me say that I think it is right that this did not come into force from 1 October. As I understand it, if my information is correct, the fees may change from 1 January 2019 after rethinking, Mr. Secretary of State, or you will deny it later. I would like to say that I understand, but it should be designed in such a way that Hungarian people do not have the stomach to go to a notary. We know very well when they usually go to borrowing, or most often at that time. Therefore, regulation and legislation should also be made for notaries so as not to increase the rates for at least poorer social groups, the needy ones. In my view, I would be happy to participate in such a work if I needed ideas that did not raise the charges for the needy, a rethink of the regulation could happen, which obviously contains a fee increase only for very large items. I would like to say that, obviously, if such legislation was introduced on the basis of the proposals of the notary Chamber, then I think that in other areas of life there could be legislation for ordering in this sense. Let me give you an idea right away: trade unions have been proposing for years, almost without exception, that the Code of Work should be rethought to the House, for example, regarding the right to strike. I think that, if this can be proposed, it is possible to listen to the proposals of trade unions and, where appropriate, to reconsider the labour code. My proposal, concluding my point, in particular, concerning the presentation: let us think together with the IM regulation, together with this legislation, let us not think separately, and we would like to do so if there is already time until 1 January, to look deeper into it, so perhaps it would be good if the Secretary of State said a few words about what citizens can expect about notary fees. It is very important for notaries to be respected members of the Hungarian society, so all members of the Hungarian society are important, and obviously it is also an important question not to increase the burden of citizens disproportionately, especially for those in need. And what I would like to say is that if the possibility of rethinking has been opened, whether in terms of specific items or in terms of specific elements, then I think that it might be a little over-extended at the Justice Committee's meeting, to think together in the context of a detailed debate, or even to make amendments to the portfolio itself. I'm also looking forward to hearing that. So once again, there are a lot of eligible elements in the original proposal, but it needs to be amended, and I would like to say that I think it would also be right for society to think about this issue together with the regulation containing the fees. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-03-169	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, head speaker of DK. Here.
u2018-10-03-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is refreshing to take part in this debate, it is almost like sitting in a normally functioning parliament of a normally functioning democracy, or at least in a parliamentary committee of it, taking account of the number of people. I think it is important that we are at last not talking about triumvirates, horsemen of the apocalypse, conspiracys and other spy stories, but about what Parliament would normally have to do most: shape relationships that determine people's lives. The notary faculty, the good functioning of the notary system in this, I think there is consensus in Parliament, an important public interest, and it is also in the interest of Hungarian citizens to make this system work. I would not repeat the words of the Secretary of State and the President from this point of view, it is quite clear that a well-functioning system is such a relief for the citizen that saves him more costs, more time, more effort, and prevents them, or allows him to make simple decisions about these disputes, this is an important public interest. It is also an important intention and should be fundamentally supported that, based on the experience of the past two and a half decades, a relatively comprehensive amendment should be made to the notary law. However, in this amendment, we need to take into account two important aspects, two important balances. One balance is the balance between the interests of the notary's staff and the interests of customers. Obviously, we want the system to work well for this, so that notaries can operate under appropriate conditions, for adequate remuneration, under orderly and regulated conditions. But it is also important and important that citizens who come to them receive a reliable, high-quality service, and guarantees that the notary faculty actually provides them with the kind of protection and service that is the essence of this institution. We therefore consider it important to consider these points and not repeat them, as we agree with them, which my fellow opposition Members have expressed in relation to the experience of the past period, what are the critical areas where we consider this proposal to be considered and amended. However, there is another area, which is the relationship between the chamber and the notary. Because while a well-functioning chamber is a crucial factor in the reliable functioning of the notary's faculty, it is also necessary to ensure that the interests of the individual notary, the notary himself and his employees, are protected by the law. We have concerns from this point of view. As opposed to our opposition fellow Members, while we agree that serious criminal offences require serious disciplinary penalties, it is also our view that, at the same time, appropriate guarantees are needed so that these decisions can only be taken in a well-founded manner and with appropriate procedural and substantive guarantees. So we say, and this does not apply to the notary chamber, I would like to add, but in the case of other chambers, we have seen negative examples of how a chamber management has not become a transmission belt representing the interests of the particular profession. [[20.30]] And we have also seen examples of, for example, how elections could be conducted in a very specific way for certain chambers. I would not go in this direction, but in this law we would also like strong guarantees that it is guaranteed that the notary chamber really represents the common interests of notaries, and it is guaranteed that no brakes and no counterweight power can develop here. To sum up, therefore, we look forward to a detailed debate and hope that this proposal will improve and not deteriorate. The final position on the proposal can be established by the Democratic Coalition if we know the outcome of the detailed debate and, of course, we will see what last-minute amendments will come out of the legislative committee. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-03-171	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one asked for a two-minute speech for a reason, so now we can listen to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-172	Mr President, Dear House, After an eight-hour debate on the Sargentini report, it is indeed refreshing to take part in a debate, I think, only within professional circles. I would like to add myself that, not as a professional lawyer, but as an economist, I was deepened in the world of notaries after my deeper contact with foreign exchange-credit cases. And I must point out that, by talking last year about some 480 thousand orders for payment in the entire system of which we are talking, we are also dealing with a very serious market segment here, because according to my teachers, it made sense mainly from a legacy point of view to leave the notary system in the business sector in 1990, but at the same time more and more professional lawyers are debating that the 50 percent rule would be rethinkable. And I'm not sure it's possible to maintain today's status as a notary with a little exaggeration, but basically, it's only possible on extinction grounds. Here, companies themselves can take in a very large number of businesses, not special and not professional, but, in fact, any kind of business partner. In this way, the method of making a profit can also become a little more fuzzy. We would like to say that in recent years, there has been a year when 3 of the 10 largest taxpayers of the NAV were supposed to have a deeper relationship with the notary sphere or to be a notary. However, 3 out of the 10 largest taxpayers are still indicators, without considering anyone's activities, which should encourage a review of the legislator. I would also like to say that I am saying a specific case based on my own personal declaration. There have been experts who have indicated that 70 percent of his annual income is directly or indirectly derived from the commercial banking network against which he should be told that there is no implementation event or that the legal nature of the processes is not necessarily justified by the processes on paper. So it is quite certain that a new approach should be introduced into this system, and the increase and rise of fees are not a coincidence. This would put an end to a multi-annual debate. I would also like to point out that, in any increase in fees, there will obviously be agreement on the opposition side that it is certain that people who have suffered foreign exchange credit, who are in a difficult situation, apart from their own failure, will not be affected by this in any way. This can be done in a number of ways: either by drawing a certain limit or in other countries, they have moved to the fact that debts that are not so dramatic have been removed from the whole system. Thirdly, I would like to point out that it is also possible to move towards the Croatian solution in this regard, because it is clear that it is only above a certain level that it is possible to order an implementation event that notaries simply cannot take on the lowest levels alone, alone and without any control. Given the abundance of abuses, I therefore believe that this system should at least be reconsidered. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-03-173	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, as the author, you want to reflect, please.
u2018-10-03-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only a few questions have been asked, and do not remain unanswered. On the subject of foreign exchange lenders, it was said that there are opportunities for notaries. Technically, the validity of these can also be examined by the court, so the circumstances under which the document was created are clearly open to legal proceedings. With regard to careers, it has been said about the regular notaries that it would be a good thing to do so. In the incompetence procedure, chambers will also have the right to order a career review of notaries already in office. You mentioned the nullity of the authentic instrument, Congresswoman. This does not mean, in practice, the nullity of civil law and substantive law, so this can be examined separately and, in practice, it can be challenged in court under the current legislation. That does not mean that, as far as its content is concerned. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We'll talk about this.]] Okay, we'll talk about this on the committee. It's okay. The other concerns the order for payment, which is not the subject of this proposal, so it is clearly necessary in the law on the order for payment, if possible or not, to remedy this issue by way of delivery. About the prizes. My fellow Member, László Varga, mentioned that by 1 January, the regulations that have not entered into force now will be reviewed, and hopefully will be changed in a positive direction, at least that is the expectation. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-175	Thank you very much. The amendment proposals, Honourable Parliament, will be available on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain industrial property laws until closure. The government referral is T/1659. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/1659 amending certain industrial property rights rules The purpose of the adoption of the legislative proposal No.22436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks. transposing a directive by amending the trade mark law. Member States have 3 years to transpose the provisions of this Directive and 7 years to comply with Articles 45 and 45 respectively from the date of entry into force. This deadline will expire on 14 January 2019. Allow me first to explain amendments for harmonisation which constitute a significant part of the bill. The results of the EU trade mark reform in 2007-2015 are contained in the Directive, the EU trade mark regulation and its implementing legislation, the Implementing Regulation and the Delegated Regulation. The social, technological and other significant changes since the establishment of the trade mark protection system have made it necessary to revise the provisions of the Directive on the harmonisation of trade mark law in the Member States and the provisions of the Regulation on the protection of a single EU trade mark. The delegated Regulation shall contain detailed rules on the procedures for the declaration of opposition, invalidity and revocation of a trade mark before the European Union Intellectual Property Office and on the rules on the composition of the Board of Appeals. The bill before you removes the requirement for graphic transparency of the sign in respect of marks that can be registered as a trade mark. It complements the concept of a trade mark by establishing the new requirements of the Directive on the representation of the trade mark in the Register and by listing the types of trade marks which may be newly registered. As a result of this change, different marks can be protected compared to the current one, so it will also be possible to register types of trademarks such as sound, video, movement, or combinations of such marks. [[20.40]] The bill will review the system of grounds for refusal of registration in the light of the directive. As a new reason, the exclusion of a mark prohibited by a law other than the trade mark from registration as a trade mark appears. New, unconditional and relative grounds for exclusion are also introduced for geographical indications, which are supplemented by new grounds for refusal of registration for traditional terms and traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety names to be examined ex officio. The proposal also implements the clarification and addition of the content of the rights deriving from the trade mark in accordance with the new provisions of the Directive. In this context, it explicitly refers to the use of the trade mark without a licence in a trade name or in a company name as a infringement of a trade mark, as well as the unlawful use of the trade mark in a comparative advertising. An infringement of the rights deriving from the trade mark shall mean the importation of goods of transit from third countries without being released for free circulation, without authorisation, accompanied by an indication identical to or similar to the registered trade mark. Unauthorized use in the framework of certain preparatory acts, such as the placing on the packaging of the trade mark on the label, may also be considered as a infringement of a trade mark. The bill also adjusts the provisions of the trade mark law to the directive in the context of the restrictions on trade mark protection and limits the liability for infringement by granting the Directive rights of use. The rules on the registration of trade marks are also amended, increasing legal certainty. In line with the rules of the Directive, the provisions relating to the use of the trade mark will become more transparent, the regulation on collective and certification marks and the renewal of the trade mark will also be amended. Dear Parliament, In the following, I would like to briefly describe the amendments made to the bill in the light of the needs of the trade mark law in the application of the law. The bill repeals the provisions relating to proceedings relating to the termination of the trade mark in the event of the termination of the proprietor of the trade mark without his successor, shortens certain procedural deadlines and also changes the rules on the conditions under which the trade mark is held. The third part of the amendments concern the rules of the trade mark law relating to international trade marks. Our country, together with other EU countries, is part of the Stockholm text of the Protocol to the Madrid Agreement. However, as from 31 October 2015, only the Protocol shall apply to all Contracting States of the Madrid Union. As a result, the Madrid Agreement is empty and the Madrid system is essentially a single contractual system. This is the reason why the rules on international trade marks are merged into a single chapter, eliminating the existing double regulation. The SZNH, which is competent and competent in industrial property matters, is an electronic administration body under the Electronic Administration Act. In the light of the provisions of the EU General Data Protection Regulation, the Fundamental Law and the Information Law, the proposal complements industrial property laws by broadening the scope of data to be required in applications submitted to the SZNH. In the course of last year, amendments to the intellectual property sector laws were made in order to apply the General Administrative Regulation Act from 1 January 2018 to intellectual property rights proceedings before the SZTNH. The proposal clarifies the scope of the rules of the General Administrative Regulation on industrial property rights, patent and use models, topography and design rights, as well as the rules applicable in the procedures relating to trademarks and geographical indications. It complements the rules of the Patent Act and the Application Model Law with the provisions on the obligation to communicate to the European Commission the national patent and model of use applications relating to nuclear energy, subject to the applicable provisions of the Euroatom Treaty, the EU General Data Protection Regulation and the Information Act. The bill was widely consulted in the context of social consultation. The AmCham Chamber of Commerce, the Hungarian Bar Association, the Hungarian Association for the Protection of Law and Copyright, the Hungarian Trademark Association, the Hungarian Patent Chamber of Officials, the United Nations-IP Hungarian Group. The comments received in the course of social consultation have also contributed to the development of more effective legislation that can be better applied in practice. Dear House, The adoption of the bill described above is necessary both to comply with obligations arising from the law of the European Union and to speed up and harmonise trade mark procedures. Its adoption is also essential for the fulfilment of the obligation laid down in the e-Justice Act and the data protection requirements. It contributes to stimulating innovation, boosting the national economy and improving the situation of market participants. I therefore ask that, after discussing it, you support the bill with your consent. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-03-177	Thank you very much. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Charles Becsó, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Industrial property protection is a legal institution providing legal protection for the distinction between goods and services and marks for technical works. One of the specific areas of civil law is the protection of industrial rights, which includes the following types of works: patterns of use, designs, inventions, varieties of plants and various indications, such as trade marks and geographical indications. The trade mark is the most important type of indication. The trade mark as an indication allows for the distinction between certain goods and services from other goods and services. The distinctive nature of trade marks is based on competition between competitors and consumer orientation and choice between goods and services. The trade mark creates the link between the goods and their manufacturer, the service and its performer. The trade mark thus expresses the origin and origin of the goods, services, as it binds the goods and services to a specific company. The mark also has a role in the indication of quality. While it is not a legal guarantee to the consumer of the constant good quality of goods and services, the relationship between the trade mark and its proprietor makes it of fundamental interest to ensure and maintain the good quality of goods covered by the trade mark. The functions linked to the trade mark may be fulfilled only by means of legal protection, the trade mark. The trade mark shall give the proprietor the exclusive right to use the trade mark. In the absence of this exclusive right of use, the trade mark would not be capable of indicating, distinguishing, expressing quality and carrying out other economic functions based on the origin of the goods. Our existing trade mark legislation is based on Annex XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Vt.'. Ladies and gentlemen, They demonstrate the importance of the trade mark in the field of economic life, which is why its legislation is emphasised. The T/1659. The main issue of the bill is the Vt. The aim is to ensure the coherence of industrial property legislation. The Vt. This is justified by four circumstances. Its primary task is for the legislator to comply with its obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from a directive established by the European Union within the framework of a trade mark reform. Secondly, on the basis of feedback from professional organisations, it has become necessary to amend the rules on trade mark proceedings in order to meet the needs of the case law and to introduce a more efficient and rapid procedure for the benefit of customers. In the context of the review of the Vt., the specifics and developments of the international legal framework governing international trade marks had to take place in order to settle the national rules on interconnection, resulting in their settlement in a single chapter. The most efficient method of convenient, quick handling is electronic administration. In this spirit, the law on electronic administration was also adopted earlier. The proposal makes the necessary changes to the details necessary for the performance of the tasks set out in that Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State presented us with detailed rules and justifications. I do not wish to repeat these. The draft before us is supported by the Fidesz Group, because it is well-thought-out proposals agreed with professional organisations. I ask you to support the bill with your constructive comments and votes. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[20.50]]
u2018-10-03-179	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This legislative proposal is much easier to deal with than the previous ones, especially the first one. On a global scale, the damage caused by the various trade mark counterfeiting and product counterfeiting organizations to the production and services organisations is estimated at USD 176 billion per year, with a 50% share of China's share. Practically speaking, it can be said that there is an amazing-sized illegal production of products and services in the world, after which the legislator is practically always running, as it is trying to continuously establish a set of rules and a monitoring system to try to curb these naughty, harsh attacks. It is therefore only natural that the European Commission's organisations for this purpose have, for many years, consulted themselves and professional organisations to finally establish the 2015/2436 which entered into force on 12 January 2016. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is practically what this legislation is trying to do, and by amending existing legislation, this extended legislation is being complied with. It is always very rewarding when Hungary and the European Union are now taking the lead in suppressing such illegal, worldwide activities, but unfortunately we always see that illegal activities are always more ingenious and try to avoid the rules. It is very helpful in this proposal for a rule that it is indeed significantly more detailed, extends the procedures and also simplifies them. With this legislation, after negotiating EU standards, we are fulfilling our obligation to harmonise legislation. Trademark procedures will be more efficient, faster and more customer-friendly. Electronic administration has become practically necessary, as it is now the ruler of the administration system everywhere. Social and technological changes have already justified the need to adapt industrial property laws to new challenges, which this legislation also responds to. It is very good to remove the obligation of graphic representation, which has already hindered the preservation of electronic works to be protected. It regulates the absolute and relative grounds of exclusion in very detail and in a tailor-made way, and it establishes a system which, once again, we hope to benefit stakeholders. It is also very good that the rights to use trade names are removed from trademarks in the name use, so they do not enjoy an advantage. Then it makes the rules for the use of the trade mark more transparent. It is also very good that it regulates the designation and classification of goods and services in a new system. The rules of collective and certification marks are also much more transparent, clear and clear. The renewal, as well as the opposition, cancellation and termination procedures, are also virtually adapted to today's living conditions and to the experience gained since the previous regulation. In view of all this, of course, Jobbik's group supports this law with its vote in favour, and I consider that this may be one of the pieces of legislation that we will discuss least with the governing parties and with representatives of the government. Thank you.
u2018-10-03-181	Thank you very much. Congressman András Aradski, lead speaker for KDNP, is next.
u2018-10-03-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Lords of Records, Here, in the late evening, we have a draft legislation for compliance of a seemingly legal nature, the backbone of which is 1997 on trade marks and the application of geographical indications. CHAPTER XI It contains an amendment to law, mainly because, as has been said earlier, there has been a trade mark reform in the European Union, a legal codification of the regulation of the trade mark, on the basis of which the powers are clarified, and on the basis of which regulations such as the Madrid Agreement have failed to make sense. It harmonises the regulation of the use of European trademarks, and in this context the EU legislation also provides for harmonisation, which the government will start by submitting this proposal, and hopefully the Hungarian Parliament will comply with its legal harmonisation obligation by adopting the proposed bill. This Directive entered into force on 12 January 2016 and, as Mr Secretary of State said, by the beginning of 2019, the Hungarian trade mark legislation must be harmonised with the directive established in the framework of the EU trade mark reform. What I see is that the regulation looks further at closely harmonised requirements, gives comprehensive regulation not only to the trade mark, but also to other industrial property protection rules associated with it, thus facilitating the conduct of trade mark proceedings, eliminating the negative experience of the case law so far, making trade mark proceedings more harmonious, easier to carry out and clarifying the system of concepts existing in the regulation. I consider it important that the facilitation covers a wider understanding and applicability of electronic administration, which states that otherwise these fine-tuning amendments make electronic contact mandatory not only for customers but also for the National Intellectual Property Office. I believe that the regulation, overall, serves a comprehensive and very important economic purpose. For the sake of interest only, I would like to indicate that our trademark law in force entered into force in 1997, but the first Hungarian trademark law was in force from 1890 and, in fact, the original trademark law was in force for 80 years until 1970. It is also interesting that there is an 1875 XXXVII. Our law, the commercial law, which still has provisions in force to this day, and it is no coincidence that the trademark law of 1890, as the first Hungarian trademark regulation, came into force when the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian industry and the Hungarian production process needed most to regulate an indication such as the trademark, which is an indication institution. Without it, we might not know the Törley Champagne, the Hunyadi János water, and the Singer sewing machine, because they were registered when this regulation was born. The trademark itself, many do not deal with it, but it is a very important legal, industrial property protection, intellectual product protection and trust category, because it guarantees confidence, a quality of the goods and services in which the customer and the buyer can trust. This trust is very difficult to obtain, but it is easy to play this trust by providing goods or services of insufficient quality, and it is therefore very important that, since there are no borders and no other limits for globalisation, it is very important that this type of trade mark regulation can respond to the challenge of a very high level of trademark infringement and its high level of damage. I very much hope that the proposal presented, in line with the European Union's creation, will be suitable for this very important task of legal policy and economic policy, and that the applicability of the Hungarian trade mark will also become better, more European and more marketable. [[21.00]] I must add that, as the Secretary of State has said, what kind of professional consultation has taken place, it is hoped that this professional consultation has been able to serve the merits of the bill, and in view of this, in addition to these, I propose that the debate be carried out and that the detailed debate be carried out and that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-03-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2018-10-03-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address to my colleague before me the fact that you have also spoken about social consultation, and that you have also done so with regard to specific legislation, which is basically for legal harmonisation; social consultation is an extremely innovative thing. Here we are discussing two government referrals here at the end of the otherwise long day. I would also recommend the use of this on other issues, and I would recommend that the wallet be used several times. I understand that, by the way, you consider it an important right among the Members' rights to be able to present anything, but there are many suspicions in opposition Members that there are often individual Members who are presenting something of yours, by the way, to encourage the wallet to circumvent these social consultations. But in general, I said this as an introduction, obviously in the specific case, if they have happened, they are very fortunate and important. In particular, they are very good if the comments made there were included in the material at the end. Obviously, such proposals for harmonisation are often supported by the opposition. There are, of course, a few more questions that we may be able to ask, and I hope that we will be able to think about at a later stage or in a detailed debate. I'd like to highlight one of these things that might come up. One intention is specifically to speed up trade mark procedures and to shorten such procedures. International experience shows that, on average, one such procedure goes down in five months, this may take roughly twice as much time for us, and practically two and a half months in the course of the proceedings is actually due to the fact that the determining authority may request a hearing in a situation, such as a registration procedure for an application, where this is not necessarily justified. So I would like to say that if the intention is to speed up, for example, in this regard, it is worth considering whether this is necessary in this way, in this form. Development and innovation will always be served by similar proposals, and, as Andrea Varga-Damm said, there must always be new challenges for industry, as well as for stakeholders and, of course, for the legislator. So I think that in the coming years we will be discussing similar issues here in Parliament. This type of proposal can be used for harmonisation, but I think that the entire policy of the government should be carried over by the intention of development and innovation to take forward the issue of our country and bring about development in the country. It was not all about this, and I would like to mention very briefly here that it is certainly not for innovation if the research institutes of the MTA are lost and, let us say, they want to manage it in a state-controlled way. József Pálinkás, who was your representative for a long time, also led the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that Hungary spends very little on innovation and research and development in proportion to its GDP. The state itself spends 0.3 percent of the total national product in this area. There is much more EU spending and corporate or private spending in this respect. So if we rethink such issues in terms of harmonisation, I think it is good to put them on the table even at this late hour that, by the way, we should devote much more to research and development and innovation from the Hungarian budget. So not only is it important to provide the framework or to provide protection where appropriate, it is also a very important issue, obviously industrial property protection should progress with age, we need to amend the legislation, we understand, of course, it is okay, of course it is important, we have comments, and in this context the detailed debate will also be an important part of this process. At the same time, I would like to say that the whole policy of the government should be that we really want to serve our citizens with our country's development. If there is no real competition, if the individual players do not believe that it makes sense to develop in real competition and to register developments where appropriate, then there will be a very big problem with the country in the long term if the environment is not so resourceful. So please consider what I have said in the long term, and I can say, among other things, that we are obviously looking forward to a detailed debate, and then we will try to establish our final position with our group. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-03-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[For signal:]] It says no. The amendment proposals, Honourable Parliament, will be available on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Mr Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, spoke after the agenda, with a title entitled The Education of the SNI Children. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-186	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dedicate today's speech to the year of families, to show who the families left behind in the year of families, who would need most public help, do not receive these help that the state should otherwise provide. I'd like to start with a citizen's letter. The only way I could get my nine-year-old, sound, autistic son to school in Debrecen in the only institution where there is an autistic department is that the expert committee gave me three days to find an address in Debrecen, so the school can only pick it up. This is because there is no other school in Hajdú County that could care for such a child that could educate such a child. He goes on, he says we started first class last year, the lady solved the problem, and then his little boy, who hasn't spoken yet, started talking. After that, the logotherapist, which is otherwise required by the law as a mandatory autism-specific development, was not insured by the school. Another problem for this man, who was left behind by the Hungarian government in the year of the families, is that he has to go twice the twenty kilometers from the village of Hajdú county near Debrecen every day, which is needed for schooling. It costs him 1700 forints a day, the care fee is 53,000 forints a day. The two numbers, I suppose, can be compared. The fact is that we have heard a lot of these stories, there are a lot of stories that show that families raising children with special needs have not been sufficiently supported by the government. One of the biggest problems is, and in which I will live with a law-modifying body, that in public institutions, schools where the statutes state that they are receiving a child with an SNI, there is no appropriate number of medical teachers, there is no development, and there is simply no preparation for such a school to receive such children in any way, but they have just been written in the articles of association. I would like to add that there was a citizen who told me that he had started preschooling his three-and-a-half-year-old child, but he had to change institutions immediately, because the kindergarten teachers couldn't do anything about the child; it was a kindergarten where he was also in the charter to have children with SNI. They wanted to send him to a separate room, and they wanted to take care of the anesthesia separately. I will go on and this will be part of my legislative proposal: teachers' assistants must be in the class, and parents must be allowed into the nursery at the time of speaking, as these children need more time to get used to such a new institution. [[21.10]] It should also be said that schools and kindergartens reject many parents for completely pointless reasons. A lot of times, the school district center doesn't have anything to say, and the notary has to wander around with the various state agencies. We received requests from several citizens in 2018, in the year of the families, on October 3rd, that until now, the school district has not been able to identify which school is suitable for his autistic child. This is the case for other SNI children. Simply because the district has nothing to say, the notary is confused, and the schools where it was in the charter are not prepared to receive such children. In addition, and it is a personal experience that in Szombathely, for example, there is a living room with autistic children and adults. There's a small bus from the county and Kasul, Répcelak and Kőszeg for the children. His van broke down at this facility. If your van fails, then for three weeks, until the municipality settles this from some special framework, it is not possible to simply solve the transport of children from the county. The fact is that there are currently counties in Hungary, where there is one or zero educational institution in the year of families where children with SNI can be received. What I started from the beginning is that the lady had to change her address in order for her child to be able to participate in a legally guaranteed fundamental right that shows that there is no emphasis on children with SNI in Hungary. This could be done with very little money, with a few amendments to the law it would be manageable, and it would not cost more than, say, about a county-righted city stadium. I will put in a legislative amendment on this in the days, in the coming weeks, and I will, of course, ask the pro-government representatives and the opposition to support it, and finally, in the year of families, let us deal with those who need to be dealt with most. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-03-187	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech after the agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-10-03-188	Mr President, Dear House, The newest stage of my series on the Calvary of Currency Authentics is based on real experiences that I personally experienced. In the event of eviction to which we are invited, you can not only gain insight into amazing human fates, but also into typical Hungarian life situations, whose legal regulation could prevent a number of problems. This week we were with a Hungarian worker in his 50s, who had been working as a pilot. He suffered a stroke, and, fortunately, because of his non-lifelong health loss, he was able to get back to work after a year's recovery. We're talking about a new earning citizen who's willing to pay off his debt. The lucky situation was that he was now able to get some sort of a six-month extension for all of this. In many cases, however, the proposal for a 60-month or 100-month instalment is rejected. Thus, human fates are completely meaningless, for it can be seen that if a fellow citizen has been able to come back to the productive sphere and get back to work, then perhaps he should be allowed the little air needed, if not to restore his original state, but to build his own life as a tax-paying citizen. Indeed, situations typically occur when our fellow citizens living in municipal dwellings accumulate similar, so because of health damage, they would like to and could repay in instalments. In such cases, however, it is a recurring problem that the settlement's citizens' square rejects the application for this and a kilo-printing occurs. I don't want to drag out requests for new payments for 20-30 years in a chain reaction either, but I would definitely consider it close to human if, in the case of the first such request, some kind of automaticism could enter the system, and the citizen who is in trouble would receive some sort of relief, as a guarantee of air security, and it would be clear that there is a helping hand to which he can turn. After all, the family helper often tries to help, in this case, the family supporter in Obuda was excellent in his work, but in other cases his activities are limited to informing the family that children should not be at home at the time of eviction, because if they are at home, then the social services will take them away. Obviously, more extensive assistance could be provided. We also see that, while half a million properties are vacant in Hungary, and many of these are state or municipal owned, several indications have been made that Hungarian families, who have already been evicted or are in a difficult situation, move into vacant properties, but not as arbitrary bookers, but with the owner's knowledge. Yet, in many cases, the owner knew and agreed either that they had been vegan or that they had been evicted. I do not say that the empty property should be used in this way, so moving from the street to the real estate, but I say that the survey of this empty stock, and let's say that if only 10 percent of it were to be renovated and brought back to Hungarian life, families could find a place here in crisis situations, at least temporary help. It is also a recurring problem at a self-government level that, in the case of a fixed-term municipal lease contract, when this contract expires, the family can pay even if it is multi-childish and good living, but they tell it to leave. In such cases, there is no established system of procedures. Thus, any self-employed, well-behaved and bona fide tenant family can find themselves in a situation where they have to find a solution in a month or two. We therefore need to develop certain solutions as part of a home-building programme. Finally, the most difficult situation may be the inhabitants of the crisis hostels. We are talking about families, family seeds, or, let's say, a mother and child fleeing an emergency, who in many cases have a 10-day deadline to leave this crisis center, a crisis hostel. And if you can't figure out in 10 days how insanely short a time it is to settle your situation, then the child can also be taken away by Social Services. So it is clear that we have the opportunity to intervene at a number of points, but I believe that we have a duty to intervene directly at these points. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-03-189	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. I'm closing the meeting. Good night, everyone.
