u2018-05-08-0	Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome the participants of the inaugural Parliamentary Assembly. I open the inaugural session of the new Parliament following the elections of Members of Parliament in 2018. Please, let's sing our National Anthem together. [[The people in this room sing the Anthem together. After that, the people in the room will take their seats. The representatives of DK shall not be present in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, On the basis of the Act on Parliament, the representatives elected in the general election of the Members and the national minority advocates who set up the list of nationalities which do not take up the mandate shall submit their credentials to the President of the Republic prior to the inaugural meeting of the Parliament. The credentials have been taken over by my colleagues in the last few days. I declare that, in accordance with the law, 199 Members and 12 ethnic spokespersons submitted their credentials until the inaugural session. Dear Parliament, The House Rule of Decision 7. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, until the announcement of the establishment of the House Committee, the inaugural meeting shall be chaired by the interim president. I now call on Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács to act as interim president. I would like to announce that I have made the credentials submitted to me for the purpose of examining the mandate of the interim president and the date-bookers. The session will be handed over to Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács, interim president.
u2018-05-08-1	Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome the participants of the inaugural Parliamentary Assembly. I open the inaugural session of the new Parliament following the elections of Members of Parliament in 2018. Allow me, too, to welcome the inaugural Parliament after President of the Republic. I declare that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, the notary functions until the election of the officials are performed by eight of the youngest representatives - Ungár Péter Károly, Nacsa Lőrinc, Dúró Dóra, Bősz Anett, Farkas Gergely, Bana Tibor, Barcza Attila and Stummer János. Based on this, I ask Tibor Balla and Anett Bősz to help me lead the meeting. [[Tibor Bana and Anett Bősz occupy their notary seats.]] Dear Parliament, According to tradition, after the opening of the meeting, the interim president also shares some thoughts with the present and everyone who listens to us. With love and respect, I welcome the President of the Republic, with respect to the Prime Minister, my fellow Members and all our guests. On 8 April this year, we held a free, clean parliamentary election in Hungary, and the people and the people of the country made a decisive decision in this election. This was a clear and clear position in the direction of putting Hungary's defence and security first, and this protection and security is a guarantee to the vast majority on the basis of the government so far. Dear House, I am aware that I myself have experienced a few times that being a loser in a parliamentary election is a very difficult situation. It is difficult to acknowledge, especially when there is a heightened atmosphere when there are unfounded expectations. It's natural, I must say, to try to make amends in some way. I am now asking my honourable fellow Members, who are present to be partners today at this solemn sitting, to try to get through this solemn sitting so that we can say at the end that we have been formed, that we have been formed as it is worthy of the Hungarian Parliament. Dear House, Once again, I understand if there's discontent in those who have the results not what they expected. But what can no longer be understood - and I ask you to be partners in this too - is that if you try to appeal to foreign authorities, if you try to file petitions in places that are directed against your own government, Hungary. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Come on!]] Don't do it, and that's my request to the parties, my request to the politicians, don't do it and don't let it go. Dear House, There was a joyful part of this election, a part that many of us can be proud of. [[10.20]] The Hungarian countryside took a clear position. After so many years and after so many very difficult periods, the Hungarian countryside decided to vote for a good future. Very firmly, precisely in the regions where the life-nice is far from what we would like today, it is not yet the case in these areas that prosperity is the one that led the hands when their votes were cast, but the hope; the hope they had to experience, and the hope in which they believe that the coming years can be spent. It's a responsibility to all of us. This entails responsibility for the majority and responsibility for the minority. In the coming years, we will have to pay more and much more attention to those regions, the Hungarian landscapes that will still need much, much more help. Dear House, I have a joyful experience, I must say, that I have experienced a particularly joyful situation. After a long, long time, for the first time I had to experience that the idea of God, home, family was no longer a simple slogan, not a party's advertising text, but an idea. It has become an idea that, I believe, can give guidance to the future government and give guidance to all of us. I would like us all to share in this spirit and in this kind of agreement, hopefully at the moment, and to consider country building as our common cause. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the agenda for the inaugural session. This was all received in the courier post and published on the parliamentary website. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The National Election Committee will be chaired by the President of the National Election Committee on the activities of the National Election Committee in the election of Members of Parliament in 2018 B/1. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. I give the floor to Dr. Andras Patyi, president of the National Election Commission, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2018-05-08-2	Mr President of the Republic. Mr. President! Public rights dignitaries! Excellent Ladies and Gentlemen! Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. According to the law, as chairman of the National Election Committee, it is my duty, after the elections, to report to Parliament on the work of the Committee in the election. In accordance with this obligation, I have prepared and submitted to the Parliament a written report. I will give a detailed account of the first instance and appeal of the committee's activities, the decisions, the experience, everything that we have done. For me, the law does not provide an independent legislative initiative, so, following the traditions of public law, I have also summarized the subjects where experience shows that a legislative amendment is necessary. The very narrow five-minute time frame for the oral presentation does not allow a detailed description of the report or the proposals for amendments, but I would like to present it with some figures. The general election for 2018 took place in a well-known and predictable legislative environment for electoral participants, as there has not been any serious legislative amendment in recent years. As a result of the delegation, the NVB has done an extraordinary amount of work for nearly 30 people. From 11 January to 4 May, the Committee held 41 meetings, i.e. an average of two and a half meetings a week, but, for example, only 16 meetings in March. A total of 942 decisions were taken in the context of the electoral procedure and 4 guidelines were issued. At the beginning of the work, a total of 100 parties and 13 national minority self-governments, a total of 113 organisations, were registered as nominating organisations. By comparison, this was 84 in 2014. Even now, the greatest work force was to deal with appeals against decisions on individual candidacy, as a very large number of voters wanted to start. In the end, 1794 people were legally registered as candidates. Up to the deadline, 40 party lists and 13 ethnic lists were initiated. All ethnic lists have been registered, 22 of the party lists, 18 of them have been rejected. In 6 cases, the Curia upheld the decision of the NVB, but changed the decision of the NVB in relation to 2 refusals. A significant part of the work was also the assessment of remedies for violations of electoral campaign rules. In addition to the 55 first instance decisions, 111 appeals were brought by the Committee. Among the issues of redress, the election posters have been given an important role, like those of four years ago. In the early part of the campaign, the editorial practice of municipal editions, most of them free, large editions of the periodicals, was also highlighted. A significant number of appeals have been lodged against decisions establishing the results of the single constituency. Four years ago, five of these appeals were brought to the NVB, now 131 requests, 129 appeals and 2 objections were dealt with by the committee. So, twenty-six times more than four years ago. A large number of applications contested the results with the same content. In one case, the committee changed its decision to establish the OEVB result, but it did not become a new winner, and two additional votes had to be put in a good place in the minutes. In the other appeals, the majority of the NVB took the view that they did not refer to any violation of the law or to any evidence which would at least at the level of the likelihood that the infringements committed in determining the result would have been justified. Following the rise of individual results and the result of the letter vote, the national list result of the election was established on 27 April. 5 applications were made in court against this decision, one of which was rejected by the Curia without a substantive examination. Out of the 10 285 polling districts, the court ordered the recalculation of the list votes in four polling districts, changing the NCB's decision on the national list voting result. The change to the minutes did not result in any change in the allocation of mandates. The Curia explained that the annulment of the election results and the repetition of the vote in the list election should only take place if the infringement has an impact on the distribution of mandates. However, none of the applicants alleged such an infringement. The national result on the list rose to the legal force on 3 May, following the decisions of the Curia. In addition, requests against the same NVB decision have been dealt with in various orders by various Councils of Curia, so that an order which upholds the NCB's decision and three which partially upholds it but slightly amends it in terms of the number of votes is currently in force. Dear Parliament, On the following topics, I asked the Honourable Parliament to consider the amendment of the law. I'm just giving you a list of subjects. Detailed rules for the reception of voters who vote on the transfer, so that the voter's line can be avoided. The centralised role of the NVB in all administrative matters carries a procedural risk in the context of keeping the time limits for assessment. In connection with the delegation of the members of the electoral committees, the Curia has extended the delegation option by interpretation under unchanged legal rules; there is a need for clear legislation. I consider it still necessary to review the institution of the plural recommendation. The regional electoral committees and TVs should participate once again in the electoral procedure of the Members of Parliament. There is a need for clarification in the campaign to regulate the posters. I propose that the NVB have the competence to initiate the constitutional and the rule-control initiative of the Constitutional Court and of the Curia. The most serious penalty for the electoral procedure - the annulment or repetition of some or all of the procedure - requires a more precise cut-off due to conflicting Mansion practice. Following the vote, it is necessary to establish clearly the rules governing the issue of a new mandate instead of the mandates of the Members who have resigned before the result becomes legally effective. I propose that the principle of the public be better respected in the course of judicial decisions. I propose that a single special, higher-ranking board of the Curia and judicial council be set up to carry out the judicial review of electoral decisions, as is the case with the municipal council. Dear Parliament, Thanks to the high quality and efficient work of the electoral bodies, the general election of the Members of Parliament in 2018 was effectively conducted in accordance with the current legal provisions. [[10.30]] As President of the NVB, I therefore express my thanks to all the members and staff of all the electoral bodies involved in the successful conduct of the election. I would particularly like to thank the members of the National Election Committee for their work, their capacity to carry out the great burden. For the work of elected representatives and advocates in the interests of public and nationality [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I wish you good strength and good luck on behalf of the NVB. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept my report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-05-08-3	Dear Parliament, Next, the president of the National Election Office will be B/2 on the organisation and administration of state tasks related to the election of Members of Parliament held on 8 April 2018. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. I give the floor to Dr. Ilona Pálffy, president of the National Election Office, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2018-05-08-4	Mr President of the Republic. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. There is a five-minute time for the President of the National Election Office to keep his report, so I cannot inform you in detail, of course, of the conduct of the electoral procedure, of the ballots, of the votes at the foreign representations, of the electoral informatics, and I would therefore like to present, within the time frame available, the most important legislative amendments that we have written and said four years ago, but I think it is absolutely necessary to amend them. This is the extension of the election period. Based on the experience of the parliamentary elections so far, the deadline for sending and returning voting ballots in the letter is extremely limited, so I suggest that the deadline before the election procedure should be set a few days further here, leaving sufficient time to ensure that the reply envelopes sent by post can be safely returned from further areas. According to our records, 4938 letter covers arrived late back to us. Secondly, I believe that it is necessary to clarify the rules on the vote on letters and to make it clear what constitutes a valid reply envelope. More than ever has been reported in relation to the verification of recommendations for copying and forgery of recommendation sheets. Election offices do not have the possibility to verify the authenticity of signatures using the signature pattern of voters, it is not possible to detect falsified recommendations in the electoral procedure. Cases of fraud can be clarified in criminal proceedings, but these procedures take time. In view of this, I consider the refining of the recommendation system and the setting of time limits for criminal proceedings in line with the marking rules. A large number of last-minute roll-call applications, sign-overs and mobile ballots may be significantly delayed, resulting in several national elections that all local election offices had to wait until late nights to start printing the roll-books. Therefore, I propose that the deadline for the submission of the roll-list applications be moved from the current 16 hours to 12 hours. Dear Parliament, It can be said that due to the current rules of the Rules of Procedure, the biggest problem in the polling rooms receiving re-entry voters was the multi-hour queue in 2018 but already in 2014. Due to the line after 19 hours, which takes place under the guidelines of the NVB, information on election results shall not be made public until the last voter in the polling room has cast his vote. The transfer is becoming more popular, so it is no longer 5-6 thousand, but 10-12 thousand voters voting in the most crowded polling rooms. The rules on the polling premises to be designed for the transferors must be amended. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, administrative errors that did not affect the outcome of the election also occurred in this election, for example, in some cases the ballot counting committees entered the votes of certain lists in the wrong box when completing the minutes. These errors have been corrected in the context of the appeal. However, it can be concluded that in the general election of Members of Parliament in 2018, the state tasks were legally carried out in accordance with Hungary's Fundamental Law and the law. This is supported by the OSCE's preliminary proposal, which, I quote, has enjoyed general trust among stakeholders at all levels, and their work has generally been considered impartial. In addition, the NVB and NVI fulfilled their mandate, conducted the elections in a professional and transparent manner at all levels, usually following the prescribed deadlines. - Quote completed. Finally, I would also like to thank more than 22 000 civil servants, state officials, civil servants, members of all electoral bodies and electoral committees involved in the preparation, organisation and conduct of the vote, whose work contributed to the successful conduct of the election. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept my report. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-05-08-5	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Rules of Procedure 11. The Parliament shall decide on the accounts on the basis of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure without debate after the taking of an oath. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for an examination of the term of office. We will examine the regularity of the credentials of Members and spokespersons on the basis of the electoral documents, together with the date-bookers, acting as a body for the examination of mandates. Dear Parliament, The House Rule of Decision 8. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Article, the first five representatives of the register, Péter Ágh, Balázs Ander, István Apáti, András Aradszki and Gergely Arató, shall examine the credentials of the age president and the date notes. The board is now formed. I'd like the members of the board, along with the clerks, to go to the Szacsvay room from the Dome Hall. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 20-minute recess for the term of office. (Sunning: 10.38 - 11.) 08 Prime Minister: Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Notaries: Dóra Dúró and Péter Károly Ungár)
u2018-05-08-6	Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró and Péter Károly Ungár will continue to assist me in the leadership of the meeting. I declare that the Bureau has completed its proceedings. We will now continue our work with the mandate certificate. I would like to ask Mr Péter Ágh to present the results of the examination of the term of office of the interim president and the date-bookers.
u2018-05-08-7	Dear Parliament, On the basis of the electoral documents, the first five representatives of the register examined the credentials of the interim president and the date-bookers. He found all of these to be legal. On this basis, we recommend to the Parliament that the term of office of the interim president and of the notaries be verified. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-05-08-8	Dear Parliament, The Governing Board, assisted by the staff of the National Election Office, examined all credentials and electoral documents submitted to the President of the Republic. The Panel concluded that all of these were in compliance with the law. The seats shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. It is now time for the inaugural session to be decided by the first vote on the machine. Before that, we will carry out a presence check, taking into account technical reasons. Please make sure that your voting card is placed in the voting machine and pressed one of its buttons. [[It's happening. The result will appear on the display: 179 is present, 20 is away.]] I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, Given the significant number difference we just saw, I'm asking you to press the button again. [[It's happening. The result appears on the display: 188 is present, 11 is away.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. I propose to the Parliament that, by its decision, it justify the mandate of the Members of Parliament and of the Speakers. Please vote by clicking the button. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of the Members and Spokespersons by 189 votes in favour, zero against and zero abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask Dóra Dúró and Károly Ungár to present a list of certified representatives and advocates. Péter Ágh Balázs Ander Dr. István Apáti Dr. András Aradski Gergely Arató Dr. István Bajkai György Balla Tibor Mihály Balla Zoltán Balog Tibor Bana Ildikó Bangóné Borbély Erik Bánki Gábor Bányai Elemér Attila Barcza Mónika Éva Bartos Dr. Károly Becsó Csaba Zsolt Becsó János Bencsik Judge Mark B. László Nagy Sándor Bodó Happy István Zoltán Bóna László Böröcz Ambrus ♪ You're gonna be all right, Dr. Brenner Koloman Sándor Burány György Czerván Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyiné Antal Csárdi Zsolt Csenger-Zalán Peter Cseresnyés Katalin Cöbör Béla Dankó Márta Demeter Zoltán Demeter Csaba Dömötör Mónika Dunai Dóra Dúró Flórian Farkas Gergely Farkas Mr Sándor Farkas Dr. Sándor Fazekas Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi Mihály Dr. János Fónagy Vilmos Sándor Font László Földi Dr. Fülöp Erik Sándor Attila Gelencsér Dr. György Gémesi András Zsolt Gréczi Dr. Gulyás Gergely Winner Mrs Gulyás dr. Gurmai Zita Tünde Ádám Gyopáros Alpár Balázs Gyöngyösi Márton Balázs Győrffy Ferenc Gyurcsány Dr. Ákos Hadházy Sándor Hadházy László Hajdu János Halász Dr. Tamás Bellozó Dr. János György Hargitai Pál Harrach Gézan's Violinist Loránt Hey, David, Adam. Dr. Csaba Csaba Károly Hende Herczeg Tamás József Dr. István Hiller Ferenc Hirt Impressive Dezső Dr. Péter Tamás Hoppál István Horváth László Dezső Horváth Dr. Richard Hörcsik György Hubay István Jakab Mr Dénes Jakab Péter Dávid Janiczak Dr. Mária Kállai Ákos Kara Christmas Gergely New Year's Eve Dr. Kárpátine Dr. Hajnalka Juhász Lajos Kepli Dr. János Kerényi Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt Dr. Máté Sándor Kocsis Ferenc Koncz Dr. Károly Kontra Lajos Korózs Lajos Kósa Dr. József Kovács Dezső Mr Sándor Kovács Mr Sándor Kovács Dr. Zoltán Kovács Dr. László Fat Csaba Gábor Kubatov Ágnes Kunhalmi Dr. Imre László Dr. János Latorcai Miklós [[11.10]] Dr. János Lazarus Lezszak Sándor István L. Simon László Dr. László György Lukács Hungarian Zoltán Mr Vilmos Manninger Dr. Mátrai Mária Dr. Tamás Mellar Attila Csaba Mesterházy Adam Mirkóczki Dr. Ágnes Molnár Gyula Molnár Dr. Zsolt Molnár Krisztián József Attila Móring Nacsa Lőrinc Csaba Nagy Dr. István Nagy Németh Szilárd István Zsolt Attila Németh Dr. Zsolt Péter Nyitrai Dr. Lajos Oláh Dr. Viktor Orbán Péter Ovádi Károly Panczél Dr. Imre Pesti Tamás Pintér János Pócs Mr János Pogácsás Dr. László Pósán Árpád János Potápi Dr. Bence Máté Rétvári Tibor Máriusz Révész Lajos Rig Imre Ritter Gábor Riz Antal Rogán Dr. László Salacz Dr. Erzsébet Schmuck Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi Dr Zsolt Semjén Dr. Miklós István Seszták Dr. István Simicskó György Simonka Dr. Miklós Simon Balázs Simon Róbert Tamás Sneider Miklós Soltész Dr. Gábor Staudt Dr. Adam Steinmetz János Stummer János Süli Sándor Szabó Dr. Szabó Szabolcs Szabó Timea Dr. Tünde Szabó Zsolt Szabó László Szászfalvi Kristóf Szatmáry István Szávay Székely Sándor Dr. Wind Bernadett Peter Szijjártó György Szilágyi Dr. Lajos Szűcs András László Tállai Dr. Gergely Tapolczai József László Tasó Károly Tessely Zoltán Dr. Tiba István Csaba Dr. Attila Tilki József Tobias Bence Turdai Dr. Bertalan Tóth Csaba Tóth János Gábor Törő Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Dr. Bence Balázs Tuzson Károly Ungár Péter Dr. Ágnes Vadai Dr Varga-Damm Andrea Gábor Varga Dr. László Varga Mihály Varga Tamás János Vargha László Varju Vécsey László József Dr. Imre Vejkey Katalin Éva Veresné Novák László Vigh Dr. Winner Vinnai Dr. István Vitányi József Zsolt V. Németh János Volner Dr. Pál Völner Mihály Witzmann Dr. Zombor Gábor Zoltán Zsiga-Kárpát Dániel Gábor Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál Róbert Zsigó Vilmos Zsigó [[Before the roll call is completed, the representatives of DK shall enter the Chamber and take their seats.]]
u2018-05-08-9	The list of ethnic advocates is as follows: Varga Simeon Tamás Sianos József Szolga Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria Dr. Simani Silva Félix Wolf Kresta Trajan Giricz Vera Alexov Lyubomir Antal István Paulik Ms Kissné Köles Erika Supers Brigitta
u2018-05-08-10	Dear Parliament, It is now the solemn oath of the Members. Please stand to take the oath. [[The people present will stand up. The phantoms speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the presidential pulpit and requests permission from the early president to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, they march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags. The commander of the decorative guard will take his place before the pulpit.]] Dear House, Now I'm going to read the words of the oath. I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. Ich, Emmerich Ritter schwöre, dass ich Ungarn und seinem Grundgesetz treu sein, sine Rechtsnormen einhalten und für deren Einhaltung sorgen werde; dass ich meine Function als Nationalitätenabgeordneter zum Wohle der ungarischen Nation wahrnehmen werde. So wahr mir Gott helpe! [[DK's representatives, after taking the oath, add:]] With all my efforts, I will try to restore the republic and give the country a new democratic constitution. [[The representatives of DK shall leave the meeting room. It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, I ask that we ignore all that has happened and continue our festive session. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the new Parliament has been established by the oath of the Members. I would like to inform you that, after the inaugural sitting, the minority advocates will take an oath before the Speaker of Parliament. Dear Parliament, My further announcement is that a Member, Mr Ákos Hadházy, did not take the oath, and that he must be dealt with in accordance with the house rules. Dear Parliament, I declare that, pursuant to Article 20 (1) of the Fundamental Law and paragraph 2 (a) of the Fundamental Law, the mandate of the Government has ceased with the establishment of the newly elected Parliament. Under Article 22 (1) of the Fundamental Law, until the establishment of a new government, the Government shall remain in office, exercise all the rights enjoyed by the Government, but shall not recognise the binding effect of an international treaty, and may constitute a decree only on the basis of the explicit authorisation of the law, in an indeterminate case. Dear Parliament, I now call on President János Áder to give his speech.
u2018-05-08-11	[[He'll take his place on the speaker's stand. Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Mr. Speaker! Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, A month ago, on 8 April, the Hungarian electorate decided. They have decided who will be entrusted with public affairs for the next four years here in Parliament. They have decided who should be responsible for governance and who should be given the role of opposition. The electorate's decision must be respected by everyone. That's the basic rule of democracy. You have received a brief summary of the work of the National Election Committee and the National Election Office. The reports show that over a thousand appeals procedures were initiated during the election period. The electoral bodies, the Curia and the Constitutional Court have completed all procedures. The result of the parliamentary elections in 2018 is clear, clear and legally unquestionable. The legitimacy of the new Parliament and the future government is beyond any debate. Remember: on 8 April, before learning the results of the elections - seeing the high participation - the leaders of the parties now preparing to play a opposition role said so. Almost without exception, they said that high participation gives strong legitimacy to the next Parliament and government. Dear House, We often quote: the election is a celebration of democracy. On April 8th, many did much to make it so. Therefore, I would like to begin by thanking all our countrymen who participated in the election. Secondly, I would like to thank all those who helped in the electoral districts and electoral committees to carry out the vote and those who, in the course of the appeal proceedings, have assessed the objections submitted in a timely manner and thus ensured the conditions for the establishment of Parliament today. At the same time, it is worth considering the lessons of this election period. I propose three questions to the Honourable Parliament for consideration. First: I propose that the Legislative Committee of Parliament, together with the National Election Committee, review the experience of the electoral procedure, and, if it considers appropriate, propose to Parliament that the electoral procedural law be amended. Secondly, this year 23 parties made national lists; never before. The following figures reveal a great deal: 16 out of 23 parties did not reach 1 percent support, 15 did not even reach half a percent. The last ten players in the election competition received a total of slightly more than 22,000 votes. Each party setting up a national list received at least HUF 153 million in support. Unfortunately, based on previous experience, there is a chance that they will not be able to account for this. I therefore suggest that the Honourable Parliament consider whether we should not go back to the former regulation and prevent some from making a business out of the celebration of democracy. Thirdly, we all saw that on 8 April there were polling districts where the voters had to wait two or three hours to cast their votes. This is unacceptable. Therefore, on behalf of the State, I apologise to our fellow countrymen who are in such an unworthy situation, not measuring the responsibility of the legislator and of the legislator. At the same time, I thank them for waiting patiently, without sobs. For me, this responsible attitude has really made the parliamentary election of 2018 a celebration of democracy. Dear Parliament, According to Article 16 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the President of the Republic proposes the Prime Minister to the Parliament. After our meeting yesterday, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to establish the new government, who accepted the request. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] The President of the Republic shall propose the person of the Prime Minister to the Parliament. After our meeting yesterday, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to establish the new government, who accepted the request. (Applause in the pro-government benches. ) I therefore propose that the Parliament elect Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary on the basis of the basic rule cited above. Dear Parliament, Each election closes a period and opens a new one. The eighth freely elected Parliament no longer has to deal with issues such as the previous ones. It is no longer a question of how, after decades of communism, we should create a free, independent, democratic country, as well as whether Soviet troops will withdraw from Hungary. Joining NATO and the European Union is also behind us. I have new questions for you to answer. I offer three of these to your attention. All three go beyond the four years ahead. What kind of Europe do we want to live in? What challenges does the new world economic order hold for Hungary? How can we protect our natural and built environment for our children and grandchildren? When these questions are debated here in Parliament, sometimes you should recall Sir Winston Churchill's words: "The statesman is thinking of the next generation, the politician is only thinking of the next election. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, what kind of Europe do we want to live in? The issue is justified not only by Britain's intention to leave the Union, but also by the fact that some of the EU's leaders have lost their compass, but also by others, including the Western Balkan countries or Turkey. The lack of a clear vision, politicians who forget small debates, intellectual laziness, and familiar and repeated platitudes in the EU today characterize public life in the EU. [[11.30]] It would be worth returning to the thoughts of the founding fathers of the Union or of the large-scale statesmen of the past decades, such as Robert Schuman, who said in the second half of the '50s that the new Europe should not remain only an economic and technical undertaking. It needs the soul, the consciousness of its historical ties, the recognition of its responsibilities today and in the future, and the political will to achieve this human ideal. Our job is to recall Europe's Christian foundations by creating a democratic government model that evolves through reconciliation into a community of peoples living in freedom, equality, solidarity and peace, deeply rooted in Christian basic values. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Helmut Kohl understood the message of the founding fathers. More than 50 years later, it was as if he had just continued with the idea quoted earlier: "There is no alternative to the Europe of the Founding Fathers. We all need Europe, and not just here in Europe. We always have to ask the following questions: where do we come from, what have we achieved so far, what is the alternative, what else do we have to do? A European merger is the most effective protection against falling back to the 19th century. The evil chauvinism of the century. At the same time, Europe must not become some kind of centralised state, a European superstate. We don't want anything like the United States of America on European soil. We want a united, democratic, citizen-friendly, capable and federal Europe. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, In the international press, you can read that there are two revolutions in the world. One is the so-called infocommunication revolution, the other is the so-called climate revolution. The Hungarian economy also faces new challenges: digital economy, infocommunication, roboticisation, artificial intelligence. Twenty-eight years ago, when the first Parliament was formed, these issues were not addressed, but we did not even know these concepts. Today, the question is that in this race we will be on the side of the winners or losers. In Hungary, more than 15 percent of workers now work in the digital economy. Our children grow up in a world where today's smartphones transmit data hundreds of thousands of times faster than Apollo-11 communicates with the ground control center in 1969. Now I'm just offering you two questions. First, let us not forget that our children must not only be taught how to benefit from newer and newer technological opportunities, but also how to protect themselves from the dark side of the digital universe. The second question is: can we achieve the target set five years ago for at least 300 small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to enter the global market with a knowledge-based, intensive growth by 2020 and create at least a thousand innovative startup companies? In meeting Hungarian entrepreneurs, I can say with a calm heart that they have the talent, determination and innovative skills, diligence, preparedness and humility to succeed in this competition. They are worthy heirs of John Neumann, Tódor Kármán or Tivadar Puskás. Dear Parliament, Hungary's Fundamental Law, on which you swore an oath a few minutes ago, states: "We cultivate and preserve the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin. We take responsibility for our offspring, so we use our material, spiritual, and natural resources carefully to protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One of the most important questions of the years ahead is whether we will be able to increase our prosperity without taking away the resources we have used from our offspring, and at the same time we will pay back our debt to nature that we have accumulated in recent decades. In mankind's vast greed, he has taken more from nature than he had the right to in recent decades; more than nature can bear and replace. In the last 50 years alone, we have experienced more energy, more natural resources than in the previous history of mankind. I'm sure we can't go any further on this road. Two points from a set of problems that we all have to deal with over the coming years. The past decades have been developed, processed, used for a short period of time, and then thrown away by its approach. Can we change that? Is the waste considered to be waste or source of raw materials? And if we are ready for raw material, are we ready for the necessary technological change? A significant part of the world - against Europe - has a dramatic population explosion. The soil is decreasing and the quality of the existing ones is deteriorating. The amount of water per capita is decreasing - just one example. I'm not even gonna ask the questions anymore. There are 450 million people living in the Sahel area, where the desert is taking more and more land every day and there is less and less water, most of them in miserable conditions. The UN estimates that the population will double here by 2050. In just one lifetime, the number of inhabitants in this region will increase by as much as the total population of the European Union today. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, If you are interested in the moral, spiritual and philosophical issues of environmental sustainability, then I would like to remind you of the words of Pope Francis, who writes in his encyclical Laudato si, which says:. If man declares himself independent of reality and makes himself an absolute ruler, the foundation of his own existence will be collapsing, because man wrongfully replaces God, and thus ultimately promotes the rebellion of the nature he is rather oppressed than governed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your attention and for allowing me to share some of my thoughts with you, for the next four years, I would like to give you the same thing as I did four years ago, only four words that everyone can have with a good heart, although sitting on the right or left side of the parliamentary horseshoe, four words that warn us of loyalty, humility, common responsibility, which gives us standards and opens a political perspective; Ferenc Kölcsey's four words: "The Home in front of everything. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2018-05-08-12	I thank the President of the Republic for his words. Please stand and salute the national flag and historic flags. [[The commander of the decorative guard will step forward, and the flags will be used to signal the sound of the fanfares to leave the meeting room. The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 20-minute trial break for the submission and verification of signed oath documents. (Sunning: 11.41 - 12.11) Prime Minister: Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Notaries: Attila Barcza and Gergely Farkas)
u2018-05-08-13	Dear Parliament, I will be assisted by Attila Barcza and Gergely Farkas. The audit of the oath documents has been completed. I found that Congressman Ákos Hadházy did not take a valid oath, so the Act on Parliament was 28. § 3a shall not participate in the work of Parliament, i.e. at our sitting today, he shall not exercise his right to speak, to make a motion, to vote, to hold a parliamentary or committee office, to be elected as a committee member, and shall not be entitled to remuneration. I also announce to the Honourable Parliament that some have attached an annex to the official and legal text of the oath. The annex has naturally been ignored, as it is contrary to the oath. Dear House, The Fundamental Law and the Parliament Act provide for conflicts of interest with the office of representatives and advocates. I'd like to ask Gergely Farkas to make an announcement on the conflict of interest.
u2018-05-08-14	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that all Members and spokespersons have submitted statements of conflict of interest. Members of Erik Fülöp, György Gémesi, László Hajdu, Dávid Janiczak and Gergely Karácsony, as well as Dr. Silva, a representative of the nationalities, have stated that there is a conflict of interest in them, so they cannot exercise their rights arising from their mandate as advocates until it is terminated or until the termination is initiated, nor are they entitled to remuneration. Dear Parliament, I declare that all Members and advocates, apart from the Members who have just been listed, have made a negative declaration of conflict of interest, so that they can exercise their rights at today's Parliament meeting.
u2018-05-08-15	Dear Parliament, The National Election Committee President B/1 on the activities of the National Election Committee in the elections of the Members of Parliament in 2018. the decision of the accounts of the European Parliament and of the Council. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the President of the National Election Committee B/1. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the report by 134 votes in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next, the president of the National Election Office will be B/2 on the organisation and administration of state tasks related to the election of Members of Parliament held on 8 April 2018. the decision of the accounts of the European Parliament and of the Council. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the President of the National Election Office B/2. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the resolution by 134 votes to 51, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Allow me to express my thanks and thank the nearly 100,000 contributors who helped to organise and conduct the 2018 parliamentary elections successfully in the country. We can all be grateful for their devoted work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the parliamentary parties have formed their political group. The faction leaders of the house rule 12. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the group's name, the name of the group's leader and other officials and the list of members of the group were announced in writing. I would like to ask Attila Barcza to present the names, numbers and group leaders of the political groups that have been formed. [[12.20]]
u2018-05-08-16	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the leader of the 117 members of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance is Máté Kocsis. Member Márton Gyöngyösi is the leader of the 26-person group of the Jobbik Hungary Movement. (Applause) The leader of the 16-member group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is Congressman Péter Harrach. The leader of the 15 members of the Hungarian Socialist Party is Mr. Bertalan Tóth. The leader of the nine-member group of the Democratic Coalition is Mr. Ferenc Gyurcsány. The May Other is the leader of the 9-person political group of Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. The leader of the five-member group of the Dialogue for Hungary is Representative Szabó Timea.
u2018-05-08-17	Dear Parliament, The election of the Speaker of Parliament by secret ballot follows. The Act on Parliament 6. Pursuant to Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, the leaders of the political groups made a joint motion on the person of the Speaker. In view of this, S/3. In my proposal No.3 I initiated that Parliament elect Mr.László Kövér as Speaker of the House. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] The political group leaders have put forward a joint motion for the Speaker. In view of this, S/3. In my proposal No.3 I initiated that Parliament elect Mr.László Kövér as Speaker of the House. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. ) I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, an amendment to this cannot be tabled. The election of the Speaker shall be by secret ballot. Annex 1 to the Rules of Procedure contains the order of conduct of the secret ballot. I would like to ask attila Barcza and Gergely Farkas to present the most important information, and my fellow Members, with respect, to hear the presentation in their place.
u2018-05-08-18	Dear Parliament, The rules of the secret vote are as follows. During the vote, the chairman of Parliament and the voter counting committee shall act. Members can take the ballot in the Danube corridor, in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. The polling booths are located at the end of the corridor. During the voting period, only Members and voters may remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber.
u2018-05-08-19	Dear Parliament, Votes can only be taken on the official ballot paper. The candidate may be validly voted with two incisive lines placed in one of the squares next to his name. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the vote from which it cannot be established how the Member voted is invalid. The vote not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the vote sheet is taken by the Member but not thrown into the ballot box is void. If the Member has failed to fill out the ballot paper, he shall inform the notaries serving at the urn of this before the vote is cast, who shall include the corrupted ballot paper and replace it with a new one. Thank you.
u2018-05-08-20	Dear Parliament, According to the agreement prior to the inaugural meeting, the participants agreed that representatives of the factions from which no dater was included may participate in the determination of the outcome of the secret vote. I would ask Mr László Varga, member of the MSZP faction, to participate in the work of the ballot counting body. I would like to inform you that you have 20 minutes to vote. The opening and conclusion of the secret vote shall be indicated by the meeting room bell. I would ask my fellow Members to come to the table marked with a sign corresponding to the initial of their names, where they will receive the ballots. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the practice of previous formation meetings, you should take it with you and present your representatives' credentials before receiving the ballot. The ballot paper may be handed over against it. After that, the fact of the recording on the register will be confirmed by your signature. And now I'm ordering a 40-minute break. (Sunning: 12.21 - 13.14) Prime Minister: Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Notaries: Lőrinc Nacsa and János Stummer)
u2018-05-08-21	May I have your attention, please, my dear House. [[Take a few seconds.]] Dear Parliament, We will resume our session. Lőrinc Nacsa and János Stummer will continue to assist me in the leadership of the meeting. I'm announcing that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. It concluded that no event had taken place affecting the validity of the vote. I'll give you the results of the vote. In the secret vote, 182 Members took the ballot. On the person of László Fatér, 182 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of valid votes is 179, of which the number of votes is 143, the number of votes is 35 and the number of votes remain 1. On this basis, the datebookers found that the election of the Speaker of Parliament was valid and effective. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik. László Fat is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] I declare that the Parliament has elected Mr László Kövér as President of the Parliament. Now it's time for the solemn oath. I call on Mr László Kövér, Speaker of the House, to come to the centre of the Chamber, to take the oath, and I ask Members of Parliament to stand up and listen to the oath as usual. [[The people present will stand up. The National Flag Parliamentary Guard comes in from the Presidential Pulpit and, breaking the flag, stands in the middle of the hall for the duration of the oath. The interim president reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-05-08-22	I, László Kövér, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Speaker of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik. Fat László will return to his seat as representative. To László Kövér, first Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, Dr. János Áder, Tamás Sneider, Péter Harrach and Dr. Bertalan Tóth congratulates him.]]
u2018-05-08-23	I would ask Mr Attila Barcza to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask Mr László Kövér to present them with his signature. [[László Fat approaches the table in the middle of the room and signs the oath document. László Fat is congratulated by Erzsébet Schmuck and Zsolt Németh.]] Allow me to congratulate you on the election of Speaker László Kövér. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I must add to the outcome announced, my honourable House, that there were three invalid votes which I failed to communicate to you at the time of the announcement. Dear Parliament, The Vice-Presidents and the notaries will now be elected by open vote. Dear Parliament, On the basis of a joint motion from the group leaders, Mr S/3. I propose that the Parliament elect six Vice-Presidents, including the Vice-President responsible for the legislative process, and thirteen notaries. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that 14 notaries will serve in Parliament under the agreement to prepare for the inaugural session, but only thirteen will be elected at our meeting today. [[13.20]] In accordance with the joint motion, I initiate the Parliament to Vice-President István Jakab and Sándor Lezszak, Fidesz; János Latorcai, KDNP; Tamás Sneider, Jobbik; and István Hiller, MSZP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz, Vice-President responsible for legislative work; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz; Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz; István Tiba, Fidesz; László Földi, KDNP; Attilát Móring, Attilát, KDNP; István Szvávay, Jobbik; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Dezsőt, MSZP; Szabó, Sándort, MSZP; László Varga, MSZP; Bencét Tordai, Gergelytó; and Gergeló, DK. A proposal to amend personal proposals cannot be submitted, and Parliament decides on them separately without discussion. Dear Parliament, I ask you whether István Jakab will be elected Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected István Jakab as Vice-President of the Parliament by 176 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Congratulations. I ask you if Sándor Lezsák will be elected vice-president of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Sándor Lezsák as Vice-President of the Parliament with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask you if you will elect János Latorcai as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected János Latorcai as Vice-President of the Parliament with 184 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask you if Tamás Sneider will be elected Vice President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Tamás Sneider as Vice-President of the Parliament by 176 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask you if István Hiller will be elected Vice President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected István Hiller as Vice-President of the Parliament with 184 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask you if Csaba Hende will be elected Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Csaba Hende as Vice-President of the Parliament by 180 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the identity of the notaries of the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Sándor Bodo as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Sándor Bodó as notary of the Parliament with 184 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Attila Gelencsér as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Attila Gelencsér as notary of the Parliament with 183 votes in favour and no votes against, with 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Lajos Szűcs as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Lajos Szűcs as notary of the Parliament with 181 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects István Tiba as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected István Tiba as notary of the Parliament with 182 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Földi as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected László Földi as notary of the Parliament with 182 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Attila József Móring as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Attila Móring József as notary of the Parliament with 181 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[13.30]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect István Szávay as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected István Szávay as notary of the Parliament by 179 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect György Szilágyi as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected György Szilágyi as notary of the Parliament by 175 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dezső Believer to be the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dezső Széchenyi with 182 votes in favour, not with no vote and no abstention as notary of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Sándor Szabó as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Sándor Szabó as notary of the Parliament by 183 votes in favour, without vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Varga as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected László Varga as notary of the Parliament by 182 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Bence of Tordai as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Bencé Tordai as notary of the Parliament by 172 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Gergely Arató as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Gergely Arató as notary of the Parliament by 156 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the elected officials, and wish them good luck in performing their work. Dear Parliament, I have an announcement to make. I declare that by electing Csaba Hende as Vice President, he has become President of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, I declare that, with the formation of the political groups and the election of the officials of the Parliament, the House Committee has been established. Members of the House Committee: László Kövér Speaker, István Jakab, Sándor Lezsák, János Latorcai, Tamás Sneider, Vice-Presidents of István Hiller, Vice-President Csaba Hende, Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, Péter Harrach, KDNP, Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik, Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Bernadett DK, Szél, LMP and Timea Szabó, leader of the Dialogue. Dear Parliament, I hereby hand over the leadership of the meeting to Mr László Kövér, the President-elect of the Parliament, and thank the notaries for their work, and invite notaries Lajos Szűcs and István Szávay to assist the Speaker in the chair of the meeting. And thank you very much for your patience. [[The Speaker of Parliament goes to the pulpit, shakes hands with the people who are sitting there and takes his place. After the handshake, he's going to replace the interim president.]] [[László Kövér, President of the National Assembly and Dr. Lajos Szűcs and István Szávay occupy the chair.]]
u2018-05-08-24	Honourable President of the Republic. Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, Dear fellow citizens, On behalf of all my elected fellow Members, I thank the Hungarian people for their trust, which will allow us, for the next four years, to work for their benefit within the walls of this House, according to our conscience, our best knowledge and our oath to the Fundamental Law. Thank you for the work of all our former fellow Members who have contributed to the unprecedented rise in Hungary's citizens and their families in the three decades since the start of the regime between 2014 and 2018 following the successful crisis management carried out after 2010. This is where I should thank the staff of the Parliamentary Office for creating the right conditions for our work. That's what we're asking them to do in the future. On behalf of you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your votes in favour, with which you have elected me President of the Parliament. It is a special honor and a great responsibility, once again entrusted to me for the four years ahead. I'm 59 years old, I've been in politics for 30 years. Thanks to my political community and the voters, I have been a member of the freely elected Parliament for 28 years. My political community and I have been in opposition for a total of 16 years, and we have ruled over 12 years. And with the trust of the majority of this House, I can be the Speaker of Parliament for the eighth year. With all this experience, honourable Members, I can promise you what is increasingly appreciated in politics: predictability. [[13.40]] I am predictable and remain convinced that Hungary's only way to rise is within the framework of parliamentary democracy rooted in the sovereign Hungarian people's will; that the only legitimate source of political power in Hungary is the community of Hungarian voters. I am predictable and will remain in my action to respect, enforce and protect the sovereign Hungarian people's will in my place under all circumstances, and I ask and expect the same of all my fellow Members, whether they are pro-government or opposition, whether they are national or international. Parliamentary democracy under Article XIX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be governed by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the first century, the idea of Lajos Kossuth's foundation XXI. It is still valid in our century: "Everything for the people, everything by the people, nothing about the people without the people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Despite the recent years and the events of the last few weeks or hours, I remain confident that every member of the Parliament that is being formed today will share this foundation, respect the Hungarian people's will and submit to the rules of parliamentary democracy; whoever does not do so will harm Hungary, not the political force against it. And I can promise you that, together with my political community, we will protect our country and Hungarian democracy under all circumstances. For the legislative cycle ahead of us, I commend the words of Speaker István Tisza in 1912 as a guiding line of conduct: I assure this House that with the full sense of duty and full responsibility of an honest man, I will give up my solution. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. May God help our country and our nation and give you wisdom. [[Applause for the ruling parties, sporadic applause from the opposition parties.]] Dear Parliament, Pursuant to the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, the head of the House is proposed by the Speaker of Parliament. On this basis, I propose that the Parliament elect Mrs Mátrai Márta as a housekeeper. The Act on Parliament 11. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (g), the Parliament shall decide on the person nominated for the office of the housekeeper after the hearing of the House Committee. So now I'm ordering a 20-minute recess, and I'd like to ask the members of the House Committee to come to the hall of Tisza Kálmán at number 37-38. (Sunning: 13.43 - 14.17) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and István Szávay)
u2018-05-08-25	Dear Parliament, The House Committee held its meeting as a first item on the agenda with the hearing of Mrs Mátrai Márta. So the obstacle to the personal decision has been lifted. We are now deciding on the person of the landlady by an open vote. Please check your cards in the voting equipment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Márta Mátrai as the Housekeeper of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, unanimously, with 174 votes in favour. With his election, the number of the House Committee has become complete. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and on my behalf, to congratulate the elected landlady on her assignment and wish her work good luck. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that President János Áder asked Mr.Orbán to be Prime Minister and presented his proposal to the Parliament at the inaugural meeting. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Prime Minister-designate Viktor Orbán has indicated that he wishes to take part in our meeting later. Dear House, It follows a decision on the proposal for a resolution on the establishment of committees, the election of officials and members of Parliament. I propose the Commission system, Commission officials and members in accordance with the agreement of the group leaders, which also considers the views of independent representatives. The motion also contains my proposal on the name of the committee representing the nationalities and the person of its chairman and vice-president. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the National Defence and Police, Homeland Security and Foreign Affairs Committee can today select members for whom national security controls have already been carried out. The other members will be elected later. In view of the fact that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, we have to separate the President of the Legislative Committee, we first decide on the Commission system, on the officials and members of the committees, and then vote on the Chairman of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that H/5. It shall establish its Commission system and elect the officials or members of the committees, with the exception of the Chairman of the Legislative Committee, in accordance with the number of proposals submitted. Please vote. [[Vote. Score shown on the table: 183 yes, 0 no, 0 stay.]] I find that the House, acting unanimously, has established the Commission system and has elected Commission officials and members of the committees. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the President of the Legislative Committee to choose. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has elected Csaba Hende as Vice-President in charge of the legislative process. Mr Vice-President has also become the candidate for President of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Csaba Hende as Chairman of the Legislative Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[14.20]] I declare that the House has elected Csaba Hende as Chairman of the Legislative Committee with 181 votes in favour, no votes against and one abstention. Allow me to wish all elected Commission officials and members effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament and dear Guests! I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 10 May 2018, at 2:30 p.m. The inaugural session is now closed. I'm gonna ask you to stand up and sing the Word. [[The people in the room stand up and sing the Word.]]
