u2018-11-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be helped by Attila Gelencsér and László Varga. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Since 2011, 13 November is celebrated as the day of the Hungarian language. This day is one of the most important laws of the Reform Day, the 1844th anniversary of the Hungarian language. the date of adoption of an article in law. The aim of the Memorial Day is to express appreciation for the Hungarian language, according to the legislator's intention, because it is, as our most important intellectual-cultural heritage, the basestone of national identity. Three years ago, on the initiative of the Hungarian Democratic Association of Romania's parliamentary and Senate Group, the Romanian House also adopted a draft law that declared 13 November to be the day of Hungarian language in Romania, so we can celebrate this day together with all the members of our national community throughout the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and gentlemen, Remember, too, that the year 1844 was the year II. Article 3 As a general rule, it is the language of the legislation, and I quote: the Hungarian press is now excluded. Thanks to this provision, we can read the contemporary parliamentary journals and documents in Hungarian again today, and this provision has certainly made the situation of contemporary law enforcement and citizens easier. It is also due to the impact of this law that in the coming decades the development of the Hungarian legal language has begun, as well as the transition of legal higher education and scientific life from Latin and German to Hungarian. Currently, the number of Hungarian native speakers around the world is estimated at 1415 million. Within our borders, the Hungarian-speaking people living in sporadic and diaspora are bound together and joined together by our common language, which according to Ferenc Kazinczy is one of the most feared ornaments of the nation, and both a beautiful image of the national soul and a caller and a wake-up caller of both. With this beautiful Hungarian sentence, let us also welcome the day of the Hungarian language! Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, spoke with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to talk about the current national consultation. The government is very fond of pretending to consult Hungarian people, but so-called national consultation is completely confused with the communication between government and Fidesz as party, even yellow on posters is the same as Fidesz yellow; it is not consultation, so it is party campaign. The questions of the party campaign are clearly manipulative and conceptual, and the questions are always formulated in such a way that they are given the answer they want to hear, and not the answers that the government should hear. You have launched a party campaign on immigration, terrorism, and let us stop Brussels! On the title of the Soros Plan, they are now campaigning for the protection of families. I suspect that in the answer they will say that the opposition should also consult, only the opposition does not have tens of billions to buy billboards, send letters to all Hungarian citizens and advertise in the innumerable media near Fidesz. Fidesz has often referred to the latest election result proudly, but if the opposition could have spent as much or at least half as much money as Fidesz, you wouldn't have two thirds now. But to say something good about the campaign for the protection of families, it's still kind of low-key compared to the campaigns we've been doing so far, there's not that much hate in it, of course, and we've managed to sneak a little anti-refugee voice into it. But right now, this consultation is just about promoting unfair family policy. It is unfair, because every year in recent years more money is spent on the richest 10 percent of Hungarians; only 30 percent of families can make use of the family discount, for example, CSOK was used by only 90,000 families out of 2 million 700 thousand. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only?]] It is time for citizens to be consulted on issues that really concern citizens, not party campaigns. I have already suggested to the government that a national consultation be launched to address the problems of young people, young adults. Emigration is the biggest problem, not immigration. Ask young people what conditions they would be willing to stay or return home because, according to the latest statement of the Tárki Social Report, the proportion of emigrating graduates increased by 0.7 percentage points annually between 2012 and 2017, with only higher growth in Romania. So the government's usual response here is that more people migrate from other countries; most of the most qualified people migrate from Hungary. Therefore, given the importance of people's opinions and consultation, you should ask real questions. The Dialogue proposes to consult the following ten questions: 1. Do you also think that the state should spend more on health care and ensure that all citizens receive quality care? 2. Do you think we should increase the family allowance that has been unchanged for ten years? 3. Would you support early retirement for those who work in harming their health? This is about early retirement, which you abolished without consulting, as well as house savings. 4. Do you think it is necessary to ensure that no one can be evicted without the state taking care of the person's housing? 5. Do you think it is necessary to ensure that every child in need gets warm food at least once a day each day of the year? 6. Do you think that the HUF 4000 billion to be spent on Paks should be spent on housing renovation, social housing and renewable energy? 7. Do you agree that more freedom and more money should be provided to Hungarian schools so that the proportion of functional illiterates in Hungarian schools will no longer increase? 8. Do you think everyone deserves a free first degree? 9. Do you agree that the courts in Hungary should remain independent and that there should be no special courts filled with judges loyal to Fidesz? 10. Do you agree that the European Union prosecutor's office can investigate embezzlement of EU funds in Hungary? I am sure that the majority of Hungarians would also respond to these questions; it would help the government much more than the consultations that have been held so far; we believe that they should be consulted. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-13-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.10]]
u2018-11-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We see the congressman trying out in various roles this week, yesterday he was an amateur video player, in the corner like a little kid trying to hide from the classroom teacher, trying to broadcast his speech from his fellow Member on his phone, and then playing a photo camera with each other. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Infantiles!]] showing how serious the dialogue is. In the evening, I saw on the news that you were then called fake news by your future political ally, Attila Mesterházy and the MSZP, not from the government side yesterday, but from the people you're about to cooperate with, this shows up. [[Gergely Arató: National consultation!]] how serious political formation is and how serious they are about anything they say. The only thing I saw important to you was the parliamentary faction and the mayor of Zugló; all the rest was just a roundabout. Honourable Congressman, You are attacking the national consultation, as many other Western European political leaders, who call themselves the important bulwark of liberal democracy, usually attack national consultations in Hungary. We, who consider ourselves Christian Democrats, believe that national consultation is important, this is the many, over half a dozen national consultations that we have been through, so that we can ask people's opinions. This is the Christian democracy, liberal democracy, and the one that denies the need for this in the countries, and in their own countries, they dare not ask their own citizens about the most important issues. Only this has consequences, we can see in Germany or other countries how party presidents resign, or do not renew their own mandate, or how government coalitions collapse, uncertain governments exist. So we need people's opinions. If you look at why Fidesz has two thirds of the third, one of the secrets may be that we govern with people, govern for the good of people, and, before making important decisions, adopt a Fundamental Law, or make important economic decisions, before consulting the stakeholders, the Hungarian citizens. I do not know exactly what to call the MSZP, with which you are taking on a full political community, but at times the party starting with you on your coalition partner's list has proven to be a very sharp voice in public about how to break down support for families in Hungary. No one would have thought that there would be another government after Lajos Bokros, which could take it away from the families, and the MSZP did so: first it hit families with one and two children when it took away the family tax relief from them, from those who raised a child or two children, and then, of course, large family members, who had reduced their support from HUF 10,000 per child to HUF 4,000, and then reduced their support for those who were of course, who had reduced their time to two years. In addition, he raised their expenses when they increased the price of energy fifteen times, doubled the electricity, triple the gas and chased people into foreign currency loans instead of subsidised housing loans. This was the time when they took away the possibility of home creation, the possibility of family tax relief and many other family support from Hungarian families. We are the period, honourable Member, you may not have noticed this, but you said that family support should be increased, this would be one of your questions in your national consultation, we have raised the support of families from less than HUF 1000 billion in the last eight years to more than HUF 2000 billion. He said that health expenditure should be increased; we increased by HUF 647 billion if he compares next year's budget with the 2010 budget, the budget of the health fund in nine years. He said that more money should be spent on children's meals; we increased the budget for children's meals 2.5 times, from HUF 29 billion to HUF 79 billion. As far as foreign workers are concerned, honourable Member, you may prefer colorful figures to numbers, I would be happy to give you a colorful figure on this. [[He's showing it to me.]] which shows that there are far fewer people working abroad from Hungary than from Central European countries, or even from Portugal or Great Britain or Ireland, to a lesser extent Hungarians work abroad, of course even to a lesser extent than Austria or other Western European countries. So let us be proud of those Hungarians who stand in their place anywhere in the world, let us be proud that some of their income will be transferred home, and let us trust that, as economic results improve in Hungary, they will be back soon. And in the consultation on families, we are going through the life situations that are important to families, or how we can help large families to provide extra support, or how we can help young people to start a family as soon as possible, if that is what they intend to do. So, Your Honour, it is indescribable, even though you have denied it, you have denied it now. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but it cannot be denied: the most important question is what to use in Hungary the surplus that is in the budget, for immigration or for Hungarian families. It's one of the most cornered [[The president's ringing again.]] Question 1 First on the consultation sheet. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-4	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, also applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "National Insult" instead of supporting families. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Once again, these letters have arrived, many at the initiative of the Democratic Coalition are already folding paper picks, puppies and so forth, because that is exactly what it is worth. Although Minister of State Rétvári has just said that this is a Christian democracy, I would like to remind you that the emptying of the referendum and the introduction of popular consultation are the names of a man who is not really a Christian Democrat, it is called Adolf Hitler. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh!]] Nazi Germany did it, I can see the shock on their faces quite accurately, but this is the reality that a few weeks after Hitler came into power, a referendum law was created that was practically abolished. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How democratic is the rubber bullet, huh?]] the institution of the referendum [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The tear gas is very democratic!]] and what you call a national consultation is what you call a popular consultation, in which you can ask questions at their convenience and fake their data as you can forge. You have never allowed anyone, for example, to look into these national consultaries, to see how many of them actually came in, how many have they drawn, let us say, for example, for Viktor Orbán and so on, but we think, and, moreover, the figures that you have published clearly show that a fraction of Hungarian voters are involved in such a story and that a fraction of them give you the truth about these issues. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How many people voted for DK!]] It's real, that's how they're created. The other is that this something called a certain national consultation is even lying. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: No! That's DK!]] For example, he claims in one of his questions that in the last eight years, that 2002-2010 was the destruction itself, since all sorts of subsidies were taken away by the previous governments, compared to this, I think it is worth looking at some of the more important statistics, for example, compared to the first Orbán government, because you regularly compare the amounts between 2002 and 2010 with the current ones; then let us compare the data of the first Orbán government and the data of 2009-2010. I'll give you some examples, just for the record. From the second half of 2009, the family allowance became a non-taxable payment, and the family allowance was last raised by the Gyurcsány government. Over the eight years, support for families raising children has more than doubled, spending on family allowances, children and children has increased from HUF 250 billion in 2002 to HUF 530 billion in 2010. Between 2002 and 2008, from 31 thousand to 53 thousand in the care fee, from 175 thousand to 326 thousand in cash or in kind housing support was increased. And I could, of course, continue to say, gas, district heat, electricity, what kind of discounts the previous government gave me. [[9.20]] But I can also continue to say that, despite the fall in 2010 due to the global crisis, the real value of the actions after the fall of the first Orbán government was 30 percent higher than in 2001, I say, by 30 percent, the real earnings. Despite the adjustment, the increase in the real value of pensions remained high following an extremely rapid increase in pensions in the 2002-2006 government cycle. In 2010, the purchasing value of pensions should be taken into account! It was 32 percent higher than in 2001 during the Orbán government. I think it is very important to clarify these issues, because you keep making it seem like Armageddon was the Hungarian reality before 2010. Compared to this, the Hungarian people lived better than after the first Orbán government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then why did Ferenc Gyurcsány say it would hurt? And why did Ferenc Gyurcsány resign?]] You may have given me money for family support and other things, and I will not dispute it, but let us not argue it, and if we go back in history, next time you can quote me on the social policy of the government of Jenő Fock, perhaps the Dányi government, or the court of war of the Simonyi-Semadam government. I think that this data is worth looking at in a realistic way. The Social Liberal Government between 2002 and 2010 has done a great deal for social affairs and family support. And all you have to do is not write, but raise the family allowance, build social housing, open up universities, and then young people won't leave, and maybe more children will be born. And let me give you one more piece of data so that it hurts even more: in those eight years more children were born than in your eight years, you can look at the statistics. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-13-6	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2018-11-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President, he said that a fraction of Hungarians are involved in the consultation. More than 2 million people participated in the last one. Then I would like to ask you how you would describe the number of votes voted for DK in the last election: two hundred and a few thousand. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] That fragment, Your Honour. And the difference between you and me is that I don't insult those who voted for you, and I don't question your choice, while you repeatedly insult people who speak out on questions that determine their opinion. This is unacceptable! Many times, we may mistakenly think that there is agreement between political parties on the need to support Hungarian families, but then the Democratic Coalition always comes and destroys this illusion. Yesterday they joined the foreign Hungarians, and now the government's family policy. If we do a little research, this has some tradition with Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, because there are a lot of decisions on the left that have put the Hungarian families in a very bad position. Let's start with the abolition of a home-building program, a straight path to foreign exchange lending, a more than double increase in housing tax, a reduction in tax incentives for one and two children, and the abolition of three children, a year's worth of children from their mothers, a simple look at and a decision to increase energy prices, and, if that were not enough, schools were closed in many parts of the country. That's what you're saying, people lived better. This is completely absurd! I am saying all these things separately because many people may think that a large part of the parties sitting here think alike about family support measures, but unfortunately this is not the case, because almost every point of the current family support system is being attacked by the opposition. The campaign also said that the individual elements would be abolished, the CSOK would be abolished, and the tax relief system would also be dismantled, so there is no element of the family support system that would be safe if the opposition parties were given the opportunity. Therefore, it does not matter how many people eventually participate in the national consultation that has just been launched. If new points of agreement are established in Hungary in the key principles, it can define Hungarian family policy for a long time, and this would greatly help predictability, because family policy needs this. There are two important issues that I would like to bring here, honourable Member, honourable House. One is that not everyone sees Europe's future in strengthening families, there are many who would solve population problems by immigration for example, by attracting large numbers of people to Europe and thinking that this will solve everything. We are debating this, and we believe that strengthening families is the solution. Another important thing, honourable Member: when a couple marry, when they start a family, when they have children, is the most sacred private decision of two people, which is influenced by a lot of circumstances. There are a lot of life situations, and the state has no direct say in this decision. But it is worth knowing that if you want to start a family, if you want to have a child, then this government will give you all the help you can from tax incentives to nursery constructions to home creation. And for a minute, we do not think that what we can now provide is enough. We would like to expand the family support programme to see exactly how, and how, this will be the framework for the national consultation that has just been launched. Honourable Congressman, If I understand your party and Ferenc Gyurcsány's call correctly, then you suggest that your followers make an artistic work out of the questionnaires, upload it to the Internet, and whoever gets the most likes can have coffee with Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] We don't know who's in the mood to do this, we don't want to decide, but we do know that Hungarian families from the Democratic Coalition can only rely on paper picks and folded paper dogs, much more than that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of all communication courses for Fidesz. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-13-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Let me start with a statement. The best earners bring home as much as two thirds of society from the bottom, 65%. On the other hand, this means that the income of 426,000 people is essentially the same as that of 2.8 million workers. Do you understand, Your Honours? ! The point is, you guys can make it into the 428,000. And we say that even this 428 thousand distorts because this includes Tiborczok, the Butcher Lőrincek, the Garancsik and Viktor Orbán himself. Speaking of numbers, Mr. Secretary, let me tell you some numbers: Childbirth. You are constantly communicating that more children are being born today under the Orbán government, and the indicators are improving. Let's see the facts. KSH data: 99 149 children were born in 2008, 88 049 children in 2011, 90 269 in 2012, 2016 to give a better figure, 93 063, and 91 577 again in 2017 Secretary of State, you know that, and I know that these numbers will be less every year. Then it must be said why you do not speak in the national consultation about the fact that one in six Hungarian children are already born abroad, and one in ten women are able to live abroad. I brought the national consultation and let me start by saying that you have not even succeeded in putting a Hungarian family on this picture. No Hungarian family has agreed to advertise you, they have turned to Putin, and then suddenly a photo of Russia could be posted for the Hungarian national consultation. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Oh, tell me, secretary of state, the truth is, they couldn't even put a Hungarian family here. I would like to deal with two points in the consultation. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Are you listening to me? [[To Miklós Soltesz:]] Will you listen to me, Mr. Secretary? Or come here and tell me again what your problem is, as usual. Point 8: Do you agree that the spiritual, spiritual and physical development of our children is a value that the Hungarian state must also protect? You know, it's very interesting that if we read this sentence... because you were the ones who destroyed the social care system, you were the ones who destroyed the child protection system, and you were the ones who destroyed our education system to the extent that every second youth aged 18 years wants to go abroad from Hungary. He doesn't want to imagine college or college here anymore, he doesn't want to live here at all. [[9.30]] But if I can give you another figure, then from poverty data: the situation of the 11-15-year-old age group of Hungarian schoolchildren. Around them, the proportion of children at risk of income poverty and social exclusion in 2017 was abnormally high, 37.4 percent; in addition, 4.6 percentage points higher than ten years earlier. And all the data, if we look at it, the most dangerous is the children. Point 9:, do you agree with the principle that children have the right to a mother and a father? Mr. Secretary of State! Yeah, they have a right. Ten thousand children who are born every year without a father in Hungary would also have the right. Hundreds of thousands of children whose father works abroad would also have the right to meet their father every day because they have to work abroad because of living problems. The grandfathers, grandmothers, would also have the right to their children in Hungary, who have been driven away by you, the hundreds of thousands of people who have been persecuted abroad. You know, it's very interesting when they talk about how Hungarian families should be and Dad... there are half a million children in Hungary, who live in a single parent family, and more than 90 percent of them are raised by their mother. You know, everyone would have a right, yes, to their mother and father, only to create conditions for that to happen. You know, it's not the kind of national consultations you have to print for billions of forints and 50 forints, which says it's a family year. Do you know what that means? For you, Hungarian families are worth 50 forints. And, you know, that's all I can do with your national consultation. That's what it's worth. Because they don't care about Hungarian families, they send out such filth so that they can annoy Hungarian families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-13-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You may have wanted to insult us with this gesture you made at the end of your speech, but you have offended the Hungarian voters. Because Hungarian voters have an opportunity to express their opinion on a question, including those who have families, those who do not; those who have few children, who have many children; those who are still young or who are already grandparents. Everyone has the opportunity to give an opinion. Because you are angry with the Hungarian people because, for the third time, you have received as few votes as you have received, and this is the kind of frustration you have in Parliament, honourable Member, that is one thing. But to respect people's opinions so much? ! Because, you know, that's why there's gonna be people, probably hundreds of thousands of people who send them back, who care. You are now symbolically tearing their opinions apart. He said that the opinions of these people didn't matter. This operation of yours has been a real insult to them. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame on you!]] You spoke at the beginning of your speech, honourable Member, about the fact that Fidesz-KDNP represents the interests of four hundred-thousand people. Did you check the election numbers this spring? I recall 2.6 million people voted for Fidesz-KDNP, and we want to represent the interests of 10 million Hungarians and 15 million Hungarians in the motherland. We're thinking nationwide. In the nation! And here, at this word, I'd stop to see who puts their face to what, who puts their face on what poster. You are sitting here in Parliament because you gave your own face and the face of your family to the shameful referendum of 5 December 2004 rejecting Hungarians from across borders. Obviously, that's why you're so sensitive to these questions. He may be able to have coffee with Ferenc Gyurcsány, if he wins this paper dog-folding competition, then he will be on the next poster campaign against Hungarians across the border, DK, MSZP and left-wing opposition. And this will be his reward, just as you have been rewarded by the invitation of Ferenc Gyurcsány for one afternoon. So, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would ask for greater humility towards the electorate. I don't think we should lecture voters, not tear their answers apart, but consider them. I would like to correct some completely false data, honourable Member, from what you said, based on Eurostat data. You said, referring to these statements, that poverty has increased among people under the age of 18. By contrast, the Eurostat methodology statement between 2012 and 17 says that the greatest improvement in child poverty has been achieved since 12 years. Relative income poverty has decreased from 23.8 to 14.8 percent among people under the age of 18. So it's almost halfway down! These Eurostat data completely contradict what you say. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me also deny your other data, Madam honourable Member, when you aimed at 450 thousand well-off people, you said that the scale of social differences in Hungary is striking. Madam Member, this is also measured and collected by Eurostat. There's an S80/S20 statement of the income difference between the top 20 percent and the lowest 20 percent. The EU average is 5.2. In English: the richest 20 percent earns 5.2 times as much as the least wealthy 20 percent. 5.2! This is 4.3, honourable Member, much smaller in Hungary. Even though you shake your hand, honourable Member, I see that even if someone has done mathematics, he will forget his affection for numbers in politics, because income poverty in Hungary is clearly much lower than the EU average: 4.3 in Hungary and 5.2 in the EU. But your so-called poverty certificate was also issued by Zsuzsa Ferge, when he said, the Socialist Party, that in 2008, Hungary was the only state to have suffered a crisis, which did nothing, nothing at all, not a single match, in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. Zsuzsa Ferge, your home-made, left-wing sociologist, has also issued a certificate on your actions on poverty, honourable Member. We believe that the Hungarian people's thinking is family-friendly, which is why it is important before the step is taken when the government will really in the future devote itself to serious family policy measures to ask people's opinions whether they support it, whether they are behind it. This is also important to us because we see that, in the coming days, there are still great struggles and great battles to be fought in Brussels. [[Moraj in the benches of the opposition.]] And if we have citizens' support behind us to devote these resources to family policy rather than immigration, it is our strongest support, because we have always been able to rely on it, whether in national consultation or in elections or in referendums. This has succeeded in achieving these European successes in foreign policy. Therefore, our goal is to remove obstacles to childbearing, and to help those who want to have children want to start a family. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, members of the Government! I would like to draw your attention to a danger here at first. A member of the Committee in Brussels implementing the Soros Plan said yesterday:. The quality of education basically determines the competitiveness of the next generations. I will go on, he even said that he would like CEU to stay in Budapest, and Hungary would not be known for the debate around the university in the world. I think it would be very important to say that this is dangerous and that what Tibor Navracsics, a member of the Commission, said is outrageous. It is simply amazing that you have delegated a man to the Commission who you believe is implementing the Soros plan. I'm sure that won't happen in the next period. And I'm sure they won't re-enact that one of your colleagues is going to put up a weber sign in one of the Hungarian public squares, and then in six months they're going to announce to all of us that the new enemy, the Weber Committee, has been born, which you've never supported, but I'm just fake news. The thing is, before you do that, I'm gonna ask you to choose a man with a blackboard picture so that he doesn't have to keep an agenda. Or if Tamás Deutsch is being delegated to the Commission, wait a little longer until they figure out he's a Soros agent. But let's talk about the point: we all know that what they do with higher education, CEU, not CEU, is about what kind of world they want. We all know that if George Soros built a car factory in Hungary, they would lobby for it in Brussels rather than try to close it. We all know that what you do to higher education is the cornerstone of your austerity policy. I could talk about the statistics that, let's say, shows that there is a tuition fee in Hungary, but I know exactly that Mr. State Secretary will stand up and he will say that there is no tuition fee. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You paid at CEU.]] But it looks like we're watching two movies. I don't know what you call it when someone has to pay to go to college. I'm sure he's got another name for it, I don't know. Something about migration and national interest, the words may be in it, but if you pay for education, it is customary to call it tuition fees. But I would like to go further: I could also tell you how much we spend on higher education and how much this is below the regional or European average. But I would rather say that you believe that in Hungary, which was world famous and world famous for its outstanding performance in science and science, there is the fact that chemical and biological physical experiments are being told in theory at ELTE TTK, because there is no money to show them in reality. [[9.40]] What I would recommend to you is that there is a wonderful institution called the Palace of Wonders that I love very much, to conclude a strategic agreement with him. There you can bring in chemistry and biology students, and at least there you can see real experiments instead of just listening to them in theory. The thing is, in higher education, you introduced the chancellor system. That was very good, because a lot of people who are your political how do I say it? You're very close to your community sometimes admitting that corruption is your most important political achievement, but we're gonna let that happen, so you can put people like that away, and you can give these people jobs. Yet, much of the higher education institutions are in a very bad state, very, very bad financial condition. So the reason you introduced the Chancellor's system was clearly a failure. It's not too late to change that. And I'd like to keep going for a second. I can say that the fact that you have introduced tuition fees in Hungary is also a very important problem because you base your legitimacy partly on the fight against tuition. But it is also a very important problem because it is very difficult to finance higher education institutions in Hungary at the moment if one does not come from an environment such as those who can allow them to receive a double degree in different countries of Europe. And I would like to ask you that I do not know what kind of IT knowledge Mr. Secretary of State has, and I am not very good at IT. But the fact that recently, two weeks ago, they taught with an operating system Win 95 at ELTE IT shows that Hungary, which always talks about how important higher education is, may not be in the right place. As far as my professional knowledge allows, I don't think it's a very modern IT system. Finally, I would like to ask you that it is not a shame to agree with Tibor Navracsics, it is not a shame to agree that higher education will fundamentally define Hungary's future, so I ask you to stand on the side of the future, not put the CEU and the war with your former financiers in the most important place, but that we finally have a science education that not only in theory, but also in practice we see experiments with biology and chemistry students. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-14	Thank you, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government. [[István Szilárd Németh: Bence, do you understand?]]
u2018-11-13-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It seems that every week someone has to speak out to protect the Soros University, right now the LMP is on duty. [[Gergely Harvesto: What is that every week? I spoke yesterday too! Péter Ungár: I spoke yesterday too!]] Honourable Congressman! I saw that you couldn't go through the beginning of your speech with such a serious face, so you smiled at it. You know, if you and anyone else walk past the Soros University, one of the Central European University buildings in one month next year, they'll see that there's teaching going on, they'll be teachers, they'll be students. [[Dr. Miklós Soltész's intervention:]] And they're gonna be taking pay training, that's right, that's what you're gonna see. The only difference will be that an American diploma, which is not issued in America, will not be issued in Hungary. That will be the difference that will change next year, because, you know, honourable Member, everyone is equally subject to the laws. This is one of our core values, that the laws must be respected, and it cannot be that someone places himself out of law or puts himself above the law, as György Soros has been used to in Hungary for years and decades. Honourable Congressman, In the last few weeks, it's not us, it's the Soros University itself. For the first time, when the photo of what the real training of the Soros University in the United States was published. We saw a freshly painted tree house that had CEU written on it, and they thought [[Big noise, interruptions in the benches of LMP, DK and MSZP.]] You said that this is the jewel of Hungarian higher education. According to you, the jewel of Hungarian higher education is a wooden house in America, and this is where the kind of training is carried out that beats all universities in Hungary, universities with thousands and tens of thousands of students, and the training with 1760 students, of which 80 percent are foreign students, beats the other 500 thousand Hungarian students and all other universities in Hungary, which, although included in international rankings, are less than the Soros University, but they are completely annihilated by you. So you believe that the jewel of Hungarian higher education is a newly painted wooden house in the state of New York. But what was an even greater admission when the head of study at the Soros University partner institution there said that there really was no training, joint training or training to be referred to at home by the leaders of the Soros University, a training in America; and it is not a matter of giving a diploma. He also explains in very detail the head of the university's study department there that they will issue a diploma, but this is far from a diploma, but a certificate or recognition received at the end of a series of lectures, but it is not a diploma at all. [[Péter Ungár: And why did Tibor Navracsics say what he said?]] Honourable Congressman, The statement of the Soros University and their American partners and these photographs prove that the Soros University still does not want to implement the Hungarian Higher Education Act. All the other higher education institutions whose agreements have been negotiated here in Parliament wanted to implement them, they also have training in the home country and provide training in Hungary, which they also provide abroad. But the University of Soros doesn't want to do this. You are used to being above the law, honourable Member, so you have not started any real training, you have not built a real campus. There is no such life; teachers, students are at the university, then they give the diploma to the person who has completed the training, and then they transfer this kind of training to Hungary. This has gone away, honourable Member, and I believe that the downestimation of total Hungarian higher education, which you have been doing for weeks and months, whenever and only the interests of the Soros University are taken into account, even after they are exposed by the photo of their own employees and their own buildings, even after they have not taken a step to comply with the Hungarian laws. [[Péter Ungár: Zoltán Illés, Minister of State?]] You know, George Soros is not famous for building, but for speculating and increasing his wealth through financial maneuvers, even by overthrowing countries or currencies. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He built the Fidesz! Cries, noise in the benches of DK, LMP and MSZP.]] And as he said himself in a repeatedly banned video statement, he never cares about the social consequences of his financial and economic decisions. [[Noise, interruptions in opposition benches. Márton Gyöngyösi: There are relatively few investors who are not speculators! You guys, when you bring in the car companies.]] It wouldn't be good for anyone to teach that view anywhere. He has never been elected, but he has always sought political power, but not with the vote of the people, not with the support of citizens, but with money, he wanted to influence his ideology on certain governments, honourable Member. [[Continued noise in opposition benches.]] As regards the state of Hungarian higher education. You know that today we spend 606 billion forints more on education than in the last budget adopted by left-wing governments, if you compare budgets 19 and 10. The budget for higher education has increased by 40%. [[Péter Ungár: nominally!]] Today, 1600 more teachers teach students in higher education than they taught in 2010. Fidesz also knows that in 1998 Fidesz protected young Hungarians from tuition fees, Fidesz protected young Hungarians from tuition fees in 2008 and Fidesz-KDNP is the only guarantee in 2018 [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] to give talented young people free training and a quality degree. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why do I pay my child 260 grand a semester? Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-13-16	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Can't they even say good-bye elegantly? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-13-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Paolo Coelho said that elegance is not something superficial, but a way to show respect for his work and his life. In recent years, people who have been laid off from the public service have not been able to meet this elegance. It's been a few months since the government floated that there's going to be layoffs in the public sector. We ourselves have experienced several times in recent years that during the Fidesz government, kissers and their various family members have been given a place in public administration in fake jobs, but we knew precisely that dismissals would most likely not affect this social group. In the system where 13 ministers, 66 State Secretarys, 117 Deputy State Secretarys, 5 prime ministers, 12 prime ministers, 10 government commissioners and 10 ministerial commissioners are in place, we cannot really expect to dismiss people whose work is really unnecessary. Rather, those who work lifely, day-to-day, even overwork to make public service work. We have seen many times, in our visits to the public sector's workplaces, as Members, that workers have a very high workload, that they are working instead of more people, and that it is not true that the government has justified that the development of the IT system dictated that redundancies will be needed. Most of these redundancies have occurred in places where there have already been few workers, and now, instead of those who have been laid off, the remaining ones have to work more than 10 hours a day. A long wait preceded this wave of dismissal, and we have seen since summer that something will happen in this regard. Gergely Gulyás said on 21 August 2018 that there could be 15-20 percent dismissal and justified this with the development of the IT system. Then, on 29 October 2018, a government decision was reached, giving two days for dismissals to be carried out. The government did not even respect the Day of All Saints or the Day of the Dead, nor did it respect the fact that these days were much more difficult for people in their lives, crashing into their sensitive days. [[9.50]] During the dismissals, we listened to extremes about the methods, and those involved reported that the leaders often did not even meet with the dismissed persons, received the message through a customer's door or e-mail. At the moment of termination, their computers were shut down, their cards were revoked. This is extremely unfair and unworthy. If someone wanted to publish employee secrets, data that were sensitive could have done so already, there is a good chance they wouldn't have felt the need to do so at these moments. An unexpected dismissal in such a way that the worker's work is needed, everything but elegant. In everyday life we hear the words of the trade unions, the trade unions said that they had received oral information about what might be expected the previous week, but after the magnitude of the dismissal would have justified the continued negotiation and involvement of them in the process, the government again violated the law. We have been informed by the government that they will help workers to get settled by re-training. What are we going to hear from the people involved this past week? They were told that they would be retrained if they applied for the voluntary reserve military service. What is this, please, if it's not blackmail? One thing's for sure, it's definitely not elegant. Could it not be that if this government claims to be a Christian every hour, at least twice, we can hear them govern in a Christian Democratic way, and in what way they help people, families, and what wonderful government surrounds Hungarian citizens, and they can only be happy that the Fidesz government supports Hungarian citizens in such a loving way, could it not at least in these situations, when it really determines the everyday life of a person, whether tomorrow, the day after work, the family can be kept, at least by way of saying goodbye, at least that it should be elegant? Because believe me, you can all be in that position if not tomorrow, but at some point, when you're going to say good-bye, and it's going to be very hard for you to see your own methods in your own lives. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-13-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Soltés will respond to what has been said.
u2018-11-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is worth recalling, even if there will be protests here, what we have inherited from Balliberal governments. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. István Szávay: Nine years have passed since then!]] We inherited a bad economy, a catastrophic financial situation, high unemployment, and when, as a result of years of hard work and joint work, unemployment almost disappeared with the preference of domestic industry or domestic products, we were accused of a shortage of labour, and we were accused of not being able to solve this either. So we solved unemployment on one side, and then the problem is that there is a shortage of workers. And then the next accusation you made was why there aren't enough skilled people on those construction sites, in areas that would be desperately needed. We're trying to help with that, big changes. Yesterday we heard from you why there are not enough young people trained in higher education. Now it is the closest question that you have raised, and that is the big question, honourable Member, which is true for Jobbik and for you. After all, a few weeks or months ago, you here in Parliament wanted to indicate that while in Hungary bureaucracy is 17.8 percent of the budget, the OECD average is 13.2 percent. In other words, you would want to make a much greater reduction with Jobbik in Hungary than what is actually happening. Much bigger. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The downsizing of friends, not the employees.]] But the same was demanded by Martin Gyöngyösi and Daniel Z. Carpathian. The government has been called upon to have a much greater downsizing than would otherwise have been achieved in these weeks. [[Tibor Bana: The Secretary of State!]] So when we ask Jobbik for advice, we see that you stand up for people on one side, and on the other, you demand that people be fired from the public sector in a much larger number, whether from the central administration or from elsewhere. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: One of you should...!]] Dear Parliament, What is important is that an effective state must be pursued, and the aim is to really work as many people as is absolutely necessary in central administration, ministries. This change will also create the extra wage increase in this area that we have been able to create in recent years either in public education, education, higher education, health care, and now this support will be created in the public sector, especially in the central administration. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I may, the last thing I would ask of you in general is elegance, downsizing or in any way human policy. It is you, and it is you, Congresswoman, who is quite familiar with Lajos Simicska, according to the news. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] And when Lajos Simicska went to the Hungarian Nation, they asked him the following question: did he find out what had happened here in the Hungarian Nation? Answer? Of course I've been informed, I'm going to the newsroom, and everyone, dot, dot, dot, I mean kicked out, he just said it in another language, in another word. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And the next thing you know, you're saying good-bye, how elegantly: believe me, I've been in a situation like this many times, says your friend and employer, and I've always solved it. I'm gonna fire all the Orbanists, and then I'm gonna put my men in their seats, who can't be intimidated and bribed. You guys are so elegantly saying good-bye. But the other day, some news about your party policy or faction policy has been revealed that you can't deny, and it's interesting how Jobbik's human policy, the elegance of Jobbik, is. I have to say, they're covering up something so interesting in replacement training that a good chaperone would be envious of. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You have experience, don't you?]] This is what one of your future party leaders has said, because we need to review the paid staff. For honest and full - time workers, more appreciation and attention are due to the lazy and the slow. That's what you're saying. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Then their future party president added the following:. We renew Jobbik's replacement training and eliminate the prostitution character of Jobbik's internship program. It is interesting that you have this human policy, and you are working on it, and that is what you are thinking about. Nevertheless, they are fighting with people with whom they were still in the greatest friendship a month, two months, and a year ago, and now they are suing each other. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I wish you many good fights, even to sit down [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Make a sit-in. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Over! István Szávay: All right, that's enough, sit down.]] But now, not in front of Viktor Orbán's room for two days, but sit down. [[The president's ringing again.]] In front of Jobbik's faction, and that's where you're going to raise the subject. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-11-13-21	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The nation, which does not respect its past, does not deserve the respect of the present, nor does it have the right to the future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The idea of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, who is the commander-in-chief of the Polish Legion organised in the First World War, and then the first head of state of the reborn Poland, I think it is topical for all of us. Although Poland gained its freedom in battle a hundred years ago, this fight was fought not only on the battlefield, but for centuries in every Polish family where they believed that Poland had not only a past but a future. These Poles, women and men, during the alien occupation and repression, were able to preserve the cornerstones of their identity, the common language and culture, but most of all faith, to plant it in their children and grandchildren. This was the intellectual heritage that could have been born and built by the modern Polish state a hundred years ago. [[10.00]] On this value, President Andrzej Duda said at the jubilee of regaining independence:. The Poles are traditionally free people who respect their past, proud of their own values, which could be fulfilled with the support of the Catholic Church. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What this meant by XX. In the century? We all know that. The Catholic Church, and in particular Saint II. Pope John Paul has personally done a great deal not only for the freedom of the Poles but also for the freedom of Central Europe, for the breakdown of the Iron Curtain and for the reunification of Europe. That is why we must not forget that II. At the time of Poland's accession to the European Union, Pope John Paul warned his people, the Poles, to remember and preserve their values, traditions, their particular culture and their civilizational heritage after entry. Ladies and gentlemen, For our country, the end of World War I has unfortunately brought difficult months and years, pain and dispersal, which ultimately led to the Trianon tragedy. However, we can rightly be proud that in these extremely difficult times we wanted and were able to support the Polish patriots who were fighting for their freedom at that time. During the decisive battle, during the Battle of Warsaw and the Wonder of Visula, the Hungarian shipment of ammunition ensured that the independence of Poland was preserved. This historical event is also a faithful example of how we have been able to remain friends in trouble during our thousand - year history. One of the manifestations of this friendship is that the Hungarian-Polish friendly section of Parliament with Ambassador Snopek and the head of the Presidential Office of the Republic of Poland at the beginning of last week, while the multitude of Hungarians, together with the members of the Polonia in our country, celebrated and celebrated all over the country last weekend. Much more, my honourable fellow Members, that connects us than that which can separate us. We cannot forget our tragedy of global combustion, but we also need to see what we have won with Poland's rebirth. That's what we've been remembering for the last weekend and today. We respectfully bow our heads to the heroes who made Poland once again the strong ally and unchanging good friend that has always been. A century behind us has shown that we can count on each other as we did the thousand years before. I believe in the centuries ahead. Happy birthday to Poland. God bless the Hungarian-Polish friendship! Thank you.
u2018-11-13-22	Thank you very much, Vice President Latorcai. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Levente Magyar will respond to what has been said.
u2018-11-13-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, 1918 is indeed an outstanding moment in Polish history, but the history of all Central Europe. In addition to the Hungarians, everyone gained their independence in the form they had fought for for for centuries, but the Poles, whose Calvary began in 1772, with the first division and lasted until 1918, so for nearly 150 years the Poles lived in rippedness. In a rip-off that didn't leave as much of our country as it did in 1918. What made Polish independence possible in 18? All it took was the heroic resistance of the Poles, the fact that they held on to the most inconspicuous moments, when they could, they took up arms against the outnumber, fought against their fate, defied it, and thus deserved their independence in 1918. Dear House, Mr. Congressman, Here it must be said that in addition to the Polish independence and the independence of many Central European peoples, 1918 brought us Hungarians something else. Treason, the humiliation of the nation, the destruction of the suffering of millions of Hungarians and the death of nearly 700,000 of our countrymen. The leaders of the country at the time actively assisted in breaking up the country and broke the history of a thousand years in two. Dear House, What happened then in Hungary, in the autumn of 1918, was not only happening to us, it was not only due to outside forces, but also to its active creators, to those responsible for whom we can identify accurately, we can determine exactly who these people were, which were these forces. They were nothing but their political, spiritual, ideological ancestors [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] who are still sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament, sitting behind us in the Parliament; those who are socialist, liberal [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: DK!]] And deep down, there are still Bolshevik forces [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: They're sitting across from us!]] which in the last hundred years have not been able to create any value in this country, have always been destroyed. Dear Parliament, 1918, 1919, 1948, 1956, 1994, 2002 and 2006 what do these years have in common? It is that these forces have come to power in Hungary either by force or democratically, but they have not been able to create any value, but only have been bestowed on the destruction of the country. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shame on you!]] Dear House, After 2010, after these forces led Hungary into the wall in every possible sense, the reconstruction of the nation is taking place, largely based on the force that the Poles rebuilt themselves in 1918. In many respects, after 1990 they were able to travel a more successful path than we were, as the nation-destroying left-wing forces that haunted and destroyed Hungary even after 1990 disappeared much earlier in Poland, much earlier in the history of the Polish waste heap. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, What happened in Central Europe in 1918 still determines our lives [[Zsolt Gréczy: Praise Szalashi a little!]] The Poles celebrate, we celebrate the Poles, we celebrate with the Poles, we celebrate with the Baltic States, and we remember how your spiritual ancestors, your political ancestors, destroyed Hungary in 18th grade. [[Gergely Harvesto: It doesn't! We didn't bring this country into the war! Noise, interruptions.]] and, on the same impulse, on the basis of the same reflexes, on the basis of the same soil-lost, self-hating and nation-hating reflexes, they are still seeking the country's prosperity today. [[Big noise, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Dear House, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's what the reward wall is for! Dr. Ágnes Vadai gives a chocolate to Hungarian Levente.]] The Polish example, the example of the Poles, can still give us strength in this struggle. Hungary will grow stronger, Hungary will grow stronger, and with all our efforts we will continue this process and the peoples of Central Europe will build a happy and peaceful future for Central Europe together. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-24	Thank you, Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-25	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the word and the opportunity. I am speaking before today's agenda on behalf of the Fidesz parliamentary group because tomorrow, 14 November, is the World Diabetes Day. [[10.10]] On this occasion, too, I think it is important to talk about this extremely serious issue here, in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament. More than 700,000 people in our country suffer from known diabetes. However, according to expert calculations, the actual number of diabetics in Hungary is much higher, 1 million 200 thousand, as many do not take regular treatment or even know that they are diabetic. So 1 million people in our country are affected by diabetes. We need to know that in the case of diabetes, diabetes, we can talk about two types. While type 1 is created on its own, type 2 comes to the fore because of man's lifestyle, poor nutrition and lack of movement. Dear Parliament, From these figures, from these data, we can all see what a serious social issue, social difficulty is diabetes in Hungary. However, we also need to see what an important and serious social group the more than 1 million communities of diabetics are in Hungary. We need to know and understand their lives, their everyday lives. Dear Parliament, I am glad that diabetics today receive much more attention, more attention than before. Education and prevention have a very important role to play on this issue. Today, as a result of everyday physical education, 1 million 200 000 children play sports every day, which will significantly reduce the diabetes of future generations. From 2015 onwards, due to the new catering regulation, the use of salt, fat and sugar in school canteens has decreased. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary regards diabetics as an important partner and as a serious ally to organisations representing diabetics. This is also shown by the fact that, in March this year, the Government of Hungary concluded a strategic cooperation agreement with the organisations of interest representatives of diabetics. The agreements focused on a number of important points, the implementation of which is constantly monitored, both to create modern diabetic prevention and to review support for blood glucose control tools, such as test strips, in order to reduce the burden on patients. One organization suggests that we should examine which forms of telemedicine can be introduced into diabetic care, making it easier and faster for both the patient and the doctor to work. We also have an important and great task in the field of teacher training, teachers need to know what diabetes is and how to live with it in everyday life; teachers should not be afraid of taking care of diabetic children. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz parliamentary group asks the Government of Hungary to renew this strategic partnership with diabetic interest representatives, and the health and education government should take great steps to achieve, for example, the points proposed by the Hungarian Diabetes Society, so that we can make every day easier for all 1 million of our diabetics. Allow me to thank the organisations here in the Hungarian National Assembly that have done a lot for diabetics: Hungarian Diabetes Society, A Drop Attention Foundation, Szurikata Foundation, Sporty Diabetes Association, MentaPRO Foundation, ELTE Teacher and Kindergarten Faculty, National Association of Hungarian Dieteticians. Dear Parliament, From here, from the Hungarian Parliament, we send a message to the diabetics, the Fidesz, the governing parties and the Government of Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2018-11-13-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I, too, thank you for your contribution, honourable Member, to the fact that these strategic partnership agreements have been concluded. We trust that they can be renewed, because it is very important that for all diabetics, for all families with diabetes, the government also provides tangible assistance in what you have said, in order to prevent certain types of diseases from developing later. On average, there are 170,000 of them each year who are also receiving some insulin treatment. In the last ten years, if you look at the subsidies that have been paid to you from the drug register, you can see that the amount that we have been able to make available for antidiabetics has increased from HUF 5.5 billion to HUF 15 billion, so we tripled the amount of support. This is obviously also related to growing recognized diabetes. If we also look at social security subsidies paid for insulin over a period of ten years, we can see that this amount has increased from 13.5 billion to 24.5 billion. We can talk about a nearly double sum here. That's the additional resources the government has provided. Since 2010, the care of diabetics has increased from HUF 35.5 billion to HUF 48.2 billion. This means that 36 percent more is being spent on preserving their way of life, including the health of those who have diabetes. It is important that we also tried to enforce preferences in tax legislation. In order to improve the living conditions of diabetics, their support is also provided by tax legislation. Patients with diabetes 1 and 2 are entitled to benefit from the Government Decree on serious disability for the benefit of reducing the tax on the consolidated tax base. In the case of children, the disease is entitled to an increased number of family allowances under the regulation on diseases and disabilities qualifying for a higher amount of family allowances. As you said, Congressman, treatment is not the only thing that matters. The previous figures and data showed that we are also trying to give extra tax reductions for increased family expenses, extra support for diabetic children, extra support for drug costs through the social security fund, but we also try to focus on prevention. Our strategy to stop diabetes and obesity has been aimed at stopping the growth of the healthy Hungary 2014-2020. As part of this implementation, the Government has already adopted a nutrition health package, legislation on public health product tax or potato tax, legislation on the restriction of the trans-fat acid content of foodstuffs, and the amendment of the Catering Regulation that makes food that children are used to in the nursery, kindergarten and school healthier. For a healthy diet, it is important to increase the choice of food and to get used to healthier food. You also mentioned everyday physical education. Building this instructional system will also help you to get used to a healthier way of life. One can find the sport that one can then play as a passion for a lifetime, one can get used to the fact that he moves, plays sports more than once a week, chooses exercise as one of his favorite hobbies. It was an important step after school meals to banish unhealthy products from food and beverage vending machines. It is no longer possible to sell products in the buffets or in the vending machines that are hit by a potato tax, precisely so that young people do not get used to unhealthy food in school buffets. The OGYÉI's programmes of approach forming were also important, Happy-Seven in relation to drinking water, which in many cases triggers sugared soft drinks, with breakfast Startolj! The Merökanal programme, which also makes school menus healthier with the Mintamenza programs. We can also see part results not only in the reduction in the supply of foods with a higher risk of unhealthy and future diseases on the shelves of shops, but also in the fact that the spread of childhood overweight in Hungary has stopped in 2016 compared to 2010 and, in terms of seven-year-old children, the process of increasing the number of children who are struggling with excess weight has finally stopped. In the public education infrastructure development program, gym building, school building are important. We also want to build a swimming pool in every walk. We try to help those who are already sick and help them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] who are not yet diabetic, so that they do not develop this disease. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your speech. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-28	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, Coming up a line between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand [[Noise. It's ringing.]] T/2921 on the publication of the Convention on Extradition Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2921. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the T/2925 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Angola on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports will be published. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2925. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. Next up is T/2937 on accessibility of public sector organisations' websites and mobile applications. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2937. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 171 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows that T/452 on the implementation of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget for 2017. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/452 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 114 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. The next step will be the T/2052 on the 2019 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2052. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 115 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/2929 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York, dated 30 March 1961, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The rapporteur is Mr T/2929/8. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the IT network. T/2929/6. T/2929/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2929/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2929/9. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 171 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the T/2932 on the publication of an amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which was published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2932/6. T/2932/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2932/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 171 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2932/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The 2011 National Public Education Report follows a series of steps. CXC. T/2061 on the amendment of Law No 2061 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2061/6. by serial number and summary report by T/2061/7. by serial number. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2061/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 164 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2061/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 165 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. It follows that T/2935 on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of foreign affairs administration will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2935/5. T/29356 and T/29356. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2935/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, 14 against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/29357. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 138 votes to 14, with 18 abstentions. It follows that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals T/2164 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2164/5. and the summary report by T/2164/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2164/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2164/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 168 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Following on from the Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament under direct and universal suffrage 2018/994. T/2933 on the publication of a Council decision. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2933. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 150 votes, 8 votes against and 13 abstentions. It follows that T/2922 on the amendment of individual laws for consumer protection purposes will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2922/5. T/2922/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2922/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 171 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2922/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 170 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. It follows that T/2931 on the taxation of certain tax laws relating to EU obligations and amending certain laws on the subject of tax administration will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2931/11. T/2931/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed to maintain Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 has been proposed by Mr Tóth Bertalan and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2931/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes to 14, with 41 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2931/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 20 against and 36 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP and its fellow Members, T/1496 on the abolition of the Lex CEU in order to restore democracy. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 51 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 1 abstention. [[10.40]] I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK, and its fellow Members, T/1607. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 34 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 19 abstentions. I would like to ask you whether Sándor Székely, DK, Member of the European Parliament, will consider setting up an ad hoc committee to deal with the eviction and housing crisis, H/1627. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 54 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled "Akos Hadházy, independent, and by Antal Csárdi, LMP, Members" T/617. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled "Changing certain laws to improve the situation of pensioners" by Krisztina Hohn, LMP, Member, T/1158. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 55 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. Thank you for the cooperation of the Honourable Parliament, and we have reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room. Noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, Before we decide on a meeting matter, I would like to ask Members who do not take part in the work now to leave the Chamber. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to address the T/3294 on the amendment of certain related laws concerning the regulation of higher education. Legislative proposal T/3296 on the amendment of certain laws relating to research and development and vocational training. Legislative proposal No. 1 and Annex II of the year 2019 H/3355 on the declaration of the Memorial Year of Ferenc Rákóczi. During the general debate on the proposal for a decision. In the event of a statement by the Vice-President's representatives, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of individual motions only if the Parliament agrees to do so. [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller should be able to chair the meeting during the further negotiations on the proposals. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/3294. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-13-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The operation and educational and training tasks of Hungarian higher education are defined by the Act on National Higher Education. The proposal essentially contains the necessary amendments to the legislation and certain legislation related to the regulation of higher education, based on the experience of law enforcement. Allow me to highlight the major changes, some of which I would like to recommend to you. Perhaps the most important amendment to the draft is that on this basis the amount of the student normative for each person will be increased from HUF 119 thousand per year to HUF 128 520 per year by raising the social part by 2019, i.e. to HUF 166 600 per year next year, and then from 2020 the amount of the student normative will be increased from HUF 119 thousand to HUF 166 600 per year. By 2020, this student normative support will now increase by 40%. The proposal also raises the number of frameworks supported by a Hungarian state scholarship for doctoral training, from 1300 to 2 000 people, so that the highest level of Hungarian education can be made available to as many people as possible for doctoral training; Hungarian higher education should be as advanced as possible in research, development and innovation, and as many young people as possible should have state scholarships during their doctoral training. On the basis of experience, the Government also proposes to amend the rules of procedure for the review of higher education recruitment decisions. On the basis of consultations with the National Court of Justice and the Ministry of Justice regarding the change in the system of redress for higher education admission procedures, the bill proposes that the national law on higher education provide for a procedural time frame for the court, so that the parties and the court set shorter time limits than the time limits laid down by law for the hearing and for including the decision in writing than in principle. Obviously this is necessary because the recruitment process has a different timetable than a general administrative procedure. The draft lays down a 45-day deadline for the court, which is the final deadline for the student to start his studies in the relevant academic year in case of a favourable assessment, so that he does not miss the admission procedure to whom he is correct in the appeal procedure. This is an important guarantee for all students. [[10.50]] An important element in the amendment is that, from 1 January 2017, the Minister for Education can classify a higher education institution as a priority higher education institution and support its operation. On 4 October 2017, an agreement on the principles of the relationship between the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Reformed Church was signed, which renewed and extended a similar agreement in 1998. Under the agreement, the government is now initiating an amendment to the law on national higher education that enables the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár to be recognised as a university of faith and secular education. The bill also proposes to amend the law on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, with a view to regulating the so-called alert mechanism in accordance with EU law, i.e. the European-level rule system under which EU Member States notify each other of their specific decision to prohibit the pursuit of the profession as regards practitioners of certain specific professions. Finally, on the basis of the experience gained from the double leadership of the Rector and Chancellor, the rules on the exercise of the employer's rights and the chancellor's application will be clarified. Dear House, In order to achieve the objectives highlighted above, I would like to ask you to support the bill before us, after discussing it, with your consent during the vote. I believe that both the 40% increase in student norm and the granting of benefits to students in the admission process, and the priority of a new university, as well as the mutual understanding of the decision to ban different professions between EU Member States is a rule that can be supported by all parties with good intentions, of course only if they have professional and non-political goals in the field of higher education. I look forward to your comments and your support. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2018-11-13-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State has indicated, the current bill would, in practice, be a transposition of the enforcement experience into the appropriate legislative context. Consequently, I could also say that we are essentially talking about technical changes to law and not about comprehensive political and professional policy objectives of great importance in this case. This is typically the bill we refer to as the salad law in everyday language. Right away, it's number one. § 2 relates to the Annex to the Act on the Status of Civil Servants. It is clear here that there is a technical amendment of the nature of which it refers to the transfer of content covered by another legislation to the professional law, and here it also names the different payment grades and grades of teachers teaching the methodology. The part on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas essentially stems from an obligation that concerns EU directives and standards. Not only Hungary, but also 26 other EU countries are in the same position. So we are also talking about such an amendment and clarification. Article 11 §, as you mentioned, Minister of State, concerns some details of the everyday reality related to the Rector and Chancellor's cooperation, namely that the rector of the higher education institution should take part in the procedure of the Chancellor's tender. I think that this is a matter of appreciation and order, and of no particular concern to previous intentions regarding the separation of the Chancellor's rector's duties. Obviously, it's the 12th. It will be in which the opposition is likely to seek political motivation, since this includes an amendment to the term of office of the Rector. That's basically what the 12th is all about. §, that, in the case of rectors, the rule on a higher management mandate up to 65 years of age is somewhat alleviated, in view of the fact that in the management of the institution rectors who have extensive experience and are justified by the implementation of longer-term programmes and institution-building plans may still complete their term there after the age of 65. I think that this is right and important, because if we look through today's selection of higher education, we see that at Hungarian universities we can talk about at least five or six rectors who can be affected by this law. Allow me to set a specific example that I think will shed sufficient light on why this is important. I would like to come up with a specific example of the University of Debrecen. With regard to the University of Debrecen, it is safe to say that the main strength is that the rector and the chancellor's leadership work well. All of this has been dated since 2013 when Rector Zoltán Szilvássy and Chancellor Zoltán Bács took over the university. This is clear in numbers as well. Compared to 2013, the university had a budget of 79 billion, and now it has grown to 168 billion. I think it's a very prestigious number and it speaks for itself. And what is worth mentioning here is that in the budget, in the form of taxes and contributions paid by the university, this amount is normally 1-2 billion more than the total state aid granted to the university. So the idea he once had of sarcastic laughter, the logic of self-sustaining universities, there is an example that this does not necessarily come out of the air. This development is also significantly linked to the operation of this leadership pair. But what is even more important to us in this regard, and is related to long-term projects and institution-building plans, is this. The establishment of producer companies based on university knowledge base has begun. They are Hungarian and are, or will be, predominantly state-owned through the university. These are the following, and I think that these are the reasons why we should be able to think about such personal situations even after 2021-22, given that other personal alternatives do not seem to be reliably reassuring in this respect. In cooperation with the National Plant for Vaccines, the University of Debrecen and Rosatom, the production of medicalisotope is launched, the preparation of a proton therapy institute has been carried out, the medical equipment plant with university property has also been launched, the plant producing special medicinal products already operates in Debrecen, the establishment of an international atomic energy training centre is already there as an obligation under international treaties, research and production capacities linked to the Mádi Wine Academy are developed. A significant spin-off and startup circle around the university has been created, a significant cluster involving more than 170-180 companies has developed, and which, I think, is clear to everyone, Debrecen and the entire North Lowland region are essential for the economic development of the university, industry and local government and financial institutions. Technically, the fact that large companies such as National Instruments, Krones AG, Tyssen Group, Continental, or recently BMW, had a huge role to play in Debrecen, and the university has a significant additional role to play as a result of these cooperations. [[11.00]] It could also be said that contracts of this nature actually begin to sharpen after 2020 and in 21-22. So here, personal continuity and prosperity certainly justify it, I think that we are looking at this paragraph in a lively way. And not least, it should also be noted that, in this respect, these large companies with which the contracts were concluded are, after all, the people with whom they have been concluded. In this respect, I think that this passage can explicitly promote a significant innovation based on the university knowledge base in Hungary. I think it is also very right, what is added to the admission procedure. Quite simply, everyone in higher education could meet with the practice that during admissions students who did not have the results of admissions as they would have liked to have made use of the possibility of appeal. In a very large percentage of cases, this is a request for fairness, not a specific reference to legal action or interest. To say that there is no room for fairness in the admission procedure, I think that is justified, because the admission procedure decision cannot be based on fairness, since other legislation clearly states what should be done in this case. It is also right, I think, that the appeal procedure, the clear regulation of the court procedure, given that, at the very moment when the judicial review of the proceedings takes place, there will be a significant sitting break. So it is necessary to coordinate them here so that on one side the interests of students are not harmed and on the other hand, the functioning of the courts should not be an obstacle in this regard. It is also a realistic and simple proposal for a solution, which is set out in Article 16. Paragraph 1 states, namely that students who have a relationship with the institution in question do any work in that institution or do any work in the farming organisation created by the institution, and do not conclude student contracts there, but can simply be employed by a contract of assignment. This also makes it possible to facilitate the internal administration and speed up the process. In this respect, it simplifies and makes the application of legislation more transparent in accordance with Article 17. §, which is about students who have completed their training without obtaining a diploma, who, based on previous experience, have carried out 90 per cent of their repayment obligations, should do so in the future 100 per cent. In this sense, the administration of the resulting obligations will be significantly simplified and made easier. The law of big numbers is clear, it also shows that this is the final. I think it is particularly welcome that the number of state-funded PhD students is increasing, not even slightly. It's a significant rise. I believe that this is of paramount importance for longer term development, and it is also a welcome and correct decision that the government has proposed to increase the total amount of student benefits by 40%, after long discussions and negotiations with HÖOK. Clearly, the common denominator has been found. All the other topics that are still included in the bill, which relate in part to the change of name, partly to the transfer of different legal forms, how the paragraph changes, what kind of text changes are replacing the texts that have already been made, all of which show that these are basically known and applied legal changes from everyday practice. I think we are looking at a proposal that contains common and forward-looking, good solutions in this regard. I would ask my fellow Members to support it at a later stage, when it is necessary to vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-32	Thank you very much, Congressman László Pósán. I now give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We consider the proposal to be fundamentally supportive and eligible, as it corrects small and everyday issues that will positively influence the world of universities, as we hope. Let me just start by pointing out a question that we consider a little in the name of the Jobbik faction as our own child. This is an increase in student normative, which we have been pushing for for eight years, as my colleague Gergely Farkas will say. What is also a very positive development is that when the chancellors are selected, the rector will be included in this body. Here again, I would like to clarify our position, which we have held all along since the introduction of the Chancellor's system, that the kind of wish that the maintenance state enforces its own aspects at public universities in some form, is essentially a goal to be supported, but the experience since the introduction of the Chancellor's system leads us to a more balanced position, contrary to the only positive approach mentioned by the Secretary of State. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We are saying that we are not proposing the abolition of the chancellor system, as representatives of other parties regularly do on the opposition side, but we are proposing a rethink of the division of tasks and competences between the rector and chancellors. This is very necessary in our view, because the experience is, of course, different depending on university, depending on the introduction of the Chancellor's system, but the general experience may be that the involvement of the academic leadership sphere in the decision of their own university should be strengthened in this dual system. We therefore welcome this part of the proposal, but we call to the attention of the honourable Government that it is also worth reviewing the whole system here. Similarly, it is positive that, in the recruitment process, in practice, as my Fidesz fellow Member pointed out before me, we are finally making progress in an appeal methodology, because it does indeed involve a lot of potential listeners in practice. As for the employment of the Rectors over the age of 65, I also see a serious dilemma. After all, I understand what my fellow Member Pósán has indicated that there are five or more rectors who I consider to be excellent rectors at the moment, and that their subservience can obviously only be supported by an approach that takes into account efficiency. At the same time, I would reject personal decision-making in principle; once again, in principle, and I am not talking about truly excellent rectors. I think that in the Hungarian university world, the academic sphere can produce leaders who also meet this 65-year-old criterion. It is time to start raising the offspring, and I would like to pay tribute to my fellow Members. I think it's the responsibility of the current rectors to know that at the age of 65 his rector's mandate will be terminated, that the man who takes over this baton from him should be behind him. I would like to refer to the role of the MAB, as we are also considering the submission of an amendment, together with other Members from the LMP. I would like to refer here to the fact that a few years ago, even the excessive part of the government caused the membership of the MAB to be suspended from European accreditation agencies and organisations. It is also proposed to refer certain procedures to the Education Office. I am concerned about this history. Finally, in the context of the general higher education situation, I continue to call for a general overview of all universities and funding, which we have already discussed with the State Secretary in a previous speech, namely that the structure of universities and the budgetary support that Jobbik considers should still be reflected in a form of under-financing, on the basis of the approved change of grades in higher education, but much beyond that. [[11.10]] I would refer here to the need to restore maintenance, education and research funding to public universities, which were previously regulated on a normative basis. I would not necessarily go for normative support, but it would certainly have to be enforced that all three elements appear in the funding of universities, in particular that the funding of a large number of major universities lacks the research leg precisely because, in practice, only by number of students, and taking into account education, funding is currently taking place. Here, in particular, given the fact that the shadow of the transformation of Corvinus is hanging a little above our heads, I would pay great attention to the fact that very specific, problems such as the public procurement law should have been solved in the state-run universities for a very long time, as I say, this, as a former university leader, has made our everyday life incredibly miserable. I think that, in this case, it is not that if the obligation for universities were to be removed from public procurement, there would be enormous corruption in public universities, but on the contrary: the current system makes procurements that could be resolved in a much more flexible system in the framework of university autonomy extremely expensive. In summary, on behalf of the Jobbik fraction, we consider this proposal fundamentally worthy of support. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-13-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3294 ahead. This bill does not serve one or more professional purposes, but essentially, as has been said by my fellow Member Pósán and Secretary of State, it contains amendments which are necessary in the light of the experience of law enforcement. Basically, we can talk about the amendment of four laws in this bill, on the one hand, to the amendment of the law on the status of civil servants, which I consider important that the profession of the teacher of vocational methodology is also named in this law. I consider it very important to amend the law on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, because we are complying with an EU directive and condemnation, and we hope that this infringement procedure will be terminated for all 26 EU countries. My fellow Members pointed out that it is important that the rector will be included in the jury of the Chancellor's proposal, as in the coming years the Rector and Chancellor will have to work closely together to ensure that the university can function fairly and properly and perform all the tasks the university has to perform. I consider it important, it is included in the draft law that the Károli Gáspár Reformed University can become a prominent university, a priority institution for the adoption of this bill. As a father of four whose children have gone to college, university or are still attending, I know what it means when the regulation on admission procedures is to be interpreted and how it works, how to complain, how to apply for redress, and I consider it essential to narrow down the possibility of the court to 45 days in order to make a decision as soon as possible on the admission or rejection of the student. The KDNP Group supports the draft law and I call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-11-13-37	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! We have before us an amendment of the law, the provisions of which are of different weight, of different importance and of different quality. I would like to go through these and give details of the position of the MSZP faction. There are issues in this bill that are difficult or unnecessary to criticize, and it is worth making a distinction in particular. It's about time that the normative of his students hadn't done anything in nine years that the norm didn't rise by a penny, so we can now welcome the fact that their nine-year tradition has been broken. The way to introduce it in stages can still be criticized, but it cannot be forgiven that during the 8 years of their government students have started nothing in the world with public support. There are further paragraphs and provisions which can undoubtedly be approached in different ways, such as the 65-year age limit for rectors and their mitigation. If the law does so, then it is clear that the arguments must be made. Until I heard the lead speaker of Fidesz, I would have considered this to be eligible under the law, but so keen on the structure and person of the leadership of a university that I would quote, to his personal prosperity, I will consider what it means, so that it really arouses one's interest that you now really want to regulate Hungarian higher education or to make a gesture to the University of Debrecen. If we are talking about Hungarian higher education because the amendment of the law contains this, and nothing else, then it is worth analysing, as in the meaningful comment of Jobbik's lead speaker this has come up with some experience and time, after years, that the chancellor system and the rector system together, in Hungarian, that there is dual leadership in Hungarian higher education, what advantages and disadvantages this brings. I do not think that I want or am going to express your judgment in this speech, but the suggestion that the experience of this can be summarized after all these years, I think it is right. However, to give you some kind of conclusion: I do not see the advantage of having two leaders in one institution. I just don't see the advantage of hurting centuries of university autonomy. I see that there are countries, institutions, types of institutions where they have changed, but here is to show me another country, which, by the way, partly preserves the centuries-old tradition, but by the way, is in addition to one of the most American types of management, and is doing the two together. There is no such thing anywhere in the United States, there is no such thing in Western Europe, and in Central Europe and other countries, the rector's leadership is the right type. This is where we combined the two. This partly brought a host of parallels in many, many higher education institutions, it will be worth exploring what tasks the individual institutions have organised, especially financial tasks outside their own institutions, which have cost Hungarian public finances as it has a special cost of state aid, and how much the relationship between the rector and the Chancellor is really dependent, and how this affects the quality and functioning of the higher education institution. [[11.20]] But I just wanted to say that, because, by the way, it is in itself that, at the age of 65, we rigidly draw a rule in academic higher education, and I am not particularly in favour of that. I will not repeat that this would have been my general opinion if I had not heard a different explanation. Which is a very specific passage of the amendment of the law, I would not be surprised at all if the whole bill had been drafted in this form to include it, and that it had been added and added in order to discuss this expansion of the international function of the Education Office. Please, this is so false as if you are ruling the country from a minority and are constantly afraid that you will only be able to do any paragraph with the approval of the opposition. Why can't they just say, for God's sake, it's about CEU? This provision is all about nothing other than the fact that in the past there was no negative impression of the agreement with Notre Dame University in the United States and it was signed at government level, not to mention the famous Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya [[There's a lot of applause and interrogations. Bravo! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Well done!]] He made an agreement with the university. I would like to say once again that the famous University of Thailand is called Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya. [[Defiance.]] But not even the practice of names here is the point, but that when this university and Tan Gate University concluded the agreement with Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya, just to practice it together, then there was no problem with the state, and it did not think that the educational office should extend its international powers at all. What I see is that you want to stall, and there's nothing professional about it but politics. But since we're politicians and you can do political governance, I think you could say that. For example, the European Union does not need to wag its existing head negatively yesterday's opinion of its Commissioner for Education. It's called Tibor Navracsics, who says:. Of course, I would like my country not to be famous for this, but for an orderly case here, and the Central European University would be able to continue its operation in an orderly manner in Budapest. This provision is false because, for reasons of substance, it could be possible, but we knew the reason for it five years ago, ten years ago, but we did not think that the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the disposal of the government, in this case the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and, instead, another institution should take a stand in international higher education matters. What makes you think that the Education Office is now able to carry out the procedure, from one moment to the next, in every way, in quotes, in international matters, by giving and reporting more to our country than either the bipolar relationship between higher education institutions or the existing relationship between governments? This, please, is not about that, and you know it. They do not want to expand the task of the Education Office, but they want to stall by concluding a contract with the State of New York in the CEU case. It's quite obvious. But if you think and say that you don't want to do this now, then two-thirds of you can say that you don't want to do this. For the record, everyone knows that. But if that's the case, then don't turn this into a whole system, because now that all the other Thai universities are coming, you're afraid of this directing? Here they bang on our doorstep that even more universities with even longer names would like to connect with Hungarian higher education institutions. This is as far as it goes, but now that this damn provision has been made to extend the international rights and powers of the Education Office, none will come. So please tell me what you want. Tell us what your policy is, and then you can make your opinion clear, although our suspicions and reality are, let's say, a hundred percent overlap. Therefore, this debate, honourable Government, honourable Secretary of State, is considered a substantive debate. Opinions have already been expressed, and views on the pro-government side are also important on the opposition side. The MSZP faction makes its support and non-voting conditional on the response of the Government and of you, honourable Secretary of State, to the issues raised in the debate. I'm sure you have the guts to give your actual opinion. As I have said, this legislative amendment is a combination of different types of measures at different levels and of different importance, but it is mostly, in my opinion, about what I have said in some of my recent thoughts. That is why we make it dependent on how we deal with the vote. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-13-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-39	Mr President, Dear House, In this parliamentary term, we have become accustomed to the fact that there are two kinds of legislative proposals: one is directly seeking the freedom of citizens and the other is sneaky. This proposal belongs to the second category. This proposal is, in fact, a very clear sign that the government has not dared to face the problems it has caused in the area of higher education in the past nearly a decade. It does not face the real problems that affect higher education, which slowly make it impossible to function. My colleagues have mentioned more of this at today's meeting. There is no mention of the fact that in a large part of higher education the minimum conditions for operation are no longer guaranteed. There is no mention that the government directly intervenes in academic and scientific questions and decides what professions it sees desirable and which it does not. There's not much about the surface of which this bill gives a little massage, but it doesn't really deal with real problems. Let's take a look at some of these. Let's start with what the Secretary of State is most proud of, the student normative. You're giving me a rather small raise here, because... [[To intervene:]] Let us not announce 40 percent, fellow Members, because by 2020 anything can be said. They could say 170 percent by 2030, what matters is what's in the law and it's in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, If it is important for you to raise student standards, then why have you voted against the opposition amendments to the 2019 budget that aimed at raising the student normative? If I say that your intentions in this matter are not straight and fair, then I'll put it very delicately. If you really think that you should help student norms, then the minimum is that that rather modest raise... because in fact, if you calculate how much even a 40 percent raise means to a student in a month, you will see that this is a few thousand forints, but at least then these few thousand forints will be given in one. The budget can endure this; I hear that the economic results are great, it's too bad that they're only in statistics and not in reality, but that's what the budget would do. A little less military expenditure, a little less stadium construction, a little less government propaganda, and we'd be way ahead of you. If you care about families, don't waste money for national consultation, give it to students, it's better for students and for the country. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is because this money is very small, because it is not about raising every year, and now it is about such a big step. They haven't touched these normatives in over 12 years. The last thing the Gyurcsány government did was raise his student normative. Interestingly, when Mr Secretary of State likes to talk about the activities of the Gyurcsány government, he does not mention that it was the government that did the last decent student normative increase until the economic crisis. It doesn't come to mind. [[11.30]] So it is time, my fellow Members, that if you really want to do something about student norms, you should give me a substantial raise right now, at least that much now, and then it will take years at this rate if you give me this much increase every year to make a difference. It is even worse with the apartments, honourable Members. They do not face the cost of housing for students today. The situation is catastrophic, and there is no substantive measure here, because a small increase in rent subsidies does not matter much. A completely new system, significantly more money, a completely different approach is needed in order to enable students to attend the university, and we know that we always say that it is precisely those rural students who are excluded from higher education by doing so much and gladly reciting in their behalf. They don't matter when you have to spend a little money on it, and not just stupid. Let's look at some other rules. Minister Hiller has already mentioned legislation on the retirement age of the Rectors. That didn't bother you for many years. At a time when your people, who are very often forced into universities against the university community, would be affected by this, it is already important. If this is the Rector of the University of Physical Education, the Rector of the University of Debrecen, who is involved with good party people, then it becomes essential. And you will explain, my fellow Members, that the Rectors may be able to stay as leaders after 65 years, but the teachers must be sent away even if they want to continue working and if their work is needed. How is that, my dear fellow Members? [[Agnes Kunhalmi applauds.]] Anyone who has a red phone for you will be taken care of, and besides, you don't care that there's no teacher or teacher in the schools, and they won't let teachers work any longer. It's more or less the same with the Chancellors. You can gently massage and control it here, but it's a bad system. This was designed to be dictated by the commissaries you sent to the universities. They're sending the important comrade down from the party center, and that's where he'll take care of it. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You had one of those.]] And I'm sorry, my fellow Member, that the rector will now sit on the committee, how much will that matter? They will also be government commissioners, government staff, whose job is to guarantee, on the one hand, that your withdrawal from higher education takes place without interruption, and, on the other hand, to ensure that there are not too many independent ideas for universities and university leaders. It's an abuse of university autonomy. It doesn't work well, there's a constant conflict. It is necessary to leave the leadership of higher education to those who know how to do it, and these are not the chancellors you have appointed. Congressman Hiller has already analysed the introduction of the Education Office to the international treaty-based universities for a long time. This is another rather smooth trick to avoid having to confess to the CEU case, because it is not enough that they want to kill a high-quality university, it is not enough that they want to drive the CEU away, but they are even cowards to say it fairly. Simply continue the whiffing, the futility that the government will not have to make the decision then, but the Education Office will have a broad shoulder to bear. It can be said that this is a wow, but it has been objectively examined, while, in previous years, while there has been fair legislation, the Education Office has never found any valid objection to the operation of the CEU, but it is now possible to push this story on them. Finally, let's talk about the college admissions case; this is the other thing where the Secretary of State beats his breasts with half a brick to solve a problem. But they've solved a problem that you've caused. By 1 January of this year, there was a simple appeal against recruitment decisions, and there was an appeal procedure. You came up with the brilliant system of running to court for every single admission decision. You did this, you put this together. Now they're running for their money, they realize that this is going to be an amazing scandal, because the courts obviously won't have the right means, they're not prepared in any way for thousands of these recruitment cases to come in, and they're going to try to play with deadlines here. That is not the solution, dear fellow Members. There was a system of redress that worked. I'm gonna have to get that back. So what doesn't work, doesn't have to be forced. You don't have to insist on stupidities, my dear Secretary of State, just because your government has decided otherwise to push everything into the administrative courts, in case it is possible to discourage citizens from standing up for their own good. To sum up, unfortunately, I cannot even share the moderate optimism that my opposition colleagues and lead speakers have done. In our view, this law alone does not cause much damage, except for some of its regulations, which are simply outrageous, but the general problem with it is that it does not face the real situation and real problems of higher education, it does not seek solutions to these problems and is therefore not eligible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-13-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The recognition of foreign diplomas and the extension of the term of office of rectors aged 65 and over are also included in this draft law on the regulation of higher education. It clarifies the rules for recognition of foreign qualifications, qualifications and qualifications, taking into account the relevant directives and infringement procedures for non-compliance. According to the legislation, the rector will now participate in the Chancellor's competition jury. I consider this to be important, and it states that if the applicant has not yet reached 65 years of age on the date of the rector's application, but it can be extended to another three years in the tendering period or in the tender for the order. Here I agree with my better fellow Member that this may also be important, because there are excellent rectors who will fill this age, and then they will be given another opportunity or extended. A practical entrance exam will also be required for the admission of higher education. This is also extremely important, especially in sports and art courses. The draft makes it clear that it is not possible to appeal the recruitment decision on a fair basis, but it is still possible to refer it to a court for other reasons. These proceedings will be subject to special time limits in the future, as it will speed up the conduct of administrative proceedings against the recruitment decision, because the court will review the application within 45 days of the date on which the application is sent to the court and will include it in writing until the date of publication. Does this mean that the provisions of the civil order on the judicial break will not have to be applied in such lawsuits? Mr. Secretary, are we going to have to negotiate these during the recess in the summer? Please respond to that. In the context of practical training related to higher education, it expands the forms of different employment relationships to this end. It is important that, in the case of non-acquisition training with a public scholarship, instead of the obligation to repay, it introduces the maintenance of the Hungarian employment relationship, which has been an exception, and only if this non-fulfilment occurs, a repayment obligation arises. It also streamlines the regulation of scholarship obligations in the event of a change of profession. The opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee is no longer required for the authorisation of a Community higher education training centre other than a higher education institution and for the review of the permit every five years. The question is, why not? We are concerned about this. We believe that the opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee is important in these cases. The opinion of the Accreditation Committee should be sought not only before the appointment of a university teacher by the Rector, but also before the appointments of a university teacher initiated by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Arts and the Hungarian Olympic Committee. It is important that the public scholarship framework in doctoral training is increased from 1300 to 2 thousand, which we consider to be very welcome and of great importance. However, it is worrying that the proposal repeals, inter alia, the provision under which the Ministry may grant support for training in a foreign institution. It is encouraging that the student normative will also be raised. We see the proposal as eligible for the time being, but we would certainly like to take a look at the opinion of the MAB before reviewing the higher education training centres already mentioned, and we would also like to take the initiative together, joining my fellow Member. Thank you very much, I think that's enough. [[11.40]]
u2018-11-13-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As has already been said earlier, the experience of law enforcement has shown that such a salad law has been drawn up. Obviously, this law cannot be expected to solve the fundamental problems of the entire higher education, so I have no intention of taking account of it in this salad law. The first question is that the rector can play a more active role and participate in the selection of chancellors. This is a very positive thing in general or in itself, because this has not been done before, but it is quite obvious that this is not something that we can expect to resolve. This dual power, if someone has university experience, is very well aware and very well aware that it is true that the Chancellor has the key to the cashier, but the Chancellor is unable to review educational programs that are obviously important and decisive for the university. This leads to big debates and rowing, for example, in our university there was no approved budget for the university in May of this year. I therefore think that sooner or later this issue should be faced by the government as to what it would like to do now, whether there should be a hand-operated government, or whether it should be an efficient university, the two will not go together. But, of course, we have no particular problem with this proposal in itself. I, unlike some opposition representatives, do not see any problem in filling the rector's post after 65 years of age. If he's really right for this, and if the fellow instructors really think he's the right person, then why not? I'm very sad to see, by the way, that I'm going to have to give up my academic colleagues, and next year, I'm going to have to, too, because I'm going to reach the age of 65, because... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You can continue at CEU!]] That's because the university doesn't have enough money, and as a result, they can put young educators in a position. Therefore, at 65 years of age, teachers will be sent from universities and instructors will leave, who have a great deal of expertise, who would still have significant activity. I think it's a very serious mental loss and a loss. Of course, some people want to leave, some people don't have it, but in fact, it's possible to be a university teacher until the age of 70, but less and less people can fill it and fill it out, precisely because there's not enough money. Raising student normatives. This sounds good, and it will be very nice to communicate, but it would be nice to take into account that this does not cover all areas, there are only three highlighted areas, and here there is a 40% increase planned, but there has not been a norm and normative increase for 9 years, and we believe that a much more significant increase is needed here. In this respect, we will be proposing an amendment, which means that the current value should be roughly doubled in order to have a real impact on the students, because we also have to face the fact that the number of students has decreased significantly over the past period. At first sight, there is another positive thing about doctoral education, that there is an increase in the number of scholarships, so it will rise from 1270 to 2000 - a very impressive number. However, it is also necessary to see that the scholarships are not modified in the meantime, so the scholarships remain at the values of 140 thousand HUF/month and 180 thousand HUF/month, while there is a doctoral school in the foundation structure of the MNB, where this scholarship is 300 thousand HUF. This is also very painful because, despite the government's desire to have more and more people in doctoral education, unfortunately, at the end, you can see that there are fewer and fewer, so in doctoral schools there is a massive decline of 10-15 percent per year, which is clearly the case at our university. So there is a transformation that, of course, we have the total number of students, but there is some growth in FOSZK and BA training, and at the same time there are fewer and fewer students coming to Master's and Doctoral Schools, and I think that is more or less so at national level. So I think that this could be effective if there was a scholarship increase here. In this regard, I also think that we will be presenting an amendment. Unfortunately, with regard to the MAB, I think that asking for the opinion of the MAB may be an interesting and important thing, but in the last six years, when I was a member of the MAB, it was very good to see that the whole thing was quite empty and formal, because in many cases the MAB had a firm opinion, and the ministerial level was almost always or in many cases passed through this, and indeed it expressed an opinion and made a decision that was entirely contrary to it. Even in cases where the rejection of the MAB was very strong, either in relation to specific courses or even in relation to university teachers. I therefore think that it is also very important to review the role of the MAB in this respect, and also to make some changes and changes to its legal situation. By the way, it is no coincidence that the international institutions have already suspended the rights of the MAB, precisely because there is significant State influence in this regard. Overall, I therefore think that this salad law can ultimately be supported by amendments and by those orders; our faction will support this, together with the submission of the modifiers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz, DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-13-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó.
u2018-11-13-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I think the first positive thing is that the minister responsible held the expo on the part of the rapporteur, because, for example, yesterday, István Hiller's question about higher education was answered by a completely different ministry, and now we are at least that much further in. Whether or not we get meaningful answers will come to light at the end; of course, based on the experiences of the previous ones, I think we will not, but we will see. Now, let us look at this proposal, some of which is indeed a technical amendment, and another part of it is a no, and they concern content issues. Indeed, we have a salad law before us. I note in parentheses that a bill is not a salad law because it contains technical amendments, but because it combines amendments to several different laws into a proposal. This is just a small clarification of the definition that if someone has looked at the Member's previous speech through the mediation, they may not misspoke this definition. Now, let's look at the elements of this amendment that I considered important, which I thought was worth giving my opinion. On the one hand, this salad law does indeed amend the rules for recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, this is a fundamentally technical package of amendments, it is a transposition of EU procedures, and it can be said from everyday practice that, moreover, it is always necessary to polish and clarify this. I myself have encountered several cases when we have run into the inaccuracies of the rules in respect of the recognition of such diplomas, and this is probably the way it will always be in the future, that this part needs to be constantly polished and improved. I personally consider this part eligible. [[11.50]] Then, of course, the salad law amends several points of the National Higher Education Act, which I already have several problems with. One is a slight amendment, which has already been mentioned by my fellow Members, that the rector will be included in the committee assessing the Chancellor's applications from now on. The first question could, of course, be why, otherwise, this rule was not already included in the law when the Chancellor's system was established. Not that I liked it better in that form, but it would have made sense otherwise. We can remember how opaque the candidacy and appointment of the chancellors were at the time. For example, we have tried to obtain materials for a long time. Secretary of State Palkovics is sitting here, and I can see that you are listening with interest to what I am saying. We've been trying to get access to materials, what applications have been submitted, what the text is, who's judging it. We didn't get much of anything. We've seen mostly what the institutions have leaked, and we've often read very interesting things in them, by the way. Of course, that didn't bother you to appoint incompetent people as Chancellor, but that's another question. In fact, this amendment will not solve the problem that many of my fellow Members have already mentioned. The system of chancellor applications is incomprehensible in itself, and there are no quality insurance schemes in this, and there are also serious problems with the Chancellor's system itself. At the time, this was said very clearly by several people that we see the Chancellor system as a significant restriction on university autonomy. We had an argument about that, they disagreed with us. I think everyday routine has confirmed our fears. I'll give you a specific example. Here is the Eötvös Loránd University, my university, where I am an instructor, one of my arms is the Faculty of Science, but not only this faculty is involved, because there are two other faculties, so there are serious financial problems with three faculties. The chancellor got involved in this debate in an interesting way. In particular, it included details on the basic conditions for education and scientific work, for example, in relation to the funding of TTK. I think that if the chancellor refers to firing instructors, because then there will be more money for those remaining there, then there will be money for, say, lab exercises, I cannot interpret it as not interfering with education and research issues; otherwise, he is not an employer or employer, at least according to the law, the chancellor of the instructors. On the other hand, it is important to be honest: the chancellor's general activity always runs out of interference with matters that are fundamentally relevant to research and education. Education and research activities cannot be dissociated from the general economic situation of universities. From this point on, it is quite clear that the Chancellor does significantly limit the autonomy of universities. All you need to do is look at the numbers that have been accepted with a strong steering edge at the universities. You can see how they work. From now on, I can honestly say that I cannot support any modification of the Chancellor's system because I think there is a good solution: it must be abolished. This isn't working, you gotta admit. I would rather not mention the cases in Debrecen that László Pósán brought up, but for example, it was also a very interesting thing when the Chancellor of Debrecen was the one who got involved in the debate on the CEU case, while it was a scientific question. So this shows that in most cases the Chancellors do not understand what they are doing, and they do not understand it because they know that they were not sent there to interfere with educational and research issues. The following amendment, which is included in the bill, concerns the age limit or the age limit of the employability of senior executives. In Hungarian, what was mentioned by several people is that until the age of 60 can be under the current rules of higher leadership at university function. It's not just about the rectors, but let's not go into the details right now. Usually this applies to higher management positions, Dean, Head of Department and others. I must be honest with you, I fundamentally agree with this rule, and I think that in practice it works well. This is a very old rule, a positive outcome in many ways, and there is a ringing of this rule. On the one hand, it constantly ensures that supply is smooth and undisturbed from the point of view that if a university, a university community, raises prospective department heads, deans, rectors, and others, then at the height of their mental and physical capacity, they actually reach a leading position that requires a very high daily burden. Let's face it, higher management positions are a very high daily burden. Therefore, this is basically a good thing, and, I say, this is a very good message for young people: if they move forward in the academic field, they can become university leaders within a reasonable time. On the other hand, it gives rectors, deans and other high-level executives and employees the opportunity not to engage in day-to-day organizational tasks after the age of 65, but to educate young people who are, say, in doctoral training, the most relevant subjects in their field of science. On the other hand, focus on scientific research that they did not have time for in the years before, when they were otherwise burdened by the day-to-day administration. I have seen a lot of colleagues in the university that, when they are 65 years old free from this burden, the number of their publications is suddenly booming, and since they have the only meaningful, so quasi-leading role that remains in the management of doctoral programmes and doctoral schools, because they can complete this until the age of 70, from then on they can participate very intensively in the daily practice and work of doctoral schools and doctoral programmes. This, as I said, is an important thing in resupply training. I could talk to the boss most of the time when he was 65 years old, and that's when he could talk to him all the time, almost every day. It's the best way to learn, and I guess everybody's gonna sign it. I don't see the point of leading researchers after the age of 65. They don't have to deal with that anymore. Then they'll have to deal with science and re-education. I haven't heard any valid arguments, which would suggest that it makes sense to extend, push out that age limit. We've been talking about admission procedures here. The fact that the deadline for an appeal or appeal to the court is now granted by a separate rule is fine, because indeed, if someone submits the papers to the court in the middle of the summer, the current procedure does not make a decision until the beginning of September when the registration is in the middle of the summer. But indeed, as Gergely Arató said, by the way, this system was created by you. So it wasn't thought out at the time, and that's why we have to change it now. But it's basically okay to assume that unfortunately this is how the administrative procedure works. I do not agree that fairness is simply pulled out with a stroke of a pen. I've always had a different approach to cases like this. I think that we should then regulate precisely what matters, in particular, in which cases fairness can be requested. Because there may be special situations in life where there is room for fairness even in an admission procedure. I wouldn't completely rule that out. What is interesting is the doctoral training: indeed, here the number of doctoral students will increase from around 1300 to 2000; that is quite all right, I have always supported it, be as many doctoral students as possible and in particular scholarship doctoral students in the country, this is what the future of the country requires. If I understand correctly, there is a rule here about doctoral education that will abolish the rule that the doctoral school in question should provide at least one third of the objects, the credits themselves, which I do not understand, because it would be expected from a doctoral school, a doctoral program, to provide at least one third of these items on the spot, these credits. There's always a feeling that it's just pushing out the possibilities of business doctoral schools. I may misunderstand; I am interested in the Secretary of State's comment on this. [[12.00]] What Congressman Mellar said is a legitimate excuse that scholarships are, of course, still problematic, and obviously this MNB scholarship, although interestingly, the University of Pécs was one of the... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Yeah, I know, it's not your faculty, of course, I know that. I just remembered that the University of Pécs got into this in an interesting way. There was a big debate about that, yes, you, too, as I recall, gave your opinion on this. I would also like to highlight this problem of reorganizing the responsibilities of the MAB and OH. I also do not understand why the powers of the MAB should be limited and why certain tasks should be shifted to OH, such as the authorisation of higher education training centres and the five-year review. Moreover, there is no point in the justification that is described in the text simply because, when the MAB examines the specific training programmes and educational and research institutions, it should not only look at the training itself, but also the infrastructure and human condition system, and this was done very well by the MAB; this was an important quality assurance element in Hungarian higher education. It has also been said that this rule is odd, and obviously you can't think of anything but the CEU when the possibility of asking for information is extended to OH. Moreover, the interesting thing about it is that I have seen, for example, the letter sent to OH by Leslie E. Templeman, director of the Education Office of the State of New York, that this information has been received by OH without any modification of the rules, which is why, overall, I do not understand it very well, and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State's reply why it is so important to reduce the powers of the MAB and to extend the powers of OH. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I did not touch on one point in my speech, which is why I asked for a word here in two minutes, and I would like to respond a little bit to what has been said so far, especially with regard to the Chancellor's system. The concerns expressed here by my fellow Members on the opposition side are perfectly shared, and the experience is indeed not positive. There is only so much debate between us, as I mentioned in the introduction, that this means that the system itself is completely wrong and that the chancellor must be removed from the system, or that it can be repaired. I think that, even from Western European examples, where there is a management body of that kind everywhere in public universities, Germany, and a kind of president who deals with economic matters, complementing the academic sphere. I continue to believe that a very serious change is needed here in order to strengthen the academic sphere, the academic leadership sphere, so that the examples mentioned above cannot occur so that, for example, a chancellor can get to the point of initiating a dean's dismissal. However, I do not consider the system to be evil, as I have already explained. I would like to say one last point that would indicate a little bit of my personal involvement, namely that I am very pleased that the College of Faith Sciences of Győr János Brenner got the name of a Catholic priest who died a martyr's death, who is unfortunately not related to me, but I was very pleased to see this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several points have been raised regarding the Chancellors. Szabolcs Szabó said that the Chancellors do not understand the university. Let me give you one example: the chancellor of the University of Debrecen is a professor at the University of Debrecen, and if there is someone who understands the world of the university, then he must be. As regards the Chancellors, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that since there has been a chancellor system in higher education, the debt of higher education institutions has been significantly reduced, which, by the way, has previously been a very overwhelming and suffocating burden, I believe that this should not be forgotten. When Congressman Hiller said that a centuries-old university tradition with Chancellors has been violated, he probably forgets that the university is a medieval institution, the university rectors were elected by professors in the Middle Ages, and the chancellor was appointed by the head of the maintenance diocese, the Bishop or the Archbishop. So in this one, it's such an awful big, traditional turnaround, I don't sense it, I'll tell you honestly. As regards the matters of the MAB and the Education Office, I would just like to point out that the Education Office is examining the fulfilment of the conditions of legality in all cases, that is your job and that the MAB is examining the fulfilment of professional conditions; the two are not to be confused. And the way I see it, the two here were deliberately washed together; I don't think it's right to think in this direction. And I would like to make one more point: Congressman Hiller said that he would have liked the extension of the rector's mandate if I hadn't given an example in Debrecen. If I don't give you an example in Debrecen, you're probably gonna quote the opposition press, which is lex filth, and I don't know what you're talking about. So it is quite simply good to see clearly that there are five or six universities in Hungary today where the rectors potentially fall into this power or this amendment. Whether they live with it or not is another question; whether they are elected or not is another question; but to have it taken away that it is of such a nature [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's about longer-term projects than I've outlined in Debrecen, that's what I think is wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-51	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to comment on the debate, but in one way or another, Mr Pósán's speech urged me to do so. But let me first respond to what he said at the end. Dear fellow Member, Here, many of us have objected to the fact that the same rule was not important to you when it was about other universities, other rectors, when, in the last eight years, everyone who could and who had reached the age limit was retired, and we were all wondering why they had come up with it now. Is it because of the Moscow gentleman you mentioned or because of the rector you also mentioned in Debrecen? Why are other rectors, other universities not important, just these universities and these rectors? But there is one more important issue, which I think is a fundamental philosophical issue, and that is very important, because the Member forgets what the beginning of university autonomy is. The university autonomy has just begun so that universities have begun to break free now, let us not go into it in what legal way, but they have begun to get out of the ecclesiastical authority you are claiming to be, and what you are now saying is that this is the example to be followed. We do not follow this model, we love the autonomy of the church... and we do not like the autonomy of the church, but we are not talking about that, but we are asking for autonomy of higher education. What we are asking is that we do not go back to medieval times before higher education autonomy, and, of course, do not go back to the times before the change of regime, which constitute direct government control, because you are building this in higher education. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask whether there is a need for a further two-minute speech from my fellow Members. [[For signal:]] I will be able to speak to Mr Pósán only in the next round in a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go. [[12.10]]
u2018-11-13-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You have also started your exposé in relation to the law before us, that one of the most important parts of this salad law is the increase in student normative, which I agree with, since this is what most affects young people, their study scholarship may be higher, but precisely because it is the most important and so important for young people, it is incomprehensible why we had to wait 12 years for this. 12 years ago, in 2007, the student normative was last raised, from which the scholarship can be given, and in 12 years, all the other costs that affect a young person in his college studies have increased enormously. It is enough to think only of housing costs, dormitory prices, but mostly of rent prices, which now amount to an excessive amount of money, in terms of daily living, travel, notebook support, and textbook support, all of them have gone through a very serious increase, and yet you have waited 12 years with this increase, with eight of which you have governed. Allow me to say, not out of pompousness, but in order to say that we do view this as a part of our own success, because it was the HÖOK who kept this topic on the agenda outside Parliament, and it was clearly Jobbik in Parliament who regularly called on the government during various speeches, budget amendments, and proposals for decisions. I, too, have had the pleasure of listening to Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, over and over again on this issue, when I always asked why scholarships were not raised, and I never got a straight, clear answer. It is also important to increase scholarships because it is included in its name that it can be given after studies, so it should be a motivating factor for higher education participants, but at the same time the few thousand forints that students have received in recent years, even after their good results, have in many cases not reached, let's say, 10,000 forints. It's everything, but it's not motivated, so the whole system has lost its essence, which is why it's partially invented. This financial incentive and assistance is also important for young people because we can also see the drastic decline in the number of higher education students in recent years or even decades. Just recently, a statement was published that compares that in 2005, 4.2 percent of Hungarian society was a higher education student, and two years ago, in 2016, this figure fell to 2.9 percent; from 4.2 percent to 2.9 percent, a drastic decline. But if we are not looking at 11 years, but say, only six years of your governance, between 2010 and 2016, the number of higher education students fell by 25 percent, and all this decline is related to the material factors that we can experience in the context of higher education: the tendency is increasingly to be able to get into university and college with family backgrounds. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] That is why the scholarship is important, and that is why we are saying that this increase, which you are now drawing up in this salad law, is a step forward, but not sufficient progress, we would like to see more, especially in the light of the fact that we have been listening here for years, whether in Parliament or through the various products of government propaganda, what a success this country's economy is, what economic growth there is, there is money for everything; we are experiencing it, of course, by all the things that are important to you. We hope that young people will also be important to you and will not stop at the rate of this increase, but a greater increase will be expected in the coming years. The scholarship issue is, however, a complex issue in itself, and a whole part of it is the degree of scholarship, but we also had and would have a number of amendments to the scholarship system itself, which is not only our proposal, but also, let us say, the proposal of the professional representative, HÖOK. I would like to bring one thing here, for example, a scholarship to study for self-costed students, and I would ask Mr. Secretary of State to respond to this in his response to whether you have an openness to receive a study grant for self-costed students. Why would that be important? Because, thanks to you, there are quite a few majors today, there are dozens of universities today that are almost exclusively available in a cost-effective form, and in addition, they are highly sought-after; economic, legal and many other disciplines could still be listed. It is true that a good student, however, does not receive state-funded training, is obliged to attend a higher education institution as a cost-effective student, which puts a very heavy burden on him and not only has to pay for his studies, but he is not yet entitled to any social, educational or other benefits. It follows that he must take up a job in order to be able to take part in education at a university, and if someone has to take a job, it is clearly at the expense of learning. Allow me to quote from a study in this field: Each third student works throughout the year, during the periods of diligence and examination, during the periods of school breaks. 60 percent of the students who took the job work to cover their expenses from their salary, every second student and college student directly told researchers that if they didn't work, they couldn't afford to study in higher education. I therefore ask the Secretary of State whether they are planning to open up the possibility of receiving a scholarship and other benefits for self-employed students. But the whole system of scholarships requires other recasts, as the HÖOK's Vision study also stated. Here in recent years, higher education has seen changes that make the old system obsolete, on the basis of which these scholarships have been calculated. This is why it would be important for universities to re-regulate the size and methodology of the amounts that study grants can allocate to each institution on the basis of a central guidance. Turning to another topic, in the context of doctoral training, several people have said and we can only welcome the increase in the number of students in state scholarship training, from 1270 to 2 000. Here Tamás Mellár pointed out that, however, you or you have had the experience of reducing the number of PhD students in recent years. Not arguing with that statement, but maybe that's exactly what it's gonna do to increase the number of state scholarships. I actually had an acquaintance who didn't go to doctoral school because he didn't get into public education, and he didn't have the opportunity to pay for this training out of his own pocket. So it might even be a little better in the next few years. But speaking of doctoral students, allow me to bring you two more questions, which also affects this layer, and an old request for PhD students. One is the so-called pension issue, because, thanks to a 1997 law, the period of training is not included in the period of service, so the time spent in the course of doctoral students is not included in the period of service, and this is, of course, a disadvantage for them, because it is difficult to work in addition to the course of doctoral studies if someone takes research, the writing of publicists, the writing of studies and education seriously, then it will not be possible for him to do so. So this is a question, a request, which is regularly formulated in the doctoral circles, and I also ask the Secretary of State, although I can see that phone printing is more interesting for you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Hahaha!]] But I do trust that the question of doctoral students will be equally important to you. With regard to those involved in higher education, we also need to establish, in relation to doctoral students, that there is still pay for their funding and a problem in this regard: in particular, we need a career model that responds adequately to labour market processes, which is currently lacking, and that is the cause of many instructors and researchers leaving this career, and because market needs and market processes point in such a direction that they are able to look better there, so they are changing. This is why a genuine, performance-oriented, transparent system of educational advancement is needed to increase educational excellence, which measures educational performance, and at the same time makes their wages competitive with market processes, because if this does not happen, there will be very serious problems here beyond the current ones. [[12.20]] Since we are talking about higher education, let me also bring a question that is not closely related to the law before us, but since we have already seen that we have succeeded in achieving results in the context of student scholarships, I would like to raise it regularly here in the House. We find it a very serious problem that the current system of public education does not provide sufficient guarantees that students participating in public education can prepare for a secondary language exam that will be a condition for them to access universities and colleges from 2020. We have talked about this several times here with the Secretary of State. We continue to think it is a very big problem, but not just us, but every specialist and study tells us that the language education of our current public education system needs a very serious reform, because the current foreign language classes, although there are enough hours in secondary schools, are not able to prepare for a secondary language exam or an equivalent higher level of graduation. If you cannot prepare a student for the system of public education, you will have the opportunity to attend special classes or language courses. We know very well that this can be done by those with family backgrounds. From this point on, a very serious discrimination factor will enter this system, who will be able to go to a higher education institution, where the family background allows them to use these special classes and language courses, and before those who come from poorer families, the university gate will be closed. This is therefore a very serious problem, and the trends indicated at the beginning of my speech that fewer and fewer people are getting into higher education institutions will only strengthen it. I therefore call on Mr State Secretary and the members of the government present to reconsider the introduction of this system in 2020. We fundamentally agree that there will be such a condition, language knowledge is important in many respects, but this issue should not be introduced in 2020. It's an early date, and it would exclude tens of thousands of young people from universities and colleges. In summary, we support this proposal mainly because of the increase in student normative, thus increasing scholarships. I ask the government to respond to the questions that I have raised, and to take the measures that are important for young people in all respects in relation to both scholarships, doctoral training and compulsory language examination in 2020, because it is important to make gestures to young people, to show them that they are important for the country and the government, because we know very well that we must keep our young people at home at all costs, and that these steps are necessary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-13-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow Members. We have seen several ways of commenting, some actually started from the text of the amendment of the law and tried to do what they consider to be eligible. Obviously, it is not difficult to find a 40% increase in the student normative, or a radical increase in the number of doctoral students, and I think it is easy to support them from opposition. For others, I would like to address Mr Arató most specifically that he was looking for something that he could relate to the proposal, and because of some other subject, I would rather say that his political distaste for this bill, and it doesn't matter what is written in it, because DK is in competition with who is the most resistant of the Hungarian opposition parties, and they want to be the first, so they are trying to find a reason not to support the increase in scholarships or student norm and the increase in the number of doctoral students. And there are the wobblers, as Congressman Hiller, who made it subject to a later condition that he would do so or not. Apparently, he's a routine politician who's trying to prepare for every possibility. So much for the general attitude. I would also like to respond to a few specific points that have been raised by my fellow Members: student numbers and, in general, the number of young people. On the one hand, I am pleased to tell you that the number of people enrolled in state-funded training has increased noticeably from last year to this year. 59 373 was in 2017, this year and in 2018 62 034. This is where progress and rise are felt. There are many kinds of numbers to talk about, but perhaps the most talk is that the proportion of people admitted to public education can be seen with the other applicants, so the number of candidates is the number of people admitted. Here we find the same 77-78 percent almost every year. So you can do a lot of machining, magic. Obviously, it is a gift that if I just look at it in a few years since 2015, what the proportion of young people was then, the 15-35-year-olds within the entire population. This was 26 per cent in 2015, now 24.8 per cent, so the number of age groups affected has decreased significantly, the level of age groups aged 15-35 in society. Obviously, this reduces the number of applicants for admission, the number of admissions and the number of state scholarships. This 77-78 percent, on the other hand, is constant, and the number of people admitted to the state scholarship training is about the same within the admissions. What you see in this is the unfortunate demographic change, but obviously it cannot be changed from one year to the next. There is also a positive shift here, as 200 parents had 115 children in 2010, and now 200 parents have nearly 150 children, so there is progress here. However, any less negative or positive changes to this will not appear within the framework of higher education until 18 years at the earliest. Dear Congressman Harvester, I would say to you that the Rectors have had the opportunity to attend the chancellorial hearings before, there to act for the interests of the university. You've spoken rather leniently of the rectors that they can't represent the interests of the university. I think that an ambitious rector can do this, and he has been able to do it so far, because he could attend these hearings as an invitation, and now the law gives him the opportunity to participate. Several affected the different procedures, such as the appeal procedure. On the one hand, the new system also helped students or student candidates that the Education Office could manage half of the applications for redress in its own right. On the other hand, I would like to reassure everyone from the LMP that this is what we call it during the case-law break, during the legislative break, there is legislation in Parliament, legislation in court, and therefore these requests must also be considered during the legislative break. There is not much to expect here, but they must be judged in order to reach a decision in these cases before they enroll in September. The Education Office was also affected by several speeches on why the MAB should not be involved in the examination of Community higher education training centres. I'll try to explain this to you in a clear way. The Community higher education training centres do not create new training, but accredited training courses at existing university centres are carried out on all points of view, and there the Community higher education training centre only provides the site for this, the building and the organisation, but the scientific content of whether this really meets the requirements of scientific need was examined earlier when the training of the parent institution was examined. Therefore, if the MAB were to re-examine this, it would actually examine the same content on another postcode, but with the same instructors, the same curriculum, the same requirements. Therefore, since it is only necessary to examine the state of the infrastructure, there is no need to examine a scientific body, the MAB, but this type of formal examination of the Education Office can also be carried out, since the same training takes place only at another location, precisely in order to bring higher education closer to young people, so that one does not have to travel to obtain a degree. On the other hand, marketable training and training for which there is a high demand, as close as possible to the candidates for students, was our goal. At this point, I'd like to respond to another point. Perhaps Tamás Mellar told me when the decision of the MAB was overruled by the government. In cases where economic rationality, i.e. the need for employers in the area, required that training be carried out, it was necessary in the case of basic trainings, as those qualified people were needed in the employers, companies and institutions in that geographical area. Later, of course, all the shortcomings were covered by these trainings, but one year would have been a loss of competitiveness. From the basis of content in the previous period, if you look at the numbers, there were a lot more changes before 2010. We have limited this to the time when employers' demand has required that we start certain initial training courses. [[12.30]] Thank you very much for Jobbik's comments. Much has been affected, in particular, by Congressman Farkas, which is perhaps not the subject of this bill. This has been dealt with in interpellations, issues, and I'm afraid we're going to touch on it. But the question is, you said that a lot of the students work for the university. We here, Minister Palkovic, looked at each other, that we worked alongside the university, by the way, from second year onwards. Maybe you are, too. I don't think that's necessarily wrong. I could use it for my university studies, my attitude changed for a lot of things, and it made my schedule more efficient. So, in some ways, it was also helpful. Obviously, those in very poor social conditions must be helped. It's an independent question, and it's a fundamental principle for us. Therefore, it is important that the number of gypsy-born university students has doubled, so it is important that the number of disadvantaged students has increased, so it is important that those mothers can now participate in higher education on a larger scale and acquire a degree, who already have children. So the number and proportion of those in higher education who are struggling with a life situation have increased. So here, I think that the current system has a better function of creating a chance and equity, and with the increase in social support, we will obviously have this even more in the next period. But the fact that someone's working for the university, let's not think of it as a devil thing. The proportion and number of graduates. For the sake of the truth, let me tell you that in the last 8-10 years, the proportion of graduates in Hungary has increased steadily, from 17 percent to 20.5 percent. It is also important that we devote much more to higher education. Between 2010 and 2019, the budget increased by 46.1 percent for higher education and training for students. A good part of this went to the 27 percent wage increase, which also enabled us to strengthen greater financial appreciation in universities. Here, you have generally said something more negative about the Chancellor's system; there were some who had a more equitable opinion. But we also owe it to the chancellor's system to increase the stability of universities. Instead of the 13.3 billion in debt, debt, debt and debt, this amount is now only 3.3 billion. $13 billion in debt instead of $3 billion in debt. In the case of the money reserve, there is an even greater positive change, where the university has a reserve of $289 billion. We couldn't have done that if there were no chancellors. You, too, consider the financial stability of universities to be important, I trust. There was no other way to facilitate this before. The chancellors were able to do that, and they were able to quantify their results. You're talking a little bit about imaginary things, and personal conflicts, if any, that could happen between an economic director and a rector, but the chancellor system has proven itself, with these numbers exactly. We can recall that at a time when it was a previous period, you should compare this with the previous period, whether you have served to complete the autonomy of universities by devoting our higher education institutions to the sea by means of PPP schemes. After this government had to replace it, in 2016, 12 PPP projects were worth HUF 29 billion, which resulted in an additional savings of HUF 14 billion, worth HUF 5 billion in 17 and an additional HUF 2 billion in 18. Couldn't it be that this kind of debt and pressure to death with PPP schemes really limited the freedom of universities? And I would like to make sure that there is a definitive here at the end of the debate that there will be no restrictions on academic and scientific freedom, of course. It is just that it is not certain that the best scientist in a field of science, and his ability to organize science about his colleagues, has also made him worthy of being the head of science at the university, that he must be burdened with everyday economic, financial, labour law, recruitment and other issues. It may be better, in fact, it has been demonstrated in recent years that it is better to deal with non-scientific and non-academic issues, but also with operational, economic, financial and administrative issues at the university by a top manager, so scientists can deal with scientific life and the training of students. This is proven and similar models are found in other countries. Obviously, if you saw it in a company, you'd be applauding a lot, that's not what you're doing here. This was, however, the basis for wage increases and increases in resources for higher education, the economic stability of universities, in recent years. I trust you'll acknowledge that. Many have mentioned the issue of the Soros University. This is completely independent of this proposal. The fate of the Soros University depends solely on the Soros University in Hungary. If they want to comply with the law, they'll respect it. By the way, we congratulate Congressman Hiller on his knowledge of the Thai language that he was able to say so here, but also the universities and other universities listed by you, which we do not underestimate, because they obviously created a significant achievement in their own country, and Hungarian students want to get their diploma there, so let us not overwrite this decision by Hungarian students. But if others wanted to comply with the law, have real training in their native country, real instructors give a real degree, and they made an effort to do so and thus bring their training to Hungary, this means compliance with the law. But in the case of the Soros University, when it turns out that in America, a piece of freshly painted wooden house was actually fitted with the inscription "CEU" [[Szabolcs Szabó and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene.]] when the head of the study department itself admits that they really do not issue a degree in joint training with CEU, and this is actually a course that gives some kind of diploma, but this is not a real collaboration. [[Interview from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] It's a pro form of cooperation, and I'm not saying this, not by any member of the Hungarian government, not by the Education Office, but by the head of the study department of the American partner university of the Soros University, that there is no real education in America at the Soros University. We don't say it, he says it himself. The pictures speak for themselves. You say that the leading Hungarian university, the most important university in Hungary, the Hungarian university with the highest scientific value, say this about the university that operates in a wooden house in its native country, and in principle brings the peak performance created in that wooden house to Hungary as a kind of copy. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There is no Hungarian flag, that is the problem.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian identity of the Central European University, the Soros University, will continue to function and function under the conditions provided to all other Hungarian universities. But besides the other international identity and American identity of the Soros University, CEU should comply with Hungarian laws. We see that this is a good business model, because foreign identity, the US university, could not receive subsidies from the European Union. That is why we needed a clone organization, a Central European University, to receive EU grants, and the attraction must be given by the American diploma, as this will give us a fraction of the price of a US degree, and we do not have to travel to Germany or America to get such a degree. [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] So we see that this is a good business model. The American diploma gives the attraction, the Hungarian identity gives the opportunity to call public funds. The two are inseparable. We see that it exists, but this situation has nothing to do with this bill. Don't decide whether to vote for this or not. The fate of the Soros University depends solely on the Soros University. If you comply with Hungarian law, then, just like others, it can continue to work, and if not, it can't. But I will continue to say, what I have said to you many times, we believe that if you go into these buildings, where the Soros University still works, you will still find teachers and students in one or two or three years' time, and the training will continue. In that, however, he gave me a sign, but I am telling Congressman Hiller the truth, former Minister, that this is a political issue. It was not the government that made a political issue out of it, but George Soros and the Soros University made a political question, because he thought it would serve the interests of this international network better if it was a political battle against the Hungarian government, and this is an opportunity to discredit the Hungarian government, rather than treating it as an administrative issue, and perhaps not in a tree house agreeing with another American university on a non-graduate training course, but a real education. The decision was in their hands, but Congressman Hiller is right, but with a different sign: the Soros network really wanted to make a political issue out of it. However, I ask my fellow Members that their opinion on the bill is influenced by the bill and not by the news stream. I ask you to support this, because then you can be a part of raising the student normative by 40 percent, and you can be part of a radical increase in the number of state scholarship PhD students. I think that's a good goal. I need your support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.40]]
u2018-11-13-56	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft legislation amending certain laws relating to research and development and vocational training until closure. The government referral is T/3296. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2018-11-13-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill amending the laws relating to research and development and vocational training consists of three main parts. First, it proposes to amend the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize Act with a view to giving Széchenyi Prize winners aged 65 and over a regular monthly allowance to appreciate their scientific, creative work and excellence. On the other hand, by amending the VET Act, it will introduce the chancellor model already in place in higher education institutions in vocational training centres. Thirdly, it aims to promote the exploitation of intellectual works created at universities at research centres financed by the central budget by a targeted amendment of the Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Act and the National Higher Education Act. Dear Parliament, Knowledge and innovation are key factors for Hungary to maintain dynamic development and to continue catching up with Western Europe. All three proposals aim to strengthen these factors and values, to enhance their effectiveness and recognition. The aim of our first proposal is to express the social appreciation of those with outstanding intellectual activities by introducing an allowance for scientists over the age of 65 who receive the Széchenyi Prize. In addition to the fact that outstanding intellectual achievements are awarded each year by the government with the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize, it is necessary to provide a regular allowance that expresses the appreciation of performances by contributing regularly and in a predictable manner to the financial security of the recipients in their old age. This provision becomes complete through the introduction of a lifelong scientific creator's allowance similar to that available to the Kossuth Prize winners. The funding of the scientific creative fee should be provided in the budget of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, so the government will arrange for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to pay a scientific creative fee of HUF 186 million, as well as an additional HUF 5.5 million from the 2019 budget in order to carry out the related administrative tasks. The scientific creator's allowance also expresses the importance of engineering solutions that seek and develop unique innovations with a focus on excellence and quality, as well as the appreciation of scientific research results, the presentation of our fellow countrymen and their way of life. Dear Parliament, The second pillar of the bill is the provisions governing the vocational training system. In the face of ongoing economic and social changes today, flexibility among market players and public systems is becoming increasingly important. In recent years, the government has done a great deal to make this flexibility its own for vocational training. Measures that make the response to new challenges more effective and speedier include the introduction of a dual form of training, the system of vocational training scholarships, the establishment of vocational training centres and the establishment of a framework for sectoral training centres. However, because of the rapidly changing market environment and everyday innovation, such a system may never be seen as ready and closed. When Vocational Training Centres were set up in 2015, the main requirement was to perform vocational training tasks in a more efficient system, which, based on the experience gained so far, is well suited to the new institutional structure. In order to enable the Director-General of Vocational Training Centres to further focus on their primary task, it is worth introducing the chancellorship system in these institutions as a new element to monitor the professional activities and educational standards of the institutions they manage. Under the proposal, a well-functioning institution in higher education institutions will take over in the future the task of ensuring responsible, transparent and professional management and managing the operation of the institution. The bill ensures a higher regulatory level of maintenance powers in relation to public vocational training and adult training bodies and vocational training centres, thus clarifying the role of the Minister of Vocational Training and Adult Education, as well as the maintenance of the State VET and Adult Training Body. This proposal also provides opportunities for vocational training centres and higher education institutions to engage in the practical training of sectoral training centres in order to ensure full coverage of practical training tasks. In addition to organisational changes, the proposal introduces into the law the system concepts of closed electronic distance education and closed distance training management, which, inter alia, makes it possible to improve the quality of vocational training by means of practical training and by means of a process independent of the training facility for student progress. Dear Parliament, The starting point for a government innovation policy tailored to international trends is to strengthen the institutional capabilities and capacities of the developing state. This is done by the new RDI, governance organisation and financing model adopted by the government, which sets out a dynamic, structural framework for an integrated RDI policy throughout its system. One of the cornerstones of all this is the amendment of the law that we are discussing here. Our higher education institutions have an important role to play in the operation of the research, development and innovation system in the next period. These institutions, in addition to providing traditional resources for knowledge production, researchers, and research infrastructure, can act as catalysts for cooperation between several organisations, such as research, knowledge transfer organisations and businesses. One of the key elements of this process is the commercial exploitation of research and development results from universities, the strengthening of advanced technological transfer activities to ensure innovation management of studies, the increase of patent activity, which, according to international experience, is particularly lively in the environment of the best universities, providing significant benefits to universities in this field from the results of research and development and its benefits. The legislative amendment creates a regulatory environment in which intellectual works created at publicly funded research sites become the property of the research site, resulting in the involvement of these actors in the protection of industrial property rights and the commercial exploitation of their intellectual works. The acquisition of intellectual property rights by universities is therefore expected to make better use of them and the resulting rising revenues contribute to the improvement of university funding. The proposal before this House will help to increase the number of patent applications for intellectual works created in Hungarian public research centres, the magnitude of innovation activity based on them, and to strengthen and improve research cooperation between universities and industry. On this basis, Hungarian operators, Hungarian companies, can also increase their competitiveness. In order to ensure better exploitation prospects, the amendment also re-regulates the concept of a recovery undertaking, building on the management guarantees of the institutional company. To sum up, the new regulatory framework will allow for the development of support, promotional and catalysing factors for the innovation ecosystem, in particular the university-based innovation ecosystem. In view of this, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposals to amend the laws described above. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-58	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, We are now going to have the keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from the rapporteur, we have before us the amendment of laws relating to research and development and vocational training T/3296. It's a bill number. There are three parts of this bill. I don't want to repeat what the author said. The first is the 12th of 1990 on the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize. Amendment to the Act to ensure that Széchenyi Prize-winning scientists, if they are 65 years of age, receive a monthly monthly allowance to appreciate their scientific, creative work and excellence. This is supported by our faction, and I hope that as many people in this House will vote as possible, because in my view, or in the opinion of our group, it is timely and fair for them to receive such an annuity, as is the case with an artistic allowance. [[12.50]] The second part of the bill is CLXXXVII of 2011 on vocational training. Law, which in short constitutes amendments to the VET Act, the backbone of which is justified by the introduction of the Chancellery system in vocational training centres. On the one hand, in higher education, as we have heard from Secretary-General Bence Rétvári, the chancellor system is successful; it is also necessary for an economic leader in vocational training centres, not for an economic director, but rather for a manager with a view to managing the institutions' responsible, transparent and professional management, but, in my opinion, not only to achieve this, but also to keep in touch with economic operators, it also monitors the economic environment, and as vocational training is a dual training system, it has a scholarship, the relationship with companies is growing, sectoral training centres are being created, it can say, to manage it. In addition, it is, of course, an important amendment in this section to allow more extensive participation of vocational schools maintained by higher education institutions, universities and colleges in state-supported vocational education and training. It also introduces a closed electronic distance education of digital competences, strengthens the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office's maintenance powers for vocational training centres and removes the limitations of adult education in non-state maintenance schools that they hold in vocational training schools. Let me put a parenthesis here at this point, as we see in adult education here on the basis of the amendment that it is also about repositioning and making it more effective, and this is regulated here. The third part, as we have heard from Minister, consists of amendments to the law that facilitate access to intellectual works created by central budgets, including universities, which facilitate innovation, facilitates ownership, and at all, to ensure that they are implemented in a flexible system. Dear House, In short, I would like to mention these three parts, perhaps in the first part, the need to adopt the proposal, as I see it, and also the professional foundations. Minister of State said that Széchenyi Prize-winning scientists were involved in the payment by the Academy, and this has a budget of more than HUF 5 million, and there is also the coverage of the grant. I think that outstanding intellectual achievements will drive forward and make the XXI. To respond adequately to the challenges of the century, they give impetus to the economy, and they also develop the arts that give the beauty of human life. So here's where we drink the two together. This is why every year the Kossuth and Széchenyi prizes are handed over to those who have been able to create outstanding artistic or scientific works. In this respect, I believe that the tasks of the proposal, as presented, have been discussed in advance with the leadership of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which is reflected in the proposed regulatory method. Let me mention the second element. Here, I would like to say a few things about the Chancellor's system. As I see from the bill, Vocational Training Centres will not simply be the chancellors' economic leaders, as I mentioned earlier, but senior managers with management views who are co-ordinated with the Directors-General, because in 2015, as Vocational Training Centres were established, 44 of these in the country, the Directors-General were essentially responsible for the professional work of the Centre, and they did so well, so there is no particular problem, but the changes that have taken place since show that there is a need for a chancellor or, let's say, at the head of Vocational Training Centres, to establish a higher level of leadership position equivalent to that of the Director-General, which is responsible for running the institution. I think that we can argue about how beneficial a chancellor system is, but it is not really worth it, because in higher education it is clearly quantifiable and it can be demonstrated that the functioning of the institutions and the accumulated wealth have become much more stable, as we have heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Of course, the regulation, the bill, also states that the Chancellor is a public servant of the vocational training centre, the right of appointment and absolution belongs to the ITM Minister, and, of course, after the chancellors enter, the resources will be provided. This will ensure a responsible, transparent and professional management of vocational training centres. In addition, as I have said, and I would like to stress that, of course, because the economic environment is changing flexibly, Chancellors must also deal with companies, companies, the economic environment and development. The third part does not need to be justified in particular, we have heard from the author the need for this, the flexibility of this word here, the flexibility of this system, and the possibility for intellectual property to be as professional as possible under the Act on Innovation, the Patent Law, the Treasury Act and the Law on State Property. Dear House, In summary, I would like to say that all three parts of the bill are based on life, and I think that it is only possible to support that Széchenyi Prize-winning professors are granted a monthly allowance after 65 years of age. In the second part, we welcome the introduction of the Chancellery system in vocational training centres. In our opinion, this can only be positive. In the third part, the promotion of domestic information, the exploitation of research results from publicly funded universities and the effective regulation of their development into market products and services can contribute to innovation and economic development in Hungary. The Fidesz faction will fully support the proposal and invite the opposition to support this amendment to the bill in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains very different elements, with very different quality proposals. Since both Minister and my fellow Member with Fidesz spoke in great detail about the details of the proposal, I would therefore like to respond point by point and to express the opinion of the Jobbik faction. The first point is the part of this proposal concerning the Széchenyi and Kossuth prizes, mentioned by Minister in his introduction, so that these high-performance colleagues can receive remuneration over 65 years of age, of course it is a goal to be supported. It is also very important to ensure the background of appropriate professionalism when selecting the winners. [[13.00]] As regards the acquisition of intellectual property and ownership of universities, there is also an interpretative question for the Minister, which is the proposal 15. As regards §2 of the Act, it is stated that, if I interpret this detail of this proposal correctly, then the institution of higher education should only conclude a trust contract according to the submission. So I specifically support what the Minister has indicated in his proposal that intellectual property rights should enter universities, and here is my question whether this part of the proposal limits this, if so, then I respectfully suggest that this restriction be lifted. As regards the part of the proposal concerning vocational training, my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs explains in detail the opinion of the Jobbik faction. In principle, I mention only the experiences of the introduction of the Chancellor's system, which I have already said at the previous item on the agenda, that Jobbik believes that the Chancellor's system is essentially not of the devil, but that the leaders of the academic sphere have, according to previous experience, been too repressed in decision-making, and we consider this to be worthy of remedy. Here, however, the introduction of the Chancellor's system in vocational training without major pre-study studies is fundamentally of concern. I would like to start with the part of the proposal in support of the implementation of the digital education strategy by explicitly and particularly integrating digitalisation tools and results into education in Jobbik's electoral programme. So this is a basically very important goal. What we have here, in this proposal, is a very specific part of the integration of digital devices and competences into vocational training, and here I have serious doubts, in particular, that if I mention regional differences in the country, let us say, how much this proposal serves to make real progress in a region where we know that 25 percent of 15-year-olds are functional illiterate on average. So I think that regional differences here must be taken very seriously into account in the implementation of this detail from the point of view of where there is a real background to vocational training and, by drawing up appropriate details, there must be serious modernisation of vocational training and adult education here, which, of course, we agree to far-reaching with this aim. If I am already at this point, I would like to point out that the general standard of vocational training and the re-enhancing of certain cultural elements are, however, absolutely necessary. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The point of this proposal, which removes the restriction on the number of adult education in a vocational school maintained by non-state maintainers, is considered to be a specific objective to support, precisely because of what I have just said, that in adult education and vocational training there must be very serious changes in the education system as a whole in order to meet the very serious challenges in Hungarian society. I would like to conclude by saying that my fellow Member, Mr Ander, will present the opinion of the Jobbik faction. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-62	Thank you, Congressman Brenner. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-11-13-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, It has been said that the bill before us can be divided into three parts, and I would also like to speak a little bit separately from the three parts. The first is that I think we can pay off an important debt in this way, too, that Széchenyi Prize-winning scientists aged 65 and over would also receive a monthly monthly allowance under the bill, obviously in recognition of their scientific work. This will be implemented by MTA, the Academy of Sciences, and the resources will also be available in the budget of the Academy of Sciences. Secondly, we think and believe that a good vocational training system is a fundamental condition for competitiveness and can strengthen the country's ability to attract capital, and if we look around, we see that more and more countries around the world recognise that knowledge must be brought into the economy through education and research and development. Obviously, we have had to overcome an important disadvantage in the field of vocational training with countries not suffering from communism or socialism, but we can see that Hungary is at the forefront of recognition of the importance of vocational training and the transformation of systems from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The transformation of the domestic legislative environment has already taken place, and now the emphasis is on the gradual introduction, and this could also give the Hungarian economy a competitive advantage over regional competitors. We can now see one step in the proposal before us. For us, it is a priority to link research and development and innovation to the economy, both in real terms and in everyday life. I would note here that my fellow Member Brenner said that the Chancellor's system is not from the devil. Of course not, we introduced it, so how could the chancellor system be from the devil? [[Defiance. Gergely Harvestó: There's no difference!]] But allow me to congratulate the young Hungarians who have been participating in the world-class professional labour competitions in the past few years and who are getting serious results. We also congratulate those young Hungarians who have achieved a good result, who have also participated in vocational training, who have achieved these noble and beautiful results. The 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training The introduction of the Chancellery system in vocational training centres constitutes the backbone of the amendment of law in the form or model of a well-functioning institutional system in the higher education institution system. The best way to ensure and operate responsible, transparent and professional management of institutions is through chancellors selected, prepared and appointed by the Minister for Vocational Training. In our view, the chancellorship system provides a guarantee for a responsible, efficient and accountable management of public funds. In addition, the legislative amendment will allow vocational education and training schools maintained by the higher education institution to participate in state-supported vocational education and training and provide opportunities for the vocational training centre and higher education institutions to acquire them in cooperation with the planned sectoral training centres. It introduces a closed system of electronic distance learning to facilitate the development of students' digital competences and the possibility of a closed system of distance learning management system. We believe that digital illiteracy is a clear competitive disadvantage in today's world, and therefore a strong emphasis should be placed on continuing and developing education of digital competences. We consider the third amendment to be a very important amendment in recent years, and we consider it a great achievement that, once the situation of universities has been stabilised, the financing has been fixed, the debt has been reduced, obviously due to the Chancellor's system. Therefore, since higher education institutions and research sites are in a much better position, it is entirely appropriate and justified that, now strengthened, the rights arising from the research site which is the central budgetary body and the intellectual property which it acquires for consideration or free, which the State has enjoyed, but by now exercising ownership rights on behalf of and on behalf of the State as a trustee, are exercised by the budgetary research site or the university. The nature of intellectual property rights is fundamentally different from that of other assets and should be a priority for the economic exploitation of intellectual works created at research centres, including, where appropriate, in cooperation with corporate collaborators. We believe that without proper exploitation there is no chance of a return on R &amp; D expenditure. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, we think the proposal is very forward-looking, thank you very much for this, and the bill is supported by the faction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-64	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, my fellow Member, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-13-65	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! In addition to the text of the bill or legislative amendments, this whole topic will be enriched interestingly in the debate, so in addition to the text of the amendment, I would like to say, in agreement with others, the main speaker of our group. [[13.10]] First of all, there are things that are worth getting down and done quickly, because we fully agree with them. It is right to introduce a scientific creator's allowance for these Széchenyi Prize-winning excellences, and we support and recommend that we do not engage in any particular debate. It is an interesting issue, in which we will obviously have more debates, the issue of vocational training and the introduction of the chancellor system in the field of vocational training. Since, in the case of another Higher Education Act, I have already expressed my opinion on higher education chancellors, I will not reveal such a great secret that I am not a fan of the chancellor system, nor of its introduction to vocational training. Here, the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Vinnai, said important sentences, because if it were to be as he says, we would not have a professional or political debate, as you speak of the fact that the difference between the chancellor and the economic director is that this is a management management that we are talking about at Chancellor level, and the economic director is trying to manage the money. I don't think so, and I suggest we discuss this, and that's not the main difference. An economic director can be completely manager-minded, not against anyone at all, and he has the opportunity. The question between the Chancellor and the CFO is who appoints him. Let us agree that the introduction of the chancellor and the introduction of the chancellor position in vocational training strengthens the presence of the government, its direct presence within vocational training institutions, and actually narrows down the role of the economic director. So the debate between us is not about who is or is not manager-minded, it can be about an economic director as much as it is about a chancellor, it may not be about one system, it is about one system, and the other is about the direct involvement of the maintenance state in an important field of education, including public education. I note that although this could lead to a long debate, I see vocational training as the most troubled within our entire education system, there are quite catastrophic trends there, and I still cannot and can't agree in any way with the fact that an earlier law or amendment of legislation within the system of vocational training has minimized the proportion of public education objects. This is where my speech relates to an opinion by Mr Nacsa, on which I am trying to put it in such a way that it is not misunderstood, and I ask that it be not misinterpreted. You said that vocational training, already in Hungary, had to bring down great disadvantages from the times before the regime changed. Therefore, I would suggest that we do not try to analyse the entire Kádár system, I will not do this, but I would like to remind you that in the '70s Hungarian vocational training was famous for Europe, it has achieved such a standard and innovation within the system that not only did they come here to study vocational training within the then political camp, and not only from Europe, but from Canada to Australia. Compared to this, they have chosen a completely different solution in Western Europe, which we do not need to analyse, but it is worth recalling the process and the fact. The point is that, first in Germany and then in the German language area, in the more Western areas compared to this, the same solution was found in a social debate in Germany, which took place in the late 60s, in the early 70s, so to speak, when they said that they do not want to develop the traditional professions or professions as they have so far, but to open their gates to workers from south-eastern Europe and Turkey. Please, if you were living in Düsseldorf in 1979 and the plumbing had to be fixed, you had to call a mechanic, there is a 90 percent chance that a Turkish man came, who even installed the plumbing; unlike the so-called modern or innovative professions on which German youth was set up, the part that continued his studies in non-university institutions was raised in these professions. In Hungarian, there was a major social change in vocational training at that time, first in Germany and then in German, and this has a wide variety of branches-bogas and results, including the fact that 2.9 million Turkish people currently live in the Federal Republic of Germany. This should be the question of the Germans, for example, I would not choose this direction, but it is a fact that first the labour market was opened to Turkish workers and then the former Yugoslavia workers, and they came into the field of intellectuals, much less vocational training, bringing about all the changes that we, if I understand correctly, do not want to do. But from the solution to vocational training, which, by the way, reduces theoretical studies by referring to the fact that these people in their own profession are unnecessary to learn the objects and sciences mentioned above, I ask you nicely, only that a change of technology that will be experienced in ten years' time by a skilled worker coming out of your vocational training system cannot be interpreted, because they can only claim what is currently the case, they can teach you what is now, that in order for this to happen 12 years from now, seven years from now, or 20 years from now, when you are on the field, you cannot adapt, that's for sure. I am therefore curious about the rapporteur, the Minister, when, in another part of the bill, we are talking about the approximation of vocational training and higher education at a different level. I would like you to explain, as far as possible from the law, how you want to approach higher education and vocational training, which, in itself, would be very welcome, especially if we could see the implementation of this, because in reality we see not the approach, the approximation, but the distance. That is why I would like to ask you, when you reflect on the speeches, that you would be kind enough to do so. Finally, there is the third innovation unit that supports higher education research centres and their cooperation with the corporate sphere, the market. How good it would have been if in 2010 we hadn't destroyed what we had done so far! How good it would be if, by the way, the relationship between higher education and entrepreneurship, higher education and the market was not limited by the fact that the otherwise well-tracked Commission meeting protocols, which were implemented in the unfortunate national higher education law of 2011, could be followed up well, but rather by the fact that the world of the market and higher education, by shutting down higher education and state higher education, instead of all the things that they had previously started, they would have continued, which I see here, by the way, the question and the possibility. But speaking of which, I would also like to ask the Minister, with all due respect, that we are talking here specifically about the relationship between higher education research centres and the aforementioned sphere, not the academic institute network. [[13.20]] We have discussed this several times in other areas and other times, and I'm afraid we're going to talk about it again, the academy. I do not want to talk about this, but I do want to say whether we are talking here specifically and exclusively about higher education research centres, or if we are talking about an institution network of real research institutions, including the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. With all of this, I wanted to say that the MSZP will not reject this law. I think it is important for the Széchenyi Prize winners to achieve what the amendment contains. I also find the Chancellor's system inadequate in vocational training. I agree and agree to strengthen the relationship between higher education and vocational training, higher education and the market. Thank you.
u2018-11-13-66	Thank you, Vice President Hiller, Congressman. Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group, is now taking the floor.
u2018-11-13-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As my fellow Members have already said, we are talking about a common mix of cold cuts, where there are three proposals with substantially different themes, with substantially different content, elaborate and substantially different purposes. For this reason, the general opinion of the Democratic Coalition on the bill is that it is very not possible, as a result of the need to establish a different relationship for different parts of the bill. The first part, which provides for the benefit of the Széchenyi Prize winners, is essentially fine. There are some questions about the wording, the role of the Academy and, in particular, the guarantee of resources. There, we are not quite clear about the government's blessed activity, which would reduce and verify the sources of the Academy, that the guarantees here provide sufficient assurance that it will be an uplift, obviously an up-and-coming, automatically indexed amount, and that will always be available. We might as well believe the government's word of honor, but it's not worth much, so we have some doubts here. But in essence, we agree with this regulation. To go down by expressing the level of our agreement, we see it as much more problematic, but still not unacceptable, the end of the bill; the part that contains the parts relating to the amendment of the Higher Education Act and innovation. Special for digital environments is apologies, not exactly how the bill, the introduction of digital educational environments into the law, it is a professional pleasure for me personally, and there are many other provisions in it. At the same time, we feel that these rules are not fully coherent with the whole and approach of the Higher Education Act. At the same time, they intend to put together higher education through chancellors and through funding rules, and at the same time tell them to go and soar. This represents a real opportunity for some institutions, especially in technical higher education, and it is certainly welcome, but at the same time we find it quite problematic for other institutions. It would be very simple to solve this issue: if the government considers this to be a good direction, it should not be arranged in such a few relatively short legislative proposals, but rather in the functioning of higher education as a whole, it would be necessary to review the rules in order to establish a general regulation that is not only good for one university or institution, but also for the whole of higher education to function as flexiblely as the Member said, and indeed, Minister, and we agree with that, a flexible operation where every institution has rules which are otherwise adapted to its area of training, function and size. Once again, we see no problem in the fundamental direction here, and we see problems of coherence in particular. Finally, we see the greatest problems in the field of vocational training. The attempt to introduce chancellors is simply incomprehensible. After all, in higher education, we understand at least, and I have already talked about this today, for example, they wanted to appoint a government inspector who had the authority to run through academic university autonomy, financially, professionally, or even politically, to control the institutions. But what is the intention of vocational training? They say there's a manager-type leader. My dear fellow Members, my dear Minister, what is the Director General? There's a vocational training center, and the director general doesn't do pedagogical management there anymore, so it's his job to manage the entire vocational training center. Besides, you should give the driver's licenses back to the heads of each vocational school to run their own institution professionally. But this doesn't happen, but instead, the chancellor will be added to the Director General and the Director-General as a further element, as usual, he will be given all the powers and a management structure that will be managed by the three of them. Well, if something doesn't work, it certainly doesn't work if they're gonna assign such a manager type task to the institutions. This does not make any sense, to be honest, unless we take advantage of the suspicion that the new minister would like to put his own man in addition to the Directors-General appointed by the previous minister and thus gain personal influence under the direction of vocational training. I have to add that this is going to be a problem, and honestly, it doesn't make any sense. Re-regulate the powers of the Directors-General, put out new applications if you do not trust the current Directors-General. There are no autonomous decisions here, and you also appointed the Director General. Now they're going to appoint a chancellor, so really, this has nothing to do with it. But frankly, the whole system is wrong, I have to add that, so I don't envy the principals either, but it's not because there's no other person there to help them from the back seat screaming or dragging the government from the other meeting, but because the entire current concept of vocational training is a fundamentally wrong, wrong concept, which doesn't acknowledge that this is basically an educational activity. And here we have reached the point, ladies and gentlemen. Because the most fundamental reason for the design flaws and problems of the bill is that education cannot be led in half. There is no way to direct one ministry to the Higher Education Act to submit a bill, and the other ministry to submit a bill. Well, at least talk to each other inside the government if you don't talk to us and the business. Well, don't do that. Vocational education institutions still have a number of types of public education tasks. Compared to this, we will change the vocational training centres from here to here with a law. You do not know, nor do you know, what the impact of the institutions on the tasks and functioning of the Public Education Act is, I believe, a conceptual error. It is not possible to break apart the state system of knowledge management, the state system of education. From kindergarten to college, from vocational training to high school, it's a system. This system must be managed in a unified way. I would add that there was also shared supervision in our time, but then we used amazing energy to have a strong reconciliation between ministries, competent ministries, and to introduce legislative proposals with both aspects in mind that there is consensus and a common view. That's not the case right now. The unfortunate vocational training is being pulled in two directions, and the situation and the consequences of breaking up vocational training are now unmanageable. I am not questioning it, and this is what I see from the bill that Minister has a great ambition to remedy the burning problems of vocational training. If that is the case, then I ask you not to find half-solutions, not so spectacular, and we will send another person there, and then they will be much smarter than they have been before, and they will do better to look for solutions of the type, but to start, to sit down with the profession, to look at the working, good international practices, and to start over the structure of this vocational training system. Because if there is an area of education where, in the last eight years, otherwise extremely varied Responsible Ministers, State Secretarys and Directors-General have done nothing but damage, chaos and confusion, that is vocational training. [[13.30]] This cannot continue, fellow Members. You see labour market data, the economy is starting to hit the ground running, and the country is going for this type of vocational training policy. Let's put this in order, but not by such pretense measures, but by going back to the basics, because, by the way, you know that today it is the shortage of workers, the shortage of skilled workers that is causing the most damage to the entire economy. But you can't just start this in vocational training, Mr. Secretary. There's a lot to fix in public education just to make this work. I ask you to leave this part of the bill to cause more damage, more organisational confusion, and to start a substantive professional and policy debate on how to save Hungarian vocational training. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-13-68	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-11-13-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Chancellors will also manage the management of the institution in vocational training according to this bill. The explanatory memorandum states that they are thinking of introducing this step on the basis of an institution that is already well functioning in higher education institutions. Do universities also think that this works well? It is an important question as to why the new organisation, the chancellorial system, should be established. Did the Directors-General and Professional Managers appointed by the Minister for Vocational Training and Adult Education not perform their duties properly? The powers of the Director-General of Vocational Training Centres are, according to our reading, significantly impaired, as well as those of the deputies, who lose their higher management positions. The transformation, the chancellor's system, as in universities, limits the autonomy of vocational training centres and detracts powers from the Directors-General. The chancellor is preparing a new organizational and operational code. Those responsible for the operation of vocational training centres shall exercise the ownership rights of the vocational training centre in the companies in which vocational training centres hold shares. They shall be responsible for the economic, financial, control, accounting, labour, legal, administrative and IT activities of the vocational training centre, for the management of the institution's assets, including technical facility recovery, operation, logistics, service, procurement and procurement. In other words, there will be a chancellor above whom the minister is primarily standing, and there will be a director general appointed as the number one responsible leader, who can do almost nothing without the chancellor. Who are the chancellors? A Chancellor may be appointed who has at least three years of management experience and higher education in a public education institution, a higher education institution, a business company, a central or regional administration. A kindergarten teacher, a school principal, requires a five-year training and a vocational examination. Why is the appointment of chancellors not subject to professional qualifications, and why is only three years of leadership training sufficient? The question arises as to whether there has been consultation with trade unions and professional organisations during the preparation of the legislative amendment. Not as far as we know. What are the technical and economic results of the transformation as of 1 January 2019? Why is the measure so urgent that it is necessary to start restructuring during the academic year? The second major amendment concerns the ownership of intellectual property created at individual research sites in the framework of research and development. Here, in essence, the regulation before 2014 would be restored, i.e. excluded from the scope of the national wealth and national wealth law, and given to individual research centres as separate central budgetary bodies. This is justified by the fact that in the current system, especially due to strict regulation on national assets, the commercial exploitation and market access of individual intellectual property is almost impossible. We are concerned about the admission of non-transparent organisations to the exploitation of intellectual products created at publicly funded research sites. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-11-13-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I have no objection to the first of the three parts, and I myself believe that the introduction of a scientific creator's allowance is eligible. And with regard to the second, I do not want to go into repetitions. In general, I also think that this issue of vocational training is very, very problematic and that the introduction of the Chancellor system also raises serious problems. He has also raised serious problems in universities, so I cannot quite interpret what my fellow Member Nacsa said earlier, that the very essence of the Chancellor's system and the most important result is that the university's debt has been reduced and that there is greater budgetary discipline, because otherwise it could have been resolved in the way that we would have sanctioned the university rectors more if they had been overspended. I suppose that would have been possible, and then there wouldn't have been the Faramuci situation, the dual power system that we feel every day on our skin, that the chancellor, since he has a high appointment license, is trying to tell us what kind of programs are going into the budget, while there are other universities with non-scientific Chancellors. So you want to make a decision on scientific matters and try to make decisions by a chancellor who doesn't have it because he doesn't have the right skills. And the third thing is the issue of developing the state of development, the development of scientific research. I've been thinking a lot about what the reason for the amendments here is, what the justification is, if the innovations from the central budget, which are implemented at universities, will be the law of those, so intellectual property rights will now belong to the university and not to the state. Well, college is a state college, so I thought it wasn't that important. Then I started putting something together in my head, and it's good that the Minister is here, and he's going to reassure me that I'm seeing certain horrors, because I've come up with a vision that it's like a master plan that the government is taking away the scientific research network from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, taking it away, putting it into universities, universities, and then the universities are doing this research work, and then the results of this research work, its intellectual products, will be owned by the university, and then these universities, in a foundational form, will be organised out of the state circle, which, by the way, the academic network, which has been state owned so far, will be transformed into private property. Rest assured, Minister, that I see only horrors that there is no such master plan, because otherwise I see no other reason for this whole transformation, but only this. But if that is the case, then it will have serious consequences and very serious consequences for the whole research activity, and I think even more widely for our whole spiritual life. Consequently, I cannot support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-13-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches, first to Mr Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP, for two minutes.
u2018-11-13-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd react very quickly to a few things. Vice President Hiller said that the government would just like to put a person in the vocational training system. At present, both the Director-General and the Director-General are appointed by the Minister, by tender, and then appointed by him. So obviously right now, if that's what you're afraid of, there's this kind of appointment. [[13.40]] But we believe that the Chancellor will not be a confirmed economic director. Obviously, the Director-General will supervise and manage the core activity, and the Chancellor will take the professional, financial, financial part, as is the case with universities. I thought, and obviously I don't want to go into this, in the pre-regime vocational training system, that, for example, the children of those born in the Ratkó era, who were born in the early 1970s, and then they were directed in the same proportion to the vocational training system, hundreds of thousands of people found themselves unemployed in the years before and immediately after the regime change. And the system has not developed any additional mechanisms or changes to this, nor has it been possible to achieve any innovation because of the lack of capital. That's all I wanted to say. I wanted to say to Mrs Hohn, who has just left, that this is both written in the material and we have heard that there have been several discussions, so that what she has missed, the trade unions and professional organisations have been consulted. So I think that this is not worth criticizing. There has also been a criticism of the university's chancellors that you object to this. Congressman Mellar said that this could have been resolved in other ways. But the result speaks for itself. So I'm sure there are several ways, but there's a solution, and there's a result, and if that result worked, then it's worth trying it somewhere else. We didn't say it must be the most perfect system in the world, but it might be a very good system, because we saw that it worked well elsewhere. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-74	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, Ms MSZP, will be on the floor.
u2018-11-13-75	Thank you very much. The Chancellery system: the result really speaks for itself, the entire Hungarian scientific community has lost it and the entire university sphere, and the whole Hungarian economy, industry and higher education world will suffer a very heavy price. But I would like to add three sentences to vocational training. Gergely Arató drew attention very clearly to a conceptual error, which I would like to confirm in a minute and a half. One is that when the child's life is not viewed in the same way as politics, so from kindergarten to higher education or the acquisition of a profession, or the acquisition of a degree, and it does not build a structure in government, politically, that encourages and helps it, that is a huge problem. We see in the dropout how serious the consequences are. On the other hand, it's very advanced. When you made the first VET Act, I was a first-cycle Member, and in the debate on the VET Act, one of the Fidesz MEPs said that Congresswoman, a wrench and a hammer were enough for the mechanic. While we know we're not installing Wartburgs and Trabants, we're installing Audis and Mercedes, just to say two lines of operation that are here in our country. If the child does not have the basic language skills, the basic ability and skill development... And here is the third conceptual problem: vocational training cannot only pursue management and market approaches, and important pedagogical methods must also be used to ensure that a skilled worker in vocational training, with a degree in vocational training, can convey the technological development of his own profession for a lifetime. Finally, this education system controls the Horthy system [[Nacsa Lawrence: What? It's controlling...]] A little over ten thousand and nothing on the bottom. The Hungarian society is being torn apart. Please, the priority of the economy also tells us all the surveys, including for Hungarian entrepreneurs, if the education is not corrected by Fidesz, the economy will also suffer. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2018-11-13-76	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr. Winner of Vinna Fidesz will be on the floor.
u2018-11-13-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member Hiller, and that is what Gergely Arató said, because we see it fundamentally differently. He says that vocational training is a disaster, or Gergely Arató said something like that, if something doesn't work, it doesn't work. I would like to remind you that we have created a system that allows practical training, with the creation and subsequent amendment of the VET Act, in modern deficiency professions, if one chooses wrong, one more day of training. So we're going in that direction, with the development of digital competences... I don't take that principle, so I can't accept it, I don't know what you're talking about when you say you need a screwdriver and a hammer. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is a Fidesz congressman... it's on the record!]] Even if Fidesz said it, I can't accept it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is a different speech!]] , from the point of view of the fact that, in fact, vocational training... I do not know if you have been to a vocational training centre, vocational training facility, have seen a dual training facility or have seen a practical training facility maintained by an undertaking where there is an open vocational training day where students are moving. And we even set up a scholarship because the children of disadvantaged families show up here, whose educational results are such that he can't go to college or college. Because I think I may still have time to finish this line of thought, that if you're a good student, and you want to go to college, college, you have to keep the gates open. I think we can agree on that. But someone who targets a good profession and acquires that profession will be a good craftsman, and he has the knowledge material, the knowledge material of public knowledge and digital knowledge we think so, I think, then he can be a successful adult who can implement his plans as an adult in vocational training. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-78	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Jr.
u2018-11-13-79	Mr President, Dear House, I would very much like to see the climate prevailing in this debate in the Committee on Enterprise Development, where we have basically professional approaches, with fewer political ratings. Here we have an absolute quality report on labour shortages. My pro-government fellow Member, the fact that students are moving is not a parliamentary category. So here we need to find answers to specific numbers, facts. 150-200 thousand well-trained workers are missing from the Hungarian economy so that the Hungarian economy can absorb them immediately if they are present. We will all pay for the costs caused by the shortage of labour, from basic food to the VAT system in many other forms, but I do see that you do not seek or find the answers to the fact that, if appropriate, a good professional comes out, let us assume that in a large proportion, I do not think so, but let us assume that he comes out of this system. What prevents him from going abroad? It's nothing, isn't it? Typically, you even deny that these people exist in large numbers, hundreds of thousands of them abroad. We should be arguing here about the motivations that keep those involved at home, and in terms of vocational training, we should find such motivations missing. And I must also tell you that if you believe that the Chancellor's system is a success story within colleges, then we are dealing with some very serious ivory tower syndrome, because from the inside, members of these institutions, the people who live there, do not experience it that way at all. So to assume that one thing is a success story, while not a success story, and to extend it to other sections, I think it's not just a capital mistake. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Numbers.]] But it has an extremely serious impact on the Hungarian economy. I understand that my fellow Member wishes to refer to numbers, but scientific life cannot be measured only in numbers and only in strigulas. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not a parliamentary category.]] So my request is for you to go deeper in this area. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-13-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent congressman for two minutes.
u2018-11-13-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to add very briefly to this debate so that we can see that the problem of vocational training is not that there is no chancellor, so there are other problems. Here's the problem with dropping out. I respect Congressman Vinnai for working out such a vocational training leg within the Bridge programme, and I do not think that he has fulfilled his expectations, by the way, but you have tried to solve this with Chancellor. Or there was the system of professional structure decisions, which has been proven to be wrong many times because they touch it badly. And I'm being complained about by entrepreneurs in Csepel, for example, who are bar members, as to why the Chamber's proposals create such professional structure decisions. And the problem with vocational training is that it was created in a hurry, for example. We remember that this has been the case in the Committee on Culture several times, when Mr Aáry has repeatedly said that it has been misintroduced, in fact, that the system of professional qualifications in the sector has not been introduced in accordance with the legislation. Or, as the course of science was tricked: I was complained to by several of the principals of the centers that this system was in haste, and the instructors of natural sciences did not know what to do, neither curriculum, nor curriculum, nor anything, and it was already necessary to teach. And it hasn't really worked out since then. [[13.50]] Nor is it the chancellor's fault or deficiency that, when these restructurings took place, the gas was turned off in a training facility in Csepel because it was an anomaly at the handover. What I'm saying is that the chancellor is not lacking in vocational training, so we should look for it somewhere else. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Here are the further speeches by the Members; first, Mr László Pósán, Mr Fidesz.
u2018-11-13-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I wish to deal only with research and development and innovation within this bill, with a brief comment. These wordings or relevant parts of the legislative amendment rely to a large extent on what was said at the University Technology and Knowledge Transfer Forum on 27 May 2018. I think it's important. Regulatory proposals to change and improve the research and technological transfer environment of Hungarian higher education institutions have been made here, and this is basically what the law builds on. Here there was a somma opinion that had to be transposed into legislation. This is to give public funding research centres the right to dispose of intellectual property rights without restrictions. The fact is that the R &amp; D and innovation law keeps the intellectual works produced at research sites in the public domain, which, of course, is not a problem in itself, but in the present situation, when innovation takes place at an accelerated pace in the world, it creates certain barriers. Although the research sites are named by the current law as owners' practitioners, the research site, the university itself, is managing with the intellectual creation, but it still has to be subject to the background rules on state assets. According to the State Property Act, the primary objective of the contracts for the exploitation of state assets is to ensure the efficient operation of state assets, the protection of their state assets, the preservation of their value, the enhancement of their value, and the promotion of the provision of public and public tasks, which is, of course, all right. These objectives are basically designed to preserve state wealth, but in the case of intellectual property, this is difficult to interpret. Here, however, the main goal is to quickly exploit, and one aspect of intellectual property is that it is limited in time. Inventions at research sites can essentially be protected by patent protection, and patent protection, according to the current legislation, lasts 20 years from the date of application, so there is a time limit. If the maintenance fee is not paid or if the protection is annulled or renounced, patent protection may, of course, be terminated earlier. The patent law grants exclusive exploitation rights to the patent holder, but the exclusive right is accompanied by an obligation to exploit them. If the patented person does not provide for the exploitation of the invention within a specified period of time or grants no licence to any other person, then it is clear that other circumstances are necessary to grant such an applicant a compulsory licence for exploitation. As a result of the nature of intellectual works and the primary tasks of the research site, the public research site rarely uses inventions within its own framework, usually transfers them or grants permission to exploit them. As a general rule, the inventor, the person who created spiritual creation, is entitled to the rights of spiritual creation. Among intellectual property rights, transferable persons are transferred to publicly funded research sites. The most typical case in the research sites is the invention of the service, when the inventor develops something on the basis of a job obligation, in Hungarian, an employee of a research site, and the patent belongs to the employer as the successor of the inventor. State wealth rules currently represent, as I have mentioned, certain limits to the exploitation of research results. For example, after the start of the acquisition of industrial property protection, there is a very short time to find an investment partner, to develop a recovery scheme, and it is often impossible to meet the requirements of competitive and licensing procedures. In view of all this, if we are serious about the role of innovation in the future, and this is a key issue for the Hungarian economy, it can already be seen in a number of university centres where there is a very serious living cooperation relationship with industrial companies in Győr, Kecskemét, Debrecen, Pécs, Szeged and many other places, this can be a health industry, automotive industry and so on, a lot of areas, it seems that the obstacles that have been created in the previous laws, which have no good intentions, but are clearly future-oriented, can be adapted to real life, make it more flexible, make it more efficient, so that the processes developed by Hungarian inventions, grey matter, are actually used in the economy as quickly and as much as possible, and that the proceeds can be reinvested for research and development purposes in an even greater proportion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-13-84	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2018-11-13-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that my fellow Member Nacha has left the meeting room. First, he said, and he was outraged about asking you why the opposition is talking about something that has not been discussed with trade unions in connection with this bill. I would suggest that you go on the website of the Teachers' Union very quickly and look at the statement they published. They complain there that there has not been a social consultation, so they ask that this should not be brought before the Parliament, to withdraw it, because it would upset the functioning of vocational training in Hungary. So much for the introduction. I would like to start with what we might be able to agree on, and this is point 5 of the proposal, the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. amendment of the law. In the general statement of reasons, Minister, it is stated that this should be amended in order to improve the innovation ecosystem. We can even agree with these goals, but at least allow us to remind you from the opposition how Hungary's competitiveness indicators are developing. According to the latest survey of the World Economic Forum, Hungary is ranked 60th, according to a list of then 140 countries. This 60th place, if we, let's say, have to compete with internal African countries, we might even have to be happy, but the fact is that our competitors are neighbouring Slovakia, which belongs to the V4 Member States, as well as Poland and the Czech Republic. I don't want to go to Austria, but I can go, because the dog would be buried here because of the Hungarian state's spending on research and development in Hungary in proportion to GDP. [[In the notary seat, Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.]] Let's take a look at these numbers. In Hungary, the R &amp; D sector amounts to 1.2 percent, compared to the Austrian 3 percent level, where GDP itself is much higher. So this amount per capita means that in Hungary we can talk about the pitiful level of EUR 140, but in Austria it reaches EUR 1255 per year, while in the European Union it averages around EUR 600 per country. So we are horribly, horribly behind, honourable Members. Then we should also add that when it comes to the R &amp; D sector, that in Hungary, typically, money is not invested in human knowledge, but rather poured into concrete in many cases. That's the result. The fact that the content of exports and imports is the highest of the V4s in Hungary reveals many things, namely that we are a assembly plant in vain, compared to Poland and the Czech Republic. This should be changed so that we can approach at least Poland, which is ranked 39th on the WEF list and the Czech Republic 31st. [[In the notary seat Dr. László Varga will be replaced by István Szávay.]] Then let's go to the more serious and more controversial section for me. This is the year 2011 CLXXXVII on vocational training. Amendment of law in the bill before us is the second major item, the introduction of the Chancellor's system. [[14.00]] You claim that this will be a guarantee for efficient, responsible and accountable management. Please, the current laws and regulations should be adapted, and these too would be sufficient to meet these objectives, not to include a new governor in the system! Because if these social consultations had been conducted, they would know that a significant proportion of those in vocational training simply do not understand the need to create such a post. They say that Fidesz will have another cadaver cemetery, or, if we want to put it more harshly, it will be about making control total, and through these governors they will be able to control the system into which, on an annual basis, if we talk about vocational training centers, they will put 175 billion forints in it. And then we won't even talk about other tender money. It is a very tough, difficult question, Minister, how and how these new leaders will be chosen. Will the application be open? Because the bill doesn't say a word about it. What we are talking about here is that if you give him his appointment, Minister, this new chancellor, you will have an open application for the post of Director General within 60 days. I'm asking why you can't do that if you're already introducing this system, why don't you think about such a method. Who's gonna be the one to hear his voice? Who are they gonna fill these posts with? Very important posts, since it is necessary to see that the Chancellor will exercise the ownership rights of the vocational training centre in the companies in which the vocational training centre holds shares. So we're talking serious money, too. Besides, if you look at the people who work in the system, it's also about a serious political power, because the new chancellor will rule life and death. Just one example, Minister. The proposal states that the Director-General will only be entitled to determine the salary of the employees with the agreement of the Chancellor. How's that gonna work? So you're teaching at a vocational training center, I do that, a mathematics teacher, and then he's no longer a public servant? What is it? We don't understand. It's not specified, Minister. We ask you very nicely, by the way, to put some sort of order here, because no one can see clearly on this issue. And not just us stupid opponents, but certainly not the Teachers' Union. So it was no accident what I said at the beginning that they would respectfully ask for this bill to be withdrawn in this form. We do not see the reason why a new level of regulation should be included in this system. Once again, if the existing licences were modified, they would be taken more seriously, we believe that these vocational training centres could still function and function better, if appropriate. In addition, the Chancellor's appointment, they argue on the trade union side, with whom there has been no consultation, they say that neither the national public education law nor the provisions of the VET law will meet the expectations of their qualifications. It will be sufficient to have a higher education degree or to hold a leading position in a company for three years. But for me, it's my comma horse. Minister, I am well aware that you like to start from the example of a modern island, where appropriate rightfully, such as Kecskemét. I, on the other hand, usually bring up examples of a country in the ghetto-shattering country, which has fallen into periphery. You should know, Minister, from schools where some nebulos' pets are definitely pit bulls and rottweilers, and their family role models are criminals and loan sharks. There are a lot of problems facing these schools from an educational point of view. And the thing is, if you're thinking about putting a chancellor over there rather than wondering why I'm doing this, why there's no social educator in vocational training institutions, why there's no school social worker, why there's no horribile dictu, let's say, psychologist, which is very much needed, then you're on the wrong path. Because they're looking at this problem from a completely different perspective. And I do not want to question your good intentions, but the fact is that the reality that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, was talking about here, you often look at it from a kind of ivory tower, from under a kind of pink glass dome, and you simply do not want to face these everyday problems. When my colleague from Vinnai here said that they were moving to showcase, that students would be open for days, let us also add why they could only fill up their capacity of 50,000 with 18,000 students. Quite simply because the system, vocational training in Hungary, is not attractive. I have to say that vocational training in Hungary is a dead end in many cases, in many cases a kind of pedagogical shelter, where there is no further movement, which closes the students who are wrong and forced to go there. Combining this with the fact, Minister, that in Hungary there is a very sad system in which you are born, where you are actually staying, so the channels of social mobility are almost completely clogged, and we do not think that these problems will lead to disaster in a region of Hungary, such as the northeast, where the dropout shows something terrible. The thing is, someone's gonna have to pay for this sooner or later. If we refuse to face social costs now, we will have to face it in 10-20 years, if any, 30 years, in a very brutal form. And if we are talking about these problems, then it is not because we want to hurt the government on a day-to-day basis, as an l. art pour l. art, but because you should believe it then, be so kind to us that we do have a sense of responsibility for the future of this country, and if we raise these questions, that is why these questions are. I have just said that only 18,000 people have chosen vocational training in this academic year overall, the vocational secondary schools more precisely, so the former vocational training in Hungary. No wonder, anyway. Because the withdrawal from the system in 2010-11 is something quite amazing. According to Polony's calculations, it was 46 percent. And if the Minister here tells us, on the other hand, what a spring dumping is now pouring towards vocational training in Hungary, then let us also add that in many cases this is merely replacing previous withdrawals. You have to see, once again, that in these schools, students who have basic learning and social skills problems come to most of the time. We educators should take care of that, too. Therefore, we do not understand that if you want to correct, say, the system of vocational training and you really see the problems, then why did you have to reject the proposal to extend the social worker network in schools? Believe me, Minister, in these schools there would also be a huge justification for creating such new posts, not just the appearance of chancellors. If we could see that you have a reception for opening your ears to these problems, then we might be able to come a little more constructively to such chancellor ideas from your point of view, because we could say that yes, then there was a move that was absolutely necessary. This demented training, which means that in many cases... Yeah, dumb-ass training, you have to see what happened to public knowledge classes. They moved towards easier resistance when they reduced the number and proportion of public knowledge classes in vocational training in Hungary by 20 percent. Many of the experts have also said that this is indeed the easier resistance, the running away from the problems on your part, not the confrontation of the problems. Well, there is one more serious issue, and this is the development of digital competences, which we can fully agree with. However, what exactly does this closed system of distance education management mean, Minister, I ask you to try to nuance it a little bit. [[14.10]] Because let us be allowed to, but let us take advantage of the suspicion that, if, let us say, billions of investments are made in this regard, we can easily proceed as with the chalk system, where, Minister, there were errors, and it is also known that it was your former friend or business partner who received one billion forints from the Hungarian state. And this is not where we should begin to forget this problem, either, but, let's say, we should be concerned about the fact that students have only one IT class during the 9th year in vocational schools, so in former vocational school. So if the aim really was to promote the digital education strategy in Hungary and to increase the use of infocommunication systems in vocational training in Hungary, then these numbers, these schedule numbers, should have been changed, and if all this were a serious goal for you, Minister, then it would be unacceptable to have a XXI. In Hungary, it is a century-old, and it promotes competitiveness, so that these students can have one IT lesson a week. This may have gone off in a blue-collar vocational training program. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] CHAPTER XX It was good in the first century, but the 21st century was good. This will not be enough for white collar training in the first century. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi MSZP for two minutes.
u2018-11-13-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to Victor Vinnai, that basically, what he said, we agree with him, but the problem is that he tells us one side of the medal. That not everyone has to get a degree in a country, only a certain layer, yes; that dual training is needed, yes; that sometimes the knowledge of a modern profession is worth more or more knowledge than, say, a degree, it is also true, because the world has changed. We do not have a debate, but the kind of pedagogical and theoretical training that my better fellow Member spoke of cannot be saved. A year and a half ago, I was in Bavaria, in the citadel of vocational training. I asked them what your problem was, tell me one thing you're suffering. They say that no one wants to be a graduate, everyone wants to be in vocational training, but... Agnes, and this was Vice President of the Education Committee, we have directed our eyes to your education system, because the German economy's outposts are here in Hungary, the automotive industry. Please, if your vocational training and public education system continues this way, we will not be able to put it on the production lines of the factories and you will not put the Hungarian workers on it, because they are underqualified at such a level. And you can say, Minister, that there is only one part of him, and that the world of vocational training can also say that we can no longer solve what they have failed to do in public education... [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Mr Németh, yes, foundation training, writing, reading, counting is very important. At the conference of the National Association of Hungarian Entrepreneurs, but also in Davos, entrepreneurs are always asked what politics is about. Teach Hungarian children how to write, read, count and learn foreign languages and a lifetime of learning Hungarian children! This is the main task of politics.
u2018-11-13-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, betterman.
u2018-11-13-89	Mr President, Dear House, I quickly picked up the microphone because fortunately there are so many opinions in this debate, and there is finally a real debate about the need to hang that certain person if he wishes to contribute with new arguments. I would therefore prefer to limit myself to those areas which we have so far had little impact on. I mentioned in a two-minute speech the evaluation of a package of pro-government proposals to address labour shortages in some way, and in this connection we must say that, without a substantial transformation of vocational training, it is virtually impossible for the country to respond to the problems arising from demographic-based labour shortages. You don't have to be an economist. So, looking back for the last year, I've just been thinking about piano on the shore of Lake Balaton, as well as about the hundreds of thousands and even millions of wages. The lack of health care is known to everyone, and it is now also known that in the more prominent places, such as the emergency facility of the Honvéd Hospital on Podmaniczky Street, there is a lack of radiologists, and it has been mentioned in the news that this centre will not be able to provide emergency services, as it is reported that from September it will not have an adequate number of radiologists. We also need to say that if someone wants to call a plumber, they also encounter similar phenomena, as the BKK takes all creative tools to get bus drivers and train them. Obviously, it cannot be the job of vocational training to fill all these holes and solve all the gaps, but it is certainly crucial when we are faced with the fact that 60 percent of young people who are starting their careers wish to acquire higher qualifications and obtain a better system, and even the labour market would be open to them. So once again, I would like to point out to my pro-government colleagues the data between 150 and 200 thousand, which is also said by pro-government experts and opposition experts, that such a mass of labour could and would be immediately absorbed by the Hungarian economy. That is why we have said that, in your opinion, students are moved to certain expos, exhibitions or exhibitions, this is not a professional argument, it is not a professional category. It's a moment, it's a feeling, an impression, which, of course, can be positive in many of everyone's lives, but don't sell it as a professional argument. Therefore, it is interesting, as you stand for vocational training, because the tension in Székesfehérvár regarding Videoton caused the emergence of Ukrainian workers at the expense of Hungarians, Jobbik described this situation in countless speeches, and the man who claims that there are no so-called migrant workers in Hungarian agriculture today. I am amazed at the fact that there is a workforce from India and, by the way, to a large extent, in Hungarian agriculture. This is a disaster, ladies and gentlemen. Many of my family are of Szabolcsi origin, my grandmother was born in a village near Kisvárda, and I can see in the villages the currently inactive labour force which, by bringing it into the system of vocational training, along with a normal dormitory system, would be so skilled that people in Hungary would be able to set foot in real productive, value-added jobs along the competences of Kisvárda or the surrounding small towns. But because of your misguided attitude, many steps are missed, because these inactive young people do not go away, they do not get to the Hungarian vocational training, they do not get to the college, they do not get to the city as workers, taxpayers, but they do get away with many steps, who can, let's say, have two hands, two feet, go abroad to take some job requiring lower education, which may bring him more income for some time or hour, but certainly not the life strategy he decided to adopt when he was younger, and it is certain that in the middle of a demographic winter, it is not for the Hungarian national strategy interests to be served by additional masses to migrate abroad. I would also like to say that experts from more fortunate national economies are not here, than where we are now, how we should unravel, let us say, the system of vocational training, but that, in order to prepare for robotisation, in Germany, the areas where surplus labour will be applied for 10-15 years have already been designated, because thanks to the amazing fast-growing technologies here, it will be understood in a quotation mark in the record that masses will be on the street. For them, we need to find meaningful activities, normal working opportunities, and I do not think that the answer is what I often hear from the liberal side, that there will be unconditional basic income for those who are liberated, so to speak, by robots and production lines, and cannot engage in meaningful activities. It is not possible to settle this situation with the killing of social motivation and with a basic income, but precisely by transforming the economic structure in a reasonable way, it would be possible to identify areas of added value where the Hungarian workforce can be placed in bulk. This should be the subject of certain segments of higher education, this should be subject to vocational training, and there is no trace of such long-term thinking in these proposals. While we can see that according to Jobbik's programme, the 21st edition of the programme is being implemented. The introduction of digitalisation tools into education in the 20th century is a significant point of programme, and on the ground of reality, it is the fact that in a large number of VET institutions, in the last five years, there has been virtually little acquisition of assets, no acquisition of assets or negligible acquisition of assets. [[14.20]] I mean labs and workshops, Minister. If that is not the case, then I would ask you to argue with these opposition arguments with accurate statistics, with a precise reference, because reality shows that this system is bleeding on every eavesdrop. And indeed, it was right for my fellow Member to think that if, in terms of vocational schools, there were only six hours a week left for all that is not a physical education and not a professional object in the narrow sense, how can we contribute to the fact that the citizen from the education system would like to find his calculation here, in this country, as a good, national emotional Hungarian person. And obviously no one can be held back by force from those who go abroad, by the way, by the majority because of your faulty economic policy, but it can be sought with motivations and orientations, so that, in some cases, those in vocational training may also meet an education system where not only a few hours, but not only superficially to strengthen national awareness, or, let us say, to deepen basic knowledge of finance and consumer protection, so that we do not meet the same people later, let us say, as credit-damaged. These are things operating in a system, and this is precisely the systemic thinking that we lack from the government, which would be simply irresponsible in a favourable economic situation, but in the middle of a demographic goal and an emigration spiral is directly bordered by sin. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-13-90	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes, KDNP.
u2018-11-13-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I only pressed the button because of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech, as he mentioned already in his second speech that it is not a parliamentary category that young people are moving to the Expora and that they are waiting for numbers. Congressman, it is also not a parliamentary category for you to say that in some places within the university berks, the judgment of the Chancellor's system is less favourable. It's also not a parliamentary category, in your words, which is why I yelled at you at the time that the numbers speak, because you also asked for numbers for young people going to the Expo. The Chancellery system also shows in the numbers what results have been achieved. And I would just like to add to what he said, for example, that we need to look at youth unemployment, what heritage we received after socialist-Gyurcsány governance in a youth unemployment above 25 percent. The EU average is still above 17 percent, whereas youth unemployment has fallen below 10 percent in Hungary. We're 2.5 percent from the German ratio. So as long as, say, in Italy, Spain, Greece, this rate is still above 25 percent, I think it is a very significant achievement that we have reduced it to less than 10 percent during the eight years we received a nearly 30 percent inheritance. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-13-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said. I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics.
u2018-11-13-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to respond in the order of the comments. We were used to talking about such issues in the afternoon, and it is usually limited to the night, so I am glad that we can discuss educational matters in Parliament at 3:00 p.m. Mr Brenner Koloman's question: thank you, on the one hand, for supporting the Széchenyi Prize. There's a process of selecting the prize winners, and I think there's pretty much no doubt about it here. The possession of university patents, the 15th. §: There are two laws here. The law on higher education has to be changed because, in the case of state universities, patents have become a national asset in the case of state universities, and in the case of universities, this has to be reversed. I think that there was some reading problem here, because they are included as an exception, so we have to conclude a property management contract for the building, for other things, but we do not have to conclude a property management contract for patents owned by the university, so in this sense it is clear that the law caused only reading problems. I think that we could talk about the introduction of the Chancellor's system for a long time, because we mentioned the figures about what the Chancellor's system meant in Hungarian higher education. But let us leave the figures, so, as the Secretary of State said, that in 2014 there was a lack of 13-14 billion, an unpaid amount of accounts for higher education institutions, and then they had somewhere around HUF 60 billion in accounts; today they managed 3 billion, about HUF 300 billion in treasury accounts. This money is there, it's for higher education institutions, and they have to use it for their different cases. So I think the fact that this has become visible is an important thing. What the chancellorship system, by the way, I think is more of a significance, and a number of things that made it possible for us to understand how our higher education institutions work, which we didn't understand before. We simply understood how much we cost, understood what his processes were. This is important because, by the way, I think that Mr Hiller is well aware of both the 2014 and 2016 versions of the higher education strategy, and it says exactly how this system of higher education can be further developed. Without knowing how this works, and it's because of the chancellors, without this type of thing, it's just a risk. I think we know that today. We can build anything on that later. So the chancellor's system will have a lot going on, and I wouldn't compare it to the chancellor's function we're talking about, but I'll get back to that. The question of digital education: all that has happened here is that we have created the legal possibility that digital education is, by the way, a normal form of education. We also use a very wide range of digital platforms today, and the MOOC solutions, which are also very well known in the Hungarian higher education system, but they did not have the legal conditions. This is about creating the possibility of teaching in a higher education institution, a public education institution or a vocational training institution in this way. And how the digital education framework has evolved, I think that the honourable Members, gentlemen, know this very well. The digital well-being programme, including the digital education strategy, describes very precisely what is happening today in all the elements of the Hungarian education system, and how much resources are spent on whether IT provision in schools, the education of teachers, the bandwidth of the network in schools or the creation of Wi-Fi in schools. So I think we agree that we are definitely going in the right direction here. As far as the vocational training issue is concerned, Congressman Hiller raised the question of what this is all about. I think you have the saying that you look like a goose, you're like a goose, and you're flying like a goose, that's probably a goose, so that's what we're talking about. This chancellor is a manager-minded professional leader who performs these functions alongside the Director General of the Vocational Training Centre. Just so we understand what we're talking about, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the vocational training center is the school itself. There is a difference between other elements of the public education system, so the school is not the center at Klebelsberg centers, it is a middle management with maintenance functions. The vocational training center is the school itself, the head of which must be a man with experience. In this way, after talking about vocational training centres with a budget of HUF 20-25 billion, we considered it necessary for a second leader to appear alongside him as a support. I think it's quite typical for companies to put an institution under the control of two managers. This is what happened here, so it has nothing to do with the autonomy of the institution, because the Director General is also appointed by the Minister, the Chancellor. This is a support, support for a competent specialist, who is chosen under the laws in force, as has been the case with the Chancellors. I don't know who told you that the files on the Chancellors were used. Everyone got the records of the chancellors who were otherwise assigned to chancellors. Those who didn't get it, we couldn't give it to them, because their right to privacy would have been severely violated. [[Szabolcs Szabó:]] They were given this so much, who, by the way, asked for it to be published in the press afterwards, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our memories may not be quite the same here. [[Szabolcs Szabó: I remember today...]] So did I, considering you asked me to, and I gave them up. The problems of the vocational education and training system, although not mentioned here in the presentation, are basically technical matters, but since the German vocational training system has been set up here as an example, I have some experiences. Obviously, there may have been a reason for this, of course, that many Turkish and other workers have appeared in Germany, which is why the vocational training system had to be adapted, but the German community places a strong emphasis on not doing such sayings, because this is somewhat different from others. It was simply necessary here because the German vocational training system was not good, not because of the Turkish and not because of the Serbian and Yugoslav immigrants, it was not good, it was not good in itself. In the early 1970s, German companies said that either the German education policy is doing something about German vocational training systems in universities, or they cannot take Germany any further seriously. And here comes the solution, which Mr President has not spoken about, but I think that this is one of the very serious results of the German education system, and by the way, this has spread, this dual training, where companies have said not only that it is not good, but that if it is not good, we should fix it together. And companies joined education, whether at university level or in the vocational training system, in such a way that students in the vocational training system or university students who agreed to learn more were taught at the same time at school, were taught at the same time at the company, and when they finished the particular type of school, vocational training or university, they immediately became able to work effectively. [[14.30]] This was, by the way, the kind of innovation in the German institutional system that led to it being applied in so many places in the world today. Hungary, and I think that we can be proud of this, applies the dual training system very well, both in vocational training and in higher education. After both of us teaching at university, we're just getting to a different topic, I think we're good at applying it. Today, by the way, one third of those students in vocational training who are studying in vocational training institutions today are 110,000 students. They study in dual form. So they get income, they get a corporate environment, and besides, they learn a lot of things at school, and they have a very good outcome. In higher education, more than 2 thousand students who study in dual form were written in the law in 2014, and this form of education began from 15 onwards. We've come this far. 600 companies also cooperate with higher education institutions in dual training, and this has another effect. Not only have we chosen such a complicated form of training, but there is an automatic relationship between higher education institutions and companies, which means exactly how we can otherwise shape this relationship in the future. This is true of both types of institutions, by the way. Mr Hiller pointed out that here we have removed the vocational training system and universities from the labour market. I think the 2014 higher education strategy is about the opposite, it is about approximation, we just want it, we wanted it, and we actually implemented it, that the labour market does, tell us its needs and then take part in this training. This includes dual training, including the fact that we are now able to employ professionals in higher education institutions and to take into account the accreditation criteria, who do not have a scientific degree. That's how it is in Germany, anyway. So I think we're in the right direction with this thing. Thus, the limitation of the relationship between higher education and the business sector does not exactly characterize the current amendment, either in the last four years as described in the higher education strategy or the corresponding legislative amendments. As to the question of whether it is a question of budgetary research, it was basically only about universities, and patents produced by the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences are the property of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. There's no question of that. There is the second part of the amendment of the law... in Hungarian laws it is not appropriate to describe words such as clarifying the rules of spin-off businesses. But that's basically how an institution should be involved in a spin-off business itself, let it be a research institute. The rules so far have not allowed this, but all experience has shown us that the OECD has serious studies around it, that it should also be possible for the inventor not only to appear in the spin-off business but also to appear in the institution. So that's exactly what this amendment part is about, to make this case simpler. And as I said, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences owns its own property, as it is a public body whose property is protected by a lot of things, such as the Fundamental Law. Therefore, this finding does not apply to them. Gergely Arató raised a lot of things: Chancellors put the institution under pressure, and otherwise, we are blocking the possibility of digital education. I admit that manly, I don't understand what it means. The reason I do not understand is because the programme, which is part of the digital education strategy, describes exactly what we are doing in Hungary, and we have made progress accordingly over the past four years. I would suggest that anyone who hasn't seen this really look at it, because it's a very good program. This is said not only by us, but also by people who look at Hungary from the outside, and otherwise the measures that are based on this strategy are taking place accordingly. The fact that we have not sat down with the profession in this matter, or are not generally consulting with the profession in the field of vocational training, obviously it is not up to the ladies and gentlemen of the House to follow the matters of vocational training at this level. Three months ago, we established a Vocational Training Innovation Council, called SZIT, which had four meetings. Everyone here, including trade unions, appears in this council, and there is no matter that this Vocational Training Innovation Council will not discuss. Indeed, there was no formal consultation in this case. The fact that the country is obsessed with the problems of vocational training is difficult to interpret, so to say, because if that were the case, let's say companies such as BNV did not choose Hungary two months ago. So, if the standard of vocational training were so terrible, what Congresswoman Kunhalmi said here compared to Bavaria, that would probably not have been the decision. I had the pleasure of taking part in the negotiations, and then, when this decision was made, what was highlighted by BMW, for example, the quality of vocational training, the technological environment that is in Hungary, and by the way, they chose Hungary. So they didn't support Slovakia, they didn't support Košice, they didn't choose Ukraine, they chose Hungary. In the same way as in the last few months, the many other companies who have chosen Hungary. Just because everyone is having an affair with cars, Jaguar decided a week ago to build its automotive development centre in Hungary. We're not talking about manufacturing anymore. We're talking about vehicle development. Continental decided six months ago to bring the research centre of artificial intelligence to Hungary, the first in the world. These companies do not make such decisions because they think it is good at the time, but they are looking at it enough. So these statements about what, what the quality of it is, I always think that this needs to be a little relativity. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn: this is a double management plan, nothing else. Here two leaders will manage the institution, one responsible for its professional part and the other responsible for its economic part. A vocational training center is not quite like a normal school, so in a vocational training center, the relationship with companies, the case of applications, it looks very different, so it's much more complicated, much more complex than, say, a high school or a high school institution. That is why we need this chancellor function, and once again, both are appointed by the minister, so to assume the cause of educational autonomy is not very worthwhile, and there is no other presumption. As I said, this is what it seems to be, a support at the head of a serious institution, so that we can use those resources more and more resources in the future than before. Tamás Mellar, we would be university professors, although none of us are likely to practice this profession now, although Congressman may have raised the question more than I did about the chancellor, why we did not sanction the rectors more, why this chancellor was needed. Professor, I think you know exactly how the rector is chosen at the university. There's a senate, the senate makes a suggestion, and then someone appoints the rector. If this responsibility had indeed been exercised to a greater extent, let us say that a significant part of PPP schemes were committed as a criminal offence. But the Senate approved it, and the rector signed it. Unfortunately, it's true. [[Gergely Harvestó: Why didn't you press charges?]] We did, we did. And now we're gonna replace them, the ones that were otherwise tied up by another government. Here, however, the government's support for the autonomy of the Rectors, the current minister of that government, has played a strong role in the signing of these contracts by the Rectors. But I think we both know exactly why it was important to the chancellors. This conspiracy theory is that we want to put the MTA research institutes in universities, because the intellectual product owned there will be taken over by the university, and then we will save it for a foundation, which is a little difficult for me to understand. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: We'll see!]] His logic isn't very traceable. That doesn't make much sense. It is simply that if a university has a patent in any form, I believe that here Mr Pósán has made it very clear what the whole story means, then it is that if someone wants to buy this patent, the utilisation of this licence, it is relatively easy for him to conclude a contract with the university, while it is not easy to conclude a contract with the Hungarian National Asset Manager. Not to mention the fact that a large proportion of companies do not want to be involved in this kind of relationship with states or state organisations, because it is complicated, with a university. College's important, state relations are always messier. That's all the reasons for this thing, by the way. That is an interesting line of thought, but I have not yet found the opportunity that Congressman sees. At the chancellors, higher education has lost a great price, Congresswoman Kunhalmi said so. And I think we're not, but in this, I don't think we're gonna be able to get green. The figures now prove that the Hungarian higher education gained basically by understanding its operation with the Chancellor's system. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has left, he has brought up very interesting topics, and we have been a bit off the subject of the presentation. Basically, the situation of the labour market in Hungary is who likes to work in Hungary: I recommend looking at the numbers here, because they are rather stubborn cases. The UN emigration statistics show that around 6 percent of the people born here do not live in Hungary today; they may not work, but they do not live in Hungary. If we look at, say, the same number in Austria, which we say, that it seems to be a better place than Hungary in the eyes of many, there is 6.5 percent in Germany, 5 percent in the Czech Republic, 8 percent in Poland, I think 16 percent, and 40 percent in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact is that this European Union story would be about the fact that the workforce can flow freely; to prevent this, I think, we do not want it, but there are consequences. Among these numbers, however, I think 6 percent seems to be a pretty good number. [[14.40]] What the government is doing in order to ensure that the type of labour market demand in which we agree otherwise is indeed the size of this 150-200 000 labour force demand, how to compensate for this; about 500 thousand is the item that can otherwise be drawn into this. There have been a lot of attacks on the government here because we want to optimise our government operations, and we believe that this will also lead to a reduction. It's one of those things. Then more and more people from the public work programme are transferred to the normal labour market, which proves the success of the programme. And those figures are pretty much visible now, and it is also appropriate to look at them, that a return from abroad has started, and those who, by the way, went to work in Austria on a daily basis, because of the increase in the minimum wage, have started to come home because of attractive conditions in the labour market. Therefore, this needs for the labour market can be secured from these. How attractive the vocational training system is? I told you, 60 percent of kids in age groups, nine-year-olds, go to vocational training. Besides, the fact that there is a transfer between the vocational high school and the vocational high school is the reason why the vocational high school also gives graduation under conditions that allow you to continue to study, so many people thought that they had gone to vocational high school to go to vocational school. It's not a dead end training, it's practically the same as the possibility of going to college in high school. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, the dropout. So, Congressman, the thing is, dropping out is a subject that can't be solved in vocational school. So if anyone thinks that a vocational school alone is capable of solving the dropout of children that have been sent there, that's not gonna work. But I also have good news: that the government has introduced compulsory kindergarten, so that from the age of three, all children have to go to kindergarten, now that's a solution. For example, the fact that the schools in Kisfalus are under state reserve means that there is a teacher, there is a teacher, there is a salary, there is equipment in the school and there is heat, so you can go to school. A child who gets into school at the age of six and doesn't have the basic social skills or other skills is taken there, not in the eighth grade, that's where they're taken. The three-year kindergarten, going to kindergarten, this problem seems to have started to be solved. There are already numbers, and I propose to look at the results of the PIRLS measurement, the background calculations, which clearly show that for children who were already 87 percent in kindergarten, I think that was the number at the time, we didn't reach 100, and otherwise they went to a school where the state provided the conditions, and we call them children from disadvantaged situations, the learning outcomes here have become much higher than the international average, while for the TIMSS measurement two years earlier, which follows the same methodology, there was much lower. So it has an impact; obviously we will see this when these children reach the fourth grade in part and reach the eighth grade. The solution must be sought here in the school system, and I think that we have found this solution to a significant extent. Competitiveness, Mr. Balázs Ander. We're in 48th place, by the way, not 60th, the two numbers are a little far apart. You mentioned the RDI expenditure in 2016, it was 1.2 per cent, it is true; in 2015 it was 1.38 per cent, and in 2017 it was also 1.33 per cent, so let's add this. The good news is that this was a strong increase in GDP, and by the way, if we look at 2002..., 2003 is exactly the moment when we created the Innovation Fund, from then until 2017, we were talking about HUF 540 billion of RDI expenditure here in 2017, which was HUF 180 billion in 2002, so it increased significantly. There is, of course, a case in all strategies where public spending needs to be increased to a greater extent, and corporate expenditure needs to be given an opportunity to increase even more. The fact that GDP is growing and this figure does indeed look like this in proportion, and I am, in principle, delighted. One thing is certain: by 2020, we will be able to achieve the 1.8 percent target based on our current calculations. In the European Union, this will be around 2.2 percent, and there are indeed countries in the European Union where they have reached 3 percent, in a completely different state, but the average of the European Union is around 2-2.2%. He asked me a question about how the incomes are going. The teacher's career model also determines their income, so here we were talking about the chancellor's thing about other functions. The selection is carried out according to Kjt., as was done in the case of the university chancellors, this is fully regulated. As for the matter concerning myself, I would like to tell you, too, we have said it many times here, not in any decision concerning any of the gentlemen mentioned, I was not in a position to make a decision, because I was not here in part before 2014 when the Neptune decisions were made, and in 2016, I am sorry, in 2015, when the other decision was made, and I was in charge of higher education. So I understand presumption, but it doesn't necessarily reflect reality. I think that I have answered pretty much all the questions, and now, in addition to the fact that we are a little off the subject, I would like to thank everyone for their support. I think that the cases here are positive, and they are eligible, and I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-94	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following the turn of the 2019 year II. General discussion of the proposal for a decision declaring Ferenc Rákóczi Memorial Year until closure. Presentation by representatives of Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey, István Németh Szilárd, Richárd Hörcsik and Ferenc Koncz H/3355. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-13-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would ask you to allow me to begin the resolution proposal by presenting the course of the great prince's life, and to mention some of the most important aspects of your life. I am doing this because I would like to support it and ask you from the very beginning to support this proposal. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi is one of the most well-known and popular figures in Hungarian history, his name is hundreds, if not thousands of public spaces and institutions, and the folk tradition connects several wooden trees and water resources to his person. Its birthday, and 27 March, has been our national memorial day since 2015. The great popularity of the prince is indicated by the fact that the famous portrait of Adam Mányoki has been looking back on us for more than a century now about the bills. Our days are now 300 years apart from his age, so we can rightly ask: why is the turquoise and the memory of the controlling prince so vividly in our national consciousness? It is well known that the eight-year Rákóczi War of Freedom was the culmination of the anti-Habsburg fights, and we owe it most to the period of national independence and the creation of an independent national army. In addition to various individual interests and aspirations, it was the main issue even in the prince's time, which is, of course, in the new historical situations and today, as well as in the whole XX. Our first concern was how we can determine the relationship between Hungary and Europe, how we can shape the continent, and how the continent is shaping us. Hungary was connected to the western part of the continent through the Habsburg empire. The fact that our nation was able to achieve this in better conditions after the expulsion of the Turks played a major role in the Second World War. Our freedom fight marked by the name of Ferenc Rákóczi. The long-standing serious internal dispute ended for a long time with the peace of Satmar, the reconciliation of the royal house and the Hungarian order. [[14.50]] The prince and his most loyal adherents chose emigration, while the former curts and labs worked together on the new arrangement of the country. Rákóczi's name became a concept, a symbol. CHAPTER XXI Rákóczi's person is the ultimate freedom-loving man of the century. If we are looking at the stages of his life, we need not only the Carpathian Basin, but almost the whole of Europe. The town of Borsi, the small town of Bodrog, which is now the Slovakian town of Felvidék, was born and settled in the Košice dome. The locations of his childhood were followed by Vienna, followed by the Czech Republic, and at the end of his studies in Italy he married in the cologne dome. Returning to his estates, he lived in Szerencsen, Sárospatak, Nagysáros, Kistapolcsány, followed by the captivity in Vienna. Escaped from here, he found refuge in our brothers, Poland. In addition to the battlefields and castle fights of the Freedom Fight between 1703 and 11 we must mention the stations of state organisation, the national conventions in Szécsényi, Onod, Nail and Sárospatak, as well as the location of the Prince's election in Gyulafehérvár, as the anniversary of the resolution proposal, the 315th anniversary is related to this point. Finally, the grand ceremony of the occupation of the Transylvanian throne in Marosvásárhely cannot be excluded from the list of the prince's life stations. Finally, Rákóczi fled to Poland again and then left for France and Turkey. He ended his life on the coast of the Marble Sea in Rodosto. His heart was buried in Grosbois, France, and his body in Constantinople, and his ashes were only buried in Košice in 1906. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, it is out of the question that, on the basis of the life - style described, The person and activity of Ferenc Rákóczi are fully capable and worthy of commemoration and representation of the principles he represents in this day and age. He is a worthy representative of the characteristic of the roots of the Hungarian nation, of the love of freedom and the desire for independence, and of the events to be held in modern form in connection with the Memorial Year. With the proposal for a decision, the commemorative year is II. Ferenc Rákóczi is also a protection of the Transylvanian prince's legacy. Let us hope that with such occasions we can contribute to the proper care of the prince's inheritance, and through this to the strengthening of our entire nation, since the decision would be worthy of the memory of the prince both in the motherland and in the Hungarians living beyond the border and in the diaspora. They are related to the Memorial Year, they can be associated with scientific and educational, grace and traditional, touristic and gastronomic programs, events, with all of this the II. The tradition surrounding Ferencet Rákóczi can still become a tool for nation-building and networking. Ladies and gentlemen, The motion for a resolution before you, please support me. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-96	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Thank you, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, for allowing Member István Hiller, who later led the meeting, to advance and now to give his speech as a speaker on behalf of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-13-97	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Honourable Secretary of State and Presenters! Our group considers this proposal to be correct and useful. We think that the Hungarians, the whole nation, will strengthen their identity if II. Ferenc Rákóczi is constantly remembered and reminded of the prince's way of life, activity, political and other effects in his life and age, and then in the memory of later generations, we do not simply accept it, but pass it on in confirmation. Ferenc Rákóczi's life path has been studied, researched and made a number of important and exciting findings that are full-scale. On July 8th, 1704 he became Prince of Transylvania, because he was elected by the National Assembly of Transylvania to the Prince of Transylvania. This action took the position, as a whole, that a sovereign state, a state that had previously been actively involved in international politics, could establish international relations as the first man of the independent Transylvanian Princeship, since the international perception of the freedom struggle that broke out in 1703 was doubtful. In order to acquire an alliance and an ally on the opposite side of the Habsburg empire, especially with regard to France, the Transylvanian princely title was necessary. Therefore, of his ascendant ancestors, however I look at it, if only Zsigmond Rákóczi, György I. Rákóczi, II. We are looking at György Rákóczi and his father Ference Rákóczi I, then there were four Transylvanian princes, and therefore it was very timely and justified. At the same time, please don't let us see you as a demigod. He was a serious thinker, sometimes able to stand against his own interests. The Secretary of State rightly mentioned the establishment of an independent Hungarian force and, not just after centuries, worked to establish the international representation of our country. He was a great man. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the Transylvanian Parliament's submission to the Habsburg Empire on 14 November 1711. Then he was already in Poland. At the beginning of the last century, a great historian, Gyula Szekfű, wrote in his book The Exiled Rákóczi, in Poland and then France, especially in Paris. It had such an effect, I am not talking about the press, but about the butcher who went to buy fresh meat every week, who told him that after writing such a book, he would not give him an unpublished letter in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences' manuscript. After that, he wrote the Witches of what have I done? Who abused Rakoczi? His work. We see a man in it. A man who gave his life for this country, and then in exile, in Poland, and then in France, was really trying to ensure the survival of his personal and policy by some questionable means. These may be sadder parts than the ones from Rodosto. To be clear, he carved bed legs there. He wanted to return to his country, but there's no way he could have done that. Then, when the petitioners, Mr. Secretary of State, are very right to make this motion to remember Rákóczi, I would very much ask that we remember him as a politician in this country, but not a man floating above clouds. It was fallible. He knew a lot about the country, and he knew a lot about social conditions. They loved him. They walked alongside him in combat and went to trial with him in such a way that I could actually say XX, so it wasn't XXI. It is a century-old expression that the broadest social layers considered him to be the leader of this country. [[15.00]] Of course, there were stages in his life that were also revealed by historical writing, and that belong to this man, this living and mortal man, as well as to the greatest moments. I think that we are worthy... of today's Hungarian Parliament, if not only by keeping Ference Rákóczi in the memory of the nation, but by strengthening him as a great thinker, a brave politician and a flesh and blood man, we can preserve him in the memories of future generations. I sincerely hope that we are one in this, and we can be one throughout the Rákóczi Memorial Year. We therefore support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-13-98	Thank you, Congressman István Hiller, Mr Vice President. I give the floor to Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, and give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller.
u2018-11-13-99	Inclítae gentis Hungarae volnera, i.e., the old wounds of the glorious Hungarian nation are renewed. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, These lines begin with II. Ferenc Rákóczi, Christiani Universis orbis, a manifesto for Christians of the world, which accounts for the grievances suffered by the Hungarian nation and the unconstitutional acts that our ancestors have suffered since the end of the last remains of the Turkish rule, thanks to the Vienna court. In June 1703 and the following year, this was not lost. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It was still not acceptable to the Hungarians that the rulers from the Habsburg House did not represent the interests of the Hungarians, but sacrificed our nation on the altar of their partial goals many times. Yes, it is handed to foreign hands, we see that the land is being handed to foreign hands, that it is being eliminated or that the most important institution of the Hungarian state is being taken to an imperial level, and that they can do so because the last instrument, the last instrument, has been lost to the Hungarian orders against the foreign powers, so that they can enforce their interests. Yet there was a man who had been predestined by his upbringing, abilities and talents, so to speak, to take the lead in the bravery of the interests of the Hungarian people, so that he could do everything he could to change that. Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Hiller said, it is indeed possible to fill libraries with who was and what was done by Mr II. Ferenc Rákóczi. On the occasion of the 315, anniversary of the election of the Parliament in Targu Mures, or Transylvanian prince, let us dedicate a commemorative year to the great majority of our nation, and I would like to add that this House can take the decision on the 310th anniversary of the Sárospatak Parliament. This basically places a double task at this exceptional moment on elected representatives to defend Hungary's interests today: II. The legacy and memory of Ferenc Rákóczi. To point out, on the one hand, the universality of all the values he has declared, and to make it clear that his whole life is still a learning lesson. In view of this, we should also point out how it is appropriate to fill this commemorative year with content, how we can create the conditions for a worthy memory in the year 2019. Ferenc Rákóczi. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this latter task can only be fulfilled if we point out the life and actions of our controlling prince, and we make it clear that, to date, there must be binding foundations for us, legislators, when considering our own activities or our actions. Ladies and gentlemen, ANNEX II In 1705, Ferenc Rákóczi used these words to define the purpose of the fight for freedom, and I quote: "We strive to serve not only the nation but also the universal Europe and the Christian cause by regaining the freedom of our country. We know well, my fellow Members, that the prince lived at a time when his country was destroyed, although his wealth and circumstances would have allowed him to do so, but we could simply say that he was on the side of the truth, as opposed to the weapons of the imperial armies, accepting the possibility of loss of heads and cattle. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi realized that the truth was not on the side of the Viennese court, not the Neoaquistica Commissio, or the New Mercenary Committee, not the Emperor's mercenaries, not the labans, not the path of the eternal conformists, who were always expecting instructions from someone else without conviction. ANNEX II Besides the Kurucs, Ferenc Rákóczi raised the flag not against Europe, but for Europe, not against the Christian cause, but by serving it, under which the freedom-loving Hungarians and Ruthenians, nobles and destitutes, fought by thousands of experienced and youthful forces. We know the flag of Ferenc Rákóczi. Subtitles by Cum Deo pro Patria et Libertate It's a message in itself. Those who considered both God and the independent Hungarian state to be enemies could not take it to heart. I believe that Rákóczi's choice of value clearly and clearly shows the way in which we are to take the 21st century. You have to walk in the first century. That is why we can choose him as a model and remember him as a representative of Hungarian interests and Christian faith. I believe it's II. After 315 years, Ferenc Rákóczi's programme is still valid, all-powerful, still-to-day, and the evidence and the consequence of this is the proposal for a resolution that I have tabled with my fellow Members. Dear House, I believe it's II. Ferenc Rákóczi's memory may also be capable of creating unity, unity with the peoples whose memory did preserve him. For the Slovaks, the Ruthenians, or our Polish brothers, the same common denominator is the memory of the ruling prince, as did II. Ferenc Rákóczi also earned the respect of our eastern neighbours, the Romanians. At the same time, unity creation has another dimension. As a well-willed man, we cannot cease to believe that those who are trying to narrow down the circle of matters that are the subject of public agreement over the parties again and again will deepen the conflicts to the extremes, so that they can accept once, for at least one moment, that the turns of our common past are about nothing but the survival instincts of Hungarians and our struggles for freedom, which are still binding on us today. And II. Ferenc Rákóczi can also create unity among those who are removed by a small quarrel or a difference of opinion, who cannot agree because they do not understand each other because they do not understand what is really important. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the knowledge of the driving forces behind the leadership prince's actions can bring us all closer to strengthening the common foundation. [[15.10]] ANNEX II In Ferenc Rákóczi's life, it has been shown many times that the beating of the heart is not the blood of the heart, but the beating of the heart. This is why the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports this resolution proposal, because we can fully identify with the values that Ferenc Rákóczi conveys. Dear House, In the old words, the national representatives of the resolution proposal before us can say: the fact that the representatives of the former settlements numbered among the acceding authors of the Parliament may also be there, my fellow Member Ferenc Koncz about Szerencs and my humble person about Sárospatak is symbolic for the voters sent to Parliament. I believe that Genius Loci, the spirit of the place, cannot be ignored now: Zemplén Vármegye, Sáros, the people of Transcarpathia, Szabolcs II. The past of Ferenc Rákóczi's army. The people of the villages, the most difficult people, went to war and risked their lives, they took care of the soldiers, and they first attempted to turn against the representatives of the foreign powers that trampled on the Hungarian constitution, as they used to say in the summer of 1697 in Tátonaljaújhely, as they used to say, at the New Place Fair, and in events known as the Uprising of the Mountains. It is therefore clear to us, ladies and gentlemen, that we can only pursue a policy, it is worth creating a programme that takes into account places in the history of Hungary, even its cultural heritage, which is no longer within the country, but outside the borders of the state. The civil government has already done a lot to ensure that II. Keep the built heritage of the future generation connected to Ferenc Rákóczi. I am happy to report that at the time of the birth of the governing prince, the castle in Bors is currently under construction for some HUF 1.6 billion, and we hope that by 2020 we will be ready to bring this castle to a decent state, because it is important for us that we not only renovate an old castle, but also have a significant role to play in this construction II. In the memory of Ferenc Rákóczi, besides the Hungarian people, in the history of Slovaks and Ruthenians. Ladies and gentlemen, In his memoir, II. Ferenc Rákóczi put it this way, and I quote: "The purpose of all my actions was only the love of freedom, and the desire to free my country from the stranger walk. I didn't want revenge, I didn't want a crown or a principality, I didn't want to be in the mood for government: I was driven solely to fulfill my duty to my country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that the citizens of Hungary soon recognized the exceptionalness of their life and role. For example, in the post-concordation era, all the county and all the cities of the country turned to the House of Representatives in a sign when their ashes were brought home in 1906. According to the inscription of the county of Zemplén, the pledge of the nation's future is the mercy of the past, or according to the city of Debrecen, Rákóczi, fought for the protection of civil rights, so that free and independent citizens can live in their free country and be one in their hearts, souls, deeds and minds. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I think that the lines of Mihály Vörösmarty set the framework of action for us:. Here lies the prince of your country, cast out from there, because there was no freedom in it. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Ferenc Rákóczi's ambitions, as we have heard from fellow Members, are still current: the freedom and independence of our country is above all to build a state that serves and does not serve the Hungarian nation, a state that can assert its own interests, which strengthens the national cohesion of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, a state that protects Hungary and Europe's Christian roots and values as a basis for its survival. In view of this, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association calls on our fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gergely Farkas, is next. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-101	Thank you very much. Send a message to the future generation of children in Hungary to respect their country and to appreciate that they can live on this earth. Keep your valuables and memories. Talk about him like he's a treasure. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. I was quoting Ferenc Rákóczi's thoughts, even because his personality and the ideals and events of the freedom struggle he led can all be examples that can help us to do what he said in this quote; to strengthen respect for the country in the young generation, the appreciation, the preservation and care of our values and memories, which are all very important for the future generation. We were very pleased to welcome this proposal here when we saw the submission, just because I don't know who doesn't remember it, because in 2011 Jobbik's proposal aimed the same. In 2011, my colleague Zsolt Baráth and I presented the proposal to initiate the Rákóczi Memorial Year. We were aiming at 2013 for the 310th anniversary of the outbreak of freedom. We regret that it was not important for Fidesz at the time, because it was voted down several times, but we are glad that it came to the House a few years later, and we hope that this Memorial Year will come to pass next year, and that a Memorial Day will come to pass. The question must also be raised, however, that all the things about which a commemorative year has rightly come up in you and in us earlier are not necessarily only important for the Hungarians in a given year, but that these values are worth remembering year after year at a more serious level, at a higher level; as in 1956, for example, there has been a commemorative year recently, but we also commemorate the events of 56 every year on 23 October. From this point of view, the Rákóczi Freedom Fight, the person of Ferenc Rákóczi and the event of the Freedom Fight can also be something that may not have to be remembered for up to a year, but should be remembered year after year. There is Rákóczi Memorial Day for a few years, but let's be honest, a memorial day alone is not enough to complete the mission that is important for such an event. Therefore, as an attempt to think, it would be worth sacrificing a national holiday in connection with the person of Ferenc Rákóczi and the fight for freedom, even because he can be a role model for us in many ways. We know very well that at the beginning, he kept himself away from politics, but when he called home, so to speak, when such historical challenges were worth our country, he felt the nation's grievances, he took on the mission that he had to take, and as he had said in previous speeches, if he had only looked at his own interests, he would not have done so, because he would have just lost his property, later in exile, that he had to live away from his country, and many other things. Nevertheless, he took on the mission that addressed him in that historic situation and did not step away from him, he did not shift responsibility to anyone else, but took the lead in this struggle. His person is an outstanding example of love and freedom for home, which can be exemplary for all of us, the embodiment of uncompromising, he was a fighter of endurance to the end, a pure and honest leader, which, unfortunately, is not very common in Hungarian history. Fortunately, there are some similar personalities, but the person of Ferenc Rákóczi is among the first. His person was able to create a unity within the Hungarians, which could span through religious divisions, or even about who came from what social class. This is also a very important lesson for today, when unity is often missed in Hungarian society. So many, many of these values can be listed, so that his person can be exemplary. [[15.20]] My fellow Member, Richard Hörcsik, has repeatedly emphasised the term unity here. In this connection, let me make a concrete proposal, with which I believe that the Hungarian Parliament could set an example in respect of the person of Ferenc Rákóczi and in showing the unity of the nation, namely that this proposal should not only be tabled by pro-government representatives, but that opposition factions should also be represented as submitting persons, joining the motion. I think that this is how the words spoken by Richárd Hörcsik would be credible, that if they give a representative of the opposition factions the opportunity to do so, even because, as I said, we ourselves initiated this years ago. So I ask you that if we agree on the level of words and all of us remember the expression of unity about Ferenc Rákóczi, then let us now show that we believe this and are able to apply it in actions. I would also like to share some thoughts on the Memorial Year, just because if we target the young generation, but of course we must target the entire society with such a commemorative year, but I think that for me and for many of us young people, as the future generation, it will be very important to have an example of how to make good use of the means of communication through which young people can be reached today. A memorial or other more traditional thing may not get to this generation. It is important that we take advantage of social media and other opportunities that are much more able to find their way. It may also be important for as many people as possible to visit and visit the persons of Ferenc Rákóczi and the places associated with the fight for freedom, not only Košice, Ónod, Szécsény or many other settlements, but also as many such settlements as possible. But it is also important that in these settlements there should also be content, a program that captures young people. We know that this is not currently available for some locations that are connected to Ferenc Rákóczi. I hope that they will make progress in this respect as regards the Memorial Year, that if a young or less young person thinks that he or she is leaving for such a location, then they can receive it with content and programs that can convey to him the values that this Memorial Year is about, and can be part of a meaningful program. Overall, therefore, we consider this Memorial Year to be important. We hope that you will be open to the suggestions made here. And in the person of Ferenc Rákóczi, I think that the consensus and unity will be revealed here by all the factions, and the commemorative year and the programmes that will be held within it will truly fulfill their hopes if the inscription on the flag of the War of Independence, which well sums up Rákóczi's vocation: Cum Deo Pro Patria et Libertate with God for his country and freedom, can be carved into the hearts of as many Hungarians as possible. In this way, I thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-13-102	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, is next. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, I thank those who spoke before me, Szilárd Németh, Vice-President Hiller and Richard Hörcsik for telling me the things with which they were worthy of remembering II. Prince Ferenc Rákóczi, that these events led us so far that we can now discuss the proposal for a decision to be declared a commemorative year next year. I would rather talk about the fact that when three years ago the commemorative years of national political and national strategic importance began, and the National Assembly each time presented a kind of memory and content to some historical personality, it obviously did so because, on the day of the Hungarian language precisely, we can say that their national identity is based on our mother tongue and our common history, including our desire for freedom, our Christian culture and those historical personalities who have done a great deal for these values. Thus, in 2016 the Márton Áron Memorial Year, in 2017 the Szent László Memorial Year, and this year the King Matthias Memorial Year can be attributed to this line. Here I would also like to thank two people who have invented these and filled them with content. On the one hand, Mr Árpád Potápi State Secretary, who undertook that the leadership of the State Secretary for National Policy and his entire team would stand behind these commemorative years and secure resources, guaranteeing the programmes and human resources, were carried out. On the other hand, Gergely Gaal is a former KDNP Member who has always been at the forefront of these initiatives. We see that we pay tribute to the memory of the Rákóczi War of Liberty and II. Before the election of Ferenc Rákóczi. This is also the date, 315 years next year, when he was elected Prince of Transylvania II. He's gonna take Ference. The motto has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Farkas: Cum Deo Pro Patria et Libertate. The motto of KDNP is the same to this day; our predecessors, the founders of KDNP, bought this slogan from here, and to this day it is the slogan of our party. It has also been said that one of Hungary's most important freedom fights was the II. The fight led by Ferenc Rákóczi, which lasted from 1703 to 1711. This event and spirituality are also intended to commemorate it. It is important that not only the event, but also spirituality appear, because the Rákóczi Ferenc Memorial Year not only commemorates a noble man struggling for the freedom of his country, but is the symbol of Rákóczi's spirituality that is capable of subjecting his life to a higher purpose, a higher cause, is able to sacrifice and unite. And by forging nobility and serfdom, he laid the foundations for social progress that was unprecedented in Europe for another hundred years. The revolution failed, but Rákóczi's struggle was not in vain, because they could not completely melt our country into the Habsburg Empire, recognized religious freedom and restored the Constitution, and the fighters received amnesty. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi was forced to emigrate, but he became a national hero, his memory is still preserved in all the settlements of the country and in the torn parts by squares and street names. Gergely Farkas also said that it is Rákóczi Memorial Day, on 27 March, the Parliament made its decision in 2015. But I think that both the Memorial Day and the Memorial Year will only set the framework, we must fill it with content, the traditional associations, the politicians and the schools in the national political activity must fill the Memorial Day with content each year and the commemorative year ahead. I would also like to point out that my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, mentioned that it is important to address young people, to use modern tools and social media. This has been highlighted in the last three commemorative years, but especially in the St. László and Matthias King's Memorial Years, and has been given priority by the organizers. But since this is a very important initiative, and as I see it, supported by everyone, the coordinating body of the commemorative year will obviously welcome your proposals, any proposal, programme or instrument implementation proposal. I would like to say that the past commemorative years that I have listed, and the next Rákóczi Memorial Year, are also an opportunity for Hungarian communities in Hungary and abroad to celebrate and remember the historical personality to whom we wish to commemorate. It is very important that sister settlement relationships are established, travelling exhibitions, conferences. The conference of the King Matthias Memorial Year will be here tomorrow in the Upper House Hall. I think that what means national cohesion is the many, many events, when they go from Felvidék to Transylvania, from Transylvania from Transcarpathia to South-Hungary, communities, traditional associations, are extremely important, they create important relations in the areas that have been torn apart and obviously also in their relations with Hungary. That is why it is important to maintain the cult, the memory that II. He's surrounded by Ferenc Rákóczi. For example, two years ago a statue of Ferenc Rákóczi was handed over in Zboro, located in the territory of today's Slovakia, made by a Hungarian sculptor and financed by the Hungarian government. I think that we need to get the messages and the spirituality represented by the historical personality that we are about to commemorate outside our borders. Of course, the KDNP fraction supports the proposal and thank you very much to the authors.
u2018-11-13-104	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Potápi if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[On the sign of János Potápi Árpád:]] There you go. You have the floor. [[15.30]]
u2018-11-13-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the authors and key speakers for their presentation and speech. I believe that the proposal for a resolution has already achieved its objective, since we have heard those speeches here in the Parliament this afternoon, and I can safely say, perhaps, that veritable speeches that were worthy of the memory of Prince Ferenc Rákóczi. Perhaps we should consider discussing not only the Memorial Year in a similar manner, but also in other days of the year when we are discussing other issues. Many people have told us much about the life of Ferenc Rákóczi, the struggle for freedom, the fight for freedom, the age of Rákóczi. I think that almost 80% of my speech has been exhausted, and I don't want to repeat the same thing, but let me highlight a few things from the government. The political creed of the great prince, as many have mentioned, is three of the most important elements that stand before us today, and perhaps eternal: Hungarian freedom, the achievement of Hungarian freedom, the creation of a strong Europe and the protection of Christian faith and Christian culture. Ferenc Rákóczi lived at a time when the question was about Hungary's existence and absence, when Hungary was on the brink of stump in all respects, when it was questionable that the 7-8 year old whether we can carry our culture any further, whether it is even possible to talk about Hungary as a people or a nation. In a positive way, it has contributed to this existence. Ferenc Rákóczi and the freedom fight he led, which, as you mentioned, took place between 1703 and 1711. This freedom struggle and freedom struggle have also been the reason why we can talk about the Hungarian nation, we can talk about the further history of this people, we can talk about 1848, we can talk about 1956 and we can talk about 1989-90, about the change of regime; and not only about the independence of the Hungarian people, Hungary, the Hungarian nation, but also about the independence of Central Europe. When II. We are talking about Ferenc Rákóczi, not only a national prince, one of the most outstanding historical personalities of the Hungarian nation, but, as Vice-President István Hiller said, my fellow Member, we also need to talk about the man. So it's not just about that, it's about the fact that in the Central European scale he was an excellent personality, a pharaoh who gave hope to other nations with his life and work at that time. He had hoped that an era would come when these nations could become independent. And yes, in addition to the unity of the Hungarian nation, it can also create the unity of the Central European or the Carpathian Basin nations and nationalities, because besides the Hungarians it can address the Ruthenians, it can use the language of the time to address your lake, or by using the Slovaks today, through its mother, Ilona Zrínyi, who is a descendant of the Zrinyi and Frangepans, can address the Croatians and, of course, also address the Romanians. I believe that when the Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin and the Hungarianness of the diaspora are addressed in connection with the Memorial Year, then here is our chance, even our historic opportunity to address the other nations of the Carpathian Basin in relation to the Memorial Year, to turn Transcarpathia into this Memorial Year, to turn on today's Slovakia, if possible, today's Romania and Croatia, not only the Hungarians, but also the majority nation living there. Yesterday I met with Mr Rigó Konrád, Minister of Culture, from Slovakia, who I mentioned this Parliamentary resolution proposal, who I asked at our informal meeting and meeting that, if possible, some cultural institution in Slovakia or Slovakia should also join as soon as possible, as possible. I do not have vain hopes if we address Ukraine at state level, they are unlikely to join, but it would also be possible to discuss this with Transcarpathia County, as I believe we can trust Croatians. Two major national political forums will be held this week, the 8th meeting of the Hungarian Diaspora Council will take place on Thursday, and the zeroth day will start tomorrow, and Prime Minister will open the ordinary meeting on Thursday. A meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference will take place on Friday, in the presence of Prime Minister. These meetings, forums, have so far been designed to determine the commemorative years of the Prime Minister's Secretary of State for National Policy and to propose to the government what these commemorative years should be. It is true, as already mentioned by my fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa, that in recent years such commemorative years have been very successful, starting from the Márton Áron Memorial Year in 2016, we continued with the Szent László Year in 17 and in 18 we will carry out the King Matthias Memorial Year. As Congressman said, a large-scale conference will take place tomorrow here in the Parliament's Upper House Hall, but in parallel there will be an exhibition and an international conference in Vienna. For my part, I will take part in that meeting, and then I will represent this Parliamentary motion for a resolution in national political forums. We also recommend to both the Hungarian Diaspora Council and the Hungarian Permanent Conference that it be proposed to the Government and now to the Parliament that the following year is the II. It's Ferenc Rákóczi Memorial Year. I can say, and also ask the government, Prime Minister, that the conductor of the commemorative year within the government should be the Secretary of State for National Policy of the Prime Minister's Office and its institution, the House of Hungarians, who also coordinated the last Matthias Memorial Years. Our aim, of course, is to support and address all organizations, NGOs, church organizations, local governments who cultivate the prince's inheritance, working to get the prince's inheritance and creed to the people, and especially the children, young people, whom we are obviously counting on. They can pass on these ideas to other generations, so that the memory of the great prince can live not only in the previous generations and in the awareness of our generation, but also in the awareness of the next Hungarian and Central European generations. In recent years, as has been said, we have supported several of these developments at government level, and I hope that these developments will be implemented both in Borsi and in Zagon, where the renovated Reformed Church was handed over just at the end of the last week, Deputy Prime Minister. We will continue to look for settlements where we need our help. But most importantly, we will win the children and youth of Hungary, Hungary, the Carpathian Basin and diaspora of Hungary. For our part, we are doing everything we can and, of course, we support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you once again to the rapporteurs, to all those who supported the presentation in their speeches, and, of course, to the House, I would like to ask you to support the proposal for a resolution with your vote. Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.40]]
u2018-11-13-106	Thank you very much. We can listen to the views of other speakers. First, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK, please.
u2018-11-13-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I do not wish to build an empire, not a treasure, and nothing else: the true brave Hungarian heart, so that I may live and die with you. .. said II. Ferenc Rákóczi in 1704 in Gyömrő, in his famous speech, when he thought that the fight that started a year earlier could lead to success. Of course, success, as we know, is relative to every revolution and every depressed war of freedom, because the memory of the fallen freedom struggles is also very important, and that in Hungarian history we will certainly carry on these heroic acts from generation to generation, all that have been accomplished for Hungarian freedom and for Hungarian independence. It's always important, with today's head, and then we have this special attitude about what our contemporaries say. For example, Mikes Kelemen said of Rákóczi that God gave many fine talents in this prince. And how important it is not only for the current government to have Hungarian history or even II. The memory of Ferenc Rákóczi, let me remind you that in 2005, on the 300th anniversary of the Szécsény National Assembly, the Gyurcsány government held a parliamentary meeting in Szécsécsény, because it also considered the memory of freedom struggle important and II. The work of Ferenc Rákóczi. In Rákóczi's thinking, the ideal of freedom, the ideal of Hungarian independence were very important, and many memoir quotations could be quoted where he quoted these words, these terms, especially the ideal of freedom. And let me quote from him a sentence that almost rhymes with today's times: "There is nothing more dangerous in the governance of a free people than secrecy, which gives rise to much suspicion and distrust. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ferenc Rákóczi, although of course there is no place for updating here and now, he expressed very important thoughts even at his own age, because I think that the basic rules of politics, the rules of governance or leadership of a country, from the fact that we went back a few centuries or a few centuries in history, have not changed. Finally, let me quote a poem that also confirms how important Rákóczi's memory is. On 21 April 1848, just after the events of 15 March, Sándor Petőfi wrote a poem to Rákóczi, just to gain strength from the freedom hero who preceded the young people of March 1848. I would like to quote the first verse of this verse, "The Holy One of Hungary, the leader of freedom, / Our bright star in the dark night, / Oh Rákóczi, to whom we burn and we weep!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Democratic Coalition is open to Rákóczi's programmes, and I think that the faction will shape its position accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-108	Congressman László Varga, MSZP, please.
u2018-11-13-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to mention in the debate a settlement that played a significant role in the fight for freedom and II. Ferenc Rákóczi's life, and by the way, there is little to say about it. This settlement is none other than my hometown, Miskolc, for the prince was in Miskolc several times during the war of liberty. Specifically, he was housed in the Dőry family mansion, and there's a lot to do with the time of his stay here. By the way, this building still stands, and by the way, the Miskolc Gallery is located here. He was first in Miskolc between 18 January and 3 March 1704. This is where he established his headquarters, from which he regulated the administrative order of his state, so a relatively long time, and a month and a half were his first stay here. His second stay here and his stay in Miskolc began on 21 January 1706, and from the end of January, from 30 January to 16 February, the 24-member Senate met here, in particular in the mansion, i.e. in the building which is now home to the Miskolc Gallery. If we can talk about the Rákóczi Memorial Year here, speak in Parliament, and if I feel that this year is supported by all the factions, then let me suggest to you that both the mansion and the city of Miskolc be located in this memorial year. Support as many programs as possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-13-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will now ask Mr Szilárd Németh, as his representative, whether he wishes to reflect. You have the floor, please.
u2018-11-13-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This was a refreshing item among today's agendas and routines. It seems to me that the proposal for a resolution of the commemorative year presented in connection with the 315th anniversary of the election of the great prince has touched everyone. Each faction experienced unity, unity in this proposal. I was particularly happy with the position of those Members who spoke about the homeland who would like to relate to specific matters in this way. As you said, Professor, in your speech, Mr Vice-President, you would like to be linked to the life's work of the great prince, not with a pátos, but with concrete action. I would like to thank him, thank those who called for the involvement of Hungarians across the border, and, of course, the nationalities of our country-making communities, the nationalities of historic Hungary, who now have their own country and their own country, have also proposed their involvement this year. It was a special experience that everyone, almost every faction, remembered and suggested that one thing would be very important in this commemorative year, so that we could give young people an example or an example of this item on the agenda. I'm sorry that the students left, and that's exactly what this debate on the agenda was about. With the example of this agenda, we could raise the Hungarians of the future, the youth of the future. Thank you all very much for your support. I hope this will also appear in the votes. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on family support and pension insurance until closure. The government referral is T/3127. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Katalin Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I respectfully welcome you to the debate on our bill. This is a bill amending legislation on family support and pension insurance, T/3127. No. 3 of the Act. Allow me to explain in detail what this bill is about, in a few words, in a few sentences, the results that we have achieved since 2010 in the area of family support. In 2010, when the second Orbán government took up government positions, we announced a family-oriented governance, and since 2010 we have been constantly working to help those who are about to have children and those who are raising children. So our priority is to support young people who are about to have children and families who are going to have children. [[15.50]] It is no secret that we would also like to put an end to the continuous population loss since 1981; we would like this process to turn around, not only to slow down population loss, but to become a growing, youthful nation again. That is why we are constantly expanding family support, and that is why we are working on giving birth to the desired, planned children in Hungary. Hungarian young people are family-centred, they imagine their future in a family, they want to live in a marriage and with children, so it is the case for most young people. That's what we want to help, that's what we want to support. That's why we're constantly raising family support. In 2010, the government spent HUF 960 billion on this purpose, and now we are over HUF 2000 billion. If we look at this in proportion to economic performance, we can also say that we are at the forefront of Europe's GDP-related spending on family support. I would like to highlight some of these elements of family support. This is the family tax relief that was introduced in 2010 and which has been constantly being extended ever since. This will also be the case in 2019, as we will again increase the family tax relief for two children. The amount that we use for this purpose year after year is now close to HUF 300 billion, and almost all families can benefit from family tax relief. Our home creation program is a similar element. In July 2015, three years ago, we introduced this program, and since then we have been able to help 90,000 families, so it is close to 400,000 people who, thanks to the home creation program, have been able to move forward, move to a new home, whether young people are expecting children, families already raising children, or parents raising their children alone. We have spent nearly 260 billion forints on this goal in recent years. But I could say the kindergarten programs here, or the ged extra, or I could mention the free children's meals, the free textbooks, or the Elizabeth camps, without the need for completeness. I would also like to mention the 40th programme for women, thanks to which we have already returned more than 230,000 grandmothers to families, helping mothers to cope both in the labour market and in the family. If we look at the results, then we also see that the population and demographic indicators have all moved in a positive direction, and that in 20 years there hasn't been as much childbearing as last year, there hasn't been as much marriages in 20 years. There is also a decrease in population loss, a decrease in infant mortality or the number of abortions. So I can say that the trend is positive, but we can't lean on it yet, we can't say that we have achieved the goal that we want, that we still don't have all the desired, planned children, so we still have a lot to do. In fact, the various points of the bill. The bill contains three amendments to the law. The first is XXXI of 1990 on the protection of children and child care management. Act LXXXI of 1997 on social security pensions. Law and other related laws, and the third is LXXXIV of 1998 on support for families. Law. XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management The purpose of the amendment is to reduce administrative burdens and avoid unnecessary data collection. To this end, we will clarify and clarify the records kept in relation to the day-to-day care of children. This proposal also states that we have a new requirement, thanks to a previous amendment of the law, we have imposed a obligation on the municipalities to provide nursery care not only if there are more than 10 thousand people living in the locality, but even if there are at least 40 children under the age of three in the settlement, or there are up to 5 children in three years where parents work and they require this day care. In order to fulfil this obligation, municipalities need preparation time, and this bill therefore includes the need to comply with this obligation by 31 December 2020 and the implementation of the obligation will be supported by various applications, continuous cradle-building and cradle-building facilities. LXXXI of 1997 on social security pensions. Proposals for amendment of law partly make the eligibility rules clearer, partly accelerate the procedure and increase the data security of insured persons, as well as include rules requiring the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. The amendments tabled in the proposal are in the interests of customers and cover transparent, precise conditions. The addition of conceptual definitions makes it clear, in respect of family benefits, who must be kept and able to be considered as a relative. This, for example, will result in clear regulation to establish the care of the brother, grandson, and grandparent. It is also important for family benefits to have one of the eligibility criteria spelled out in the legislation. The application for an accident benefit and the setting of the starting date of the benefit are clarified by the rule favourable to the claimant. The proposal complements the range of orphans who are entitled to care for children who are permanently ill and disabled, and young people who are unable to attend school training because of pregnancy, childbirth or children under three years of age. The proposal to allow pensioners to refer retirement benefits only to a bank account over which the claimant or his/her legal representative has the right to dispose is intended to ensure the safety of pensioners and the protection of them against fraud. The proposal contains a number of proposals for data management for insured persons and claimants, which increase data security. For example, it is in the interest of policyholders to keep their pension-relevant data with the employer, the point being that, for five years after the former worker's retirement age has been fulfilled, the employer must retain the insurance information necessary for the establishment of the pension. The decision of the Constitutional Court of 12/2018 complements the pension law provision, which was found to be unconstitutional, on the basis of which retired judges and prosecutors can be re-established in the light of their retirement pension after the restoration of their service. The 2011 CLXVII on the abolition of pre-age pensions, pre-age benefits and service obligations. Law 3 provides for the prohibition of re-establishing service obligations and pre-age benefits following the termination of the previously established benefit. Due to the eligibility conditions for the service pension and other pre-age pensions, a replacement of pre-age benefits may arise for those who are entitled to the service. CXII of 2012 on the transfer and transfer of pension insurance to officials and other servants of the European Union and amending certain pension insurance and related laws We have also initiated amendments to the Act in order to ensure that, in the case of officials and employees who, following the pension transfer, have received a new period of contribution in the Hungarian pension scheme, under which they cannot obtain entitlement to an autonomous pension in the Hungarian pension scheme at the time of the age limit, after the transfer, the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities are adopted on 29 February 1968. They may also request the transfer of the latter period to the pension scheme of officials and other servants of the European Communities in the event of retirement benefits under Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ESAC and Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009. LXXXIV of 1998 on support for families. Among the proposals to amend law, it is important to highlight the extension of the concept of a foster child raised in his own household, which concerns families with persistently ill or severely disabled children. According to the bill, children who are raised in their own household for the purposes of family support benefits will in the future be considered to be children who are placed in a residential social institution for more than 30 days if the placement is necessary to fulfil the obligation to provide education and education in order to ensure access to development education and education in the institution for more than 30 days. In such cases, the child will only be removed temporarily from the parent's household. This form of care or placement is similar to when children go to a boarding school to or near an educational institution away from the child's place of residence. [[16.00]] It is proposed that, in the case of the social institutional placement of permanently ill or severely disabled children, instead of the head of the institution, the parent will be entitled to the family allowance from now on, and in addition the parent will be entitled to the family allowance for the permanently ill or severely disabled child until the age of 10, as well as the family tax allowance. Further proposals to amend the Family Support Act are technical amendments that help to clarify the application of the law. I am confident that what has been said, and in the bill you have read, is that these amendments are intended to simplify, clarify, clarify and reduce burdens, offering families an additional opportunity. I also think it is important that, in addition to offering new opportunities, bringing in new legislation and introducing new subsidies that specifically support those who are about to have children and those who are raising children, we are constantly working to improve our current legislation. This is also what the present proposal serves, which is why I am asking for your support. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-13-114	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Pesti, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In particular, the bill contains amendments to the law on the protection of children and child care management, social security pensions and support for families. The first is therefore the 1997 XXXI on the protection of children and child care management. Amendment of law in particular. During the transformation of the day care of children in previous years, a review of the records kept in the nursery was carried out to reduce the administrative burden, resulting in a number of data sheets being published in the implementing regulations. At the same time, the law generally maintained the requirement to keep a register, which, based on practical experience, is clearly apparent from the fact that it was also called for in the course of government official controls, although there was no need for the management of a number of data during daycare. In view of this, it is therefore appropriate to clarify and clarify the section concerned. The amendment under the bill aims to reduce further the administrative burden for the day-to-day care of children. The new law expressis verbis states that there is no need to collect and record data that are available in other records and documents relating to the provision of care. Up to now, when checking services provided in the context of the day care of children, government agencies have also requested the registration of data that were not required in day care. In order to support the return of young children to the labour market, the Act provides for the registration of personal data of parents and children receiving fee support under the priority project GINOP 5.3.11-18 in the user register. The provision also covers service providers who do not receive normative State aid, but the parents of the children they provide receive support under the above project. The support will be paid with the help of the Hungarian Treasury, so the actual use will be verified by the Hungarian Treasury on the basis of the data reported. Several development funds, nearly HUF 10 billion, were announced in the summer and autumn of this year, for which the implementation is expected in 2019. Therefore, the municipal authorities involved in the tender cannot fulfil their duty to provide care until the current deadline for the provision of nursery care, i.e. until 31 December 2018, and therefore the available preparation period has been extended for another two years until 31 December 2020. The second is the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions. amendment of laws and other related laws. The rules of the Civil Code should therefore apply to the definition of a family member who is obliged and capable of maintenance in relation to the provision of orphans. In the case of maintenance capacity, the court's judgment should be taken into account, if any. If the court has ordered the maintenance to be carried out, the relative shall be deemed to be capable of holding. If the action for maintenance is dismissed, it cannot be considered as such. If, on the other hand, no judgment has been reached, the person in whose family the per capita income exceeds two and a half times the minimum pension shall be considered to be able to hold in the same way as the current practice. In the future, it is recommended to extend the range of home-schoolers entitled to care for orphans with pregnant children or young children. Currently, only home-schoolers due to illness or disability are eligible. The proposal raises case law to the legal level so that, in order to avoid possible abuse, the pensioner has the right to dispose of the account to which his pension is paid. With the transformation of the organizational system, the Board of Pensions became the administrative body of the Hungarian Treasury, while the centralized remuneration accounting is also carried out by the Hungarian Treasury. It is faster and easier to follow the procedure that the Pensions Directorate acts directly in order to deduct the debt from the income. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2018/12, the proposal complements an unconstitutional provision of pension law, whereby retired judges and prosecutors will be re-established in the light of their retirement pension after the restoration of their service. The proposal also includes amendments to comply with the GDPR provision, as well as clarification provisions in the application of the law. The proposal is for the benefit of recipients and serves to comply with the Constitutional Court decision and the GDPR regulation. The third is the 1998 LIV on support for families. an amendment to the law. Under the current provisions of the Family Support Act, if the parent is permanently ill or severely disabled and places the child in a social institution for more than 30 days, the child cannot be considered a foster child in the parent's own household. For this reason, the parent is not entitled to the family allowance, but the head of the social institution. In such a case, the parent may not receive child care or benefit from child care in respect of the child placed in the institution, nor can the family benefit or contribution allowance be granted with regard to him or her. The amendment provided for in the bill also constitutes a child raised in his own household for the purposes of family support benefits if the child is placed in a residential social institution in order to fulfil the school obligation in order to ensure access to the development education in the institution and the child is only temporarily removed from the parent's household. This form of institutional placement is similar to that in which the child is studying in an educational institution away from his/her place of residence and receiving college accommodation, for which the parent is still entitled to the family allowance. According to the amendment, in the case of a social institutional placement of permanently ill or severely disabled children, similar to that in the college, where the placement of the child in the social institution is closely linked to the continuation of studies and spends weekends and school holidays in the parent's household, the parent will be entitled to the family allowance instead of the head of the institution. [[16.10]] In addition, the parent will receive legal aid until the age of 10 years for a permanently ill or severely disabled child and may also apply the family tax allowance. For example, the Autist Assistance Centre in Gyönyös, which provides care for nearly fifty autistic children from the eight counties of the country and Budapest. The other amendments to the Act are precise and technical in nature, which should be highlighted as follows: due to legal feedback and time limits in general in the EEA Member States, which are much longer than the current Hungarian legislation, and due to the sometimes prolonged conflicts, it is appropriate to increase the time limits for enforcement for five years; an amendment clarifying the rules on payment benefits in relation to sectoral practices creates consistency in the area of fairness and payment benefits in the social security and family support sectors. In view of all this, the Fidesz Group supports the bill tabled by the Government, and I call on this House, the Members, to also support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman János Stummer, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am not in an easy position, and there is no easy situation for an opposition Member when he has to discuss this bill. I have conflicting feelings because we can support many of the amendments ourselves with a good heart, since their wording was motivated by practicality, but we are once again obliged to criticise other parts of this bill, because we see that they are either caused by indiscretion or by government opportunism, which has already been common and so often emergent. Let's look at these key areas in detail and individually. We support the fact that the bill expands the scope of private orphans, and we support it, because at present only those who are forced to study as home-schoolers because of illness or disability can receive a pension. In the future, this will also apply to the pregnant child, parent, or child care student, and this is a welcome change. We also consider it a logical change and a change in the right of pensioners to dispose of the account to which their pensions are paid in order to avoid further abuse. In fact, the bill does nothing but bring the current case law to the legal level. We also support the expansion of the concept of fostered children in our own household. We note with satisfaction that the legislation has finally been adapted to the routine of everyday life for a number of other details. Now, if you'll allow me a few words about the nursery. First of all, I would like to give some thought to the work nursery. Here we have an addition, which, by the way, was highlighted in the debates on this issue in earlier cycles, when such a matter was mentioned. We believe that the employer should consider asking for the norm not only for traditional hours when operating the nursery, so that the job that keeps the institution can adapt the care of the child to the work schedule and to the parents' shift, so that it can provide child care, whether in the afternoon or in the night, in a supported form. This could be particularly helpful for single - shift or single - parent parents. We cannot go without saying that, in paragraph 5 of the relevant Act, the text of the text of the text ".04.2018" is replaced by the text "2020" because, as we remember, the law was amended in 2017 so that in settlements where at least five children are required or the number of inhabitants of the settlement under three years of age exceeds 40 persons, it is mandatory to provide day care, this obligation would now be amended from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2020. What's the hurry, ladies and gentlemen? After all, it is not an urgent matter, there are enough cradle seats, there are not enough applicants, the Hungarian villages are viable, and from there every able-bodied, able-to-work and willing member of a family who has a child, a minor child and a small child can find a happy way to get to work, there are no families in this country where the mother has to go back to work as quickly as possible to ensure a living, right? That's what you seem to think. My question to me, Madam Secretary, is why this deadline should be extended. It is not by chance that some people have not been able to prepare themselves for the implementation of the legislation. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] because EU funds would have migrated somewhere, possibly into unauthorized hands, and instead of nursery schools, kindergartens, schools, stadiums? The government declared 2018 the year of families, and government communication encourages people to have as many children as possible. This is truly welcome, but what the government is thinking about then; that the demographic behaviour of the Hungarian nation can be changed with beautiful words, the processes that have been shadowing our daily lives for a long time now. We do not deny that the government has some measures that point in a positive direction in the field, either in relation to changing the demographic situation or in relation to making Hungary's villages and smaller settlements more livable, but please acknowledge that this proposal or this point of this bill points in the opposite direction. How can the government expect the poetic question from Hungarian mothers to have more children if there are no crèches, if the Hungarian government does not do everything possible to ensure these conditions to as many people as possible, as many families as possible? What should mothers do with themselves who, despite their best intentions, cannot stay home with their children for three years because they have to go back to work, who can they entrust their children to if this deadline is pushed away? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-13-118	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The secretary of state in her expo and my fellow Member, Fidesz, in his speech to the speaker, said the essential and detailed parts of the bill, the package of proposals, what is in the bill before us now. It was said that there would be three amendments to the proposal. Both the reduction of bureaucracy, the simplification of data, the extension of entitlements and other technical and technical amendments are agreed by the KDNP fraction and will therefore support the bill. But let us see how this law has come before this House, and where the family-friendly turn of events has started, where we can already say that we can talk about these issues here, and the Secretary of State has been able to report on such results and figures. In order to understand this, we need to go back between 2002 and 2010, when the socialist-liberal government has very much dismantled the family support system and made the situation of families raising children difficult. Here, the abolition of tax relief for one and two children, the reduction of tax relief for three children, the elimination of home-building programmes and thus the removal of foreign exchange loans or the take-up of a year of the child, can also be classified from three to two years, but, for example, they tried to tax the family allowance. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] This is also the name of the socialists and the Gyurcsány government. Let us remember that today would be 30 years old for the SZDS, it is important to remember this in this House. [[16.20]] Because although their comrades, former friends and fellow warriors are still sitting here with us in Parliament, but if the change of government had not taken place in 2010, thanks to this great party that would celebrate today, if it existed, its 30-year birthday, the gender would already be present in our kindergartens, and the little boys would have taken the baby out of their hands, because it was prepared at government regulation level. This was prepared by your allies then, and thanks to the 2010 government change, the Fidesz-KDNP government changed this. I understand that it bothers Tordai Bence, because they are one of the spiritual depositaries of the former party, and that is why they are sitting here. This would have been then and this would have been in kindergartens now, and this would be insanity in Hungary if in 2010 there had not been a change of government and a family-friendly turnaround that could now produce quite serious results. After all, we introduced the family tax reduction, extended the family tax allowance to the contributions, introduced the Gyed extra, the college kid, next year the amount to be spent on family home creation is already HUF 240 billion, and today's news is that the extension of the interest-supported loan for the family home creation discount will come into force this year. I think that we should also mention the fact that we are in the process of a national consultation, which Ildikó Bangóné Borbély managed to tear up in front of this House this morning. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I am not the only one who ripped it up.]] This is an insult to people who want to respond and who want to tell the government their views on family support. It has offended people who believe that more family support should be given to families with multiple children, it has offended those who believe that population loss should not be replaced by immigration. He offended those who believe that young families, young married couples, should be given support to start their own lives. He also offended those who believe that the child has the right to a father and a mother. He insulted those who believe that the state should recognise the institution of a real full-time motherhood, and I could mention the issues raised. But with the gesture of my MSZP fellow Member, it does not matter that 100,000 people, 3 million or 10 million people will send back this questionnaire, you have insulted everyone who would like to respond and who want to express their views on the government's family policy. I understand that you are making a lot of noise here, because between 2002-2010 we saw the list of results, we saw the continuous withdrawal and restrictions that were waiting for the families at that time. And I also understand that that is why they are angry, and that is why they are making noise now, because they did not even give their name to the actions of the family-friendly turnover after 2010. They did not support a significant part of the measures, thanks to which I am talking not only about financial support measures, but also about a kind of change in public thinking in the country. This is shown by the increase in the number of marriages by nearly 40 percent, the number of divorces decreased by nearly 20 percent, the number of abortions decreased by more than 25 percent, and the fertility rate also increased from 1.25 to 1.5. These data represent a social shift, a change in public thinking, which could be summarised with the slogan of a family-friendly country, as communities are very important to us. The communities are the first, and we consider the family to be the smallest community, the foundation of society. So I think that we have done everything we can to protect and support families, and we will continue to do everything we can. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-120	Thank you. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I have already given the data before my agenda, with which I am starting my speech. I would say to my colleague Mr Lőrinc Nacsa that if things were so bright, I would not be reading the data that I am about to read. The fertility rate may have increased, but fewer children are born. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm sure it's grown.]] Fewer children are born. In 2008, 99 149 children were born, but I could say the year 2005: 97 496 children. In 2010, 90 335, 88 049, 91 510 in 2014 and 2016 were the best results, which were only 93 063 children, and 91 577 in 2017 respectively. I will not be false, my fellow Member, but you know it, and Madam Secretary of State knows it, and we know that unfortunately, the trend cannot be reversed in the next period, because the number of women of childbearing age in Hungary is falling horribly. And as much as they say it's better, there won't be a trend turnaround. And you do not talk about the fact that one in six Hungarian children are born abroad, and one in ten women of childbearing age are already abroad. These little things you forget all the time. My ear was particularly hit by Mrs Secretary of State's one sentence, Congressman Nacsa, that the number of children born in marriage was also said. Why do you keep saying that it's only the precious family who raises a child in marriage? Today, 42 percent of children are raised in Hungary in partnership. Why are you talking about these families as if they weren't as precious families as those who raise children in marriage? Or why don't you talk about over a million families and there are also couples and married people who don't have children? A million families! Let me ask you why you don't talk about, say, the 50,000 children who left school without a degree. Only because, and in most cases because of poverty reasons, the child is removed from school, just so that instead of family allowance, let's say, the parent can send it to community service because they do not starve to death. You don't mention these little problems. Or what the amendment of the law is about, although my better fellow Member gently said that the establishment of the mini-cradle will be pushed out by two years, and a support system will be introduced, and I hope that Madam Secretary of State has read today during the inauguration that her cradle-building program for the government has failed. You announced in 2015 that about 12,000 seats would be created in the next period, and in this you managed to create a thousand seats. The kindergarten fee was introduced, and now they've figured out how to support families who want to send their children to the nursery with 40,000 forints. It's just, Madam Secretary, I think that this kindergarten fee should be abolished, and it would be better for them, and the tender system has been issued in such a way that we are now debating this law and that these applications should be submitted from 9 November to 30 November so that they can obtain the aid. You don't really mean that, do you? They're basically not even gonna find out about it, but they're gonna have to apply. And the other thing is that families can't apply right where they need it the most. This is the region of Central Hungary, Budapest, Pest county, Budapest and its surroundings, because most of the seats are missing in Hungary here and in the area of large cities, and they cannot apply for this in the Central Hungary region. The other, Secretary of State, because I know that when I have to leave soon today, they will say that Mrs Bangón did not sit through the debate, that she should have come today to the TV debate that you were invited to, Madam Secretary, where we could have argued on a television channel about the family support system for the past few years. Because we should take these debates in public, where we can crash them... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Of course, Parliament! Where's the public, Congressman? Where can they watch it? It's completely limited. Why can't you watch it on Duna TV from morning to night the way it used to be in the system, not just on the Internet, or just if one of the channels happens to be on the Internet? So they can no longer keep track of Parliament's debates before 2010. If we had looked at this bill, we would have expected a great deal from the notified family support systems, what they would bring to us, and they would have missed out on the pension system, if you look at it, even on the family support system. [[Lőrinc Nacsa shows the online parliamentary broadcast by raising his phone.]] We are talking here about the amendment of cutting red tape... I am pleased, my fellow Member, that you are not only watching live, but also online. [[16.30]] bureaucracy reduction: who knows the system today, an orphanage has already been mentioned several times in the speech, today in Hungary, if an orphanage or orphanage is to be established, Madam Secretary, there are cases where it takes more than six months, and with the greatest need when losing the mother or the father of the family, the system should work very well, because the most important thing is not to be financially vulnerable. In some cases, for more than six months, the orphan child, or even the orphan child, is unable to receive the family allowance. You are now saying that there will be a reduction in bureaucracy in this area as well. How will this be accomplished when the public sector is being decommissioned now? If you talk to, say, people working at the Treasury, I mention the Treasury on purpose, because this organization assigns a lot of family support systems, they're already dying of overwork, and they're still waiting to get laid off by that government agency. I do not know how this bureaucracy reduction will be achieved, Madam Secretary. I said a lot of things that we expected of this law to be announced. Let's just say it would've been nice to see them announce the raise of the family allowance. Here they constantly refer to how many hundred billion forints remained with the family tax reduction in Hungary. The family allowance was introduced at the time because it was a benefit for the child. You make a difference between a child and a child. All children are not the same to you today, and in fact they have been with you for many years now, for more than eight years now we have seen that there are prominent families, there are prominent children, and there are those who remain in the education system, in the social care system and in the family support system. I also told you this morning that if we look at tax returns, we can see today, based on the tax income declared, that about 500 thousand people earn as much income in Hungary as the remaining 2.8 million people do. I think that every person with a good feeling can say that this is not well. Or if we look at how many people are employed at minimum wage today, we are talking about over 1.4 million people. I think that you do not talk much about these problems in the debates. We do not constantly understand that when the laws are brought before us, one would expect that they will now bring to Parliament the forms of family support that have been announced for months, and that we will read about something completely different about the law. We would very much have liked to have seen that the other aid scheme is the CSOK programme, which is constantly referred to. Madam Secretary, we are talking about 90,000 families so far, this is 3.2 percent of families who have children who have been able to use it, and if we add even childless families, we are talking about only 2.4 percent of them, then I think we do not have to talk about such big successes within the walls of the House, and a few weeks ago, you have abolished the housing savings fund support system, which we can say that more than a million families were able to access. Sometimes you should look, Madam Secretary, at the numbers of which support system... [[Katalin Novak, laughing: It's demagogy.]] You can laugh at that, Madam Secretary... [[Katalin Novak: There's only one level above which you can't stop.]] Demagogy, Secretary of State, demagogy? Then we should look into the mirror of the pro-government representatives, the members of the government, what demagogy is, and we should talk about it. We are constantly listening to the successes that have been achieved within the walls of Parliament. Madam State Secretary, if the family support system worked, and the amended family law and pension law we are talking about, and we haven't even talked about how it's going to come before Parliament, how, let's say, pensioners will be cut off by an amendment to the law, how do they make implementations and recoverys easier for pensioners, and today was the day you voted down inside Parliament to discuss evictions here and to talk about what is going on in Hungary, how many thousands of families have been evicted after the abolition of the moratorium and now. True, the moratorium has begun, Madam Secretary, but the problem has not been solved. You could say we're demagogues. We are not demagogues, only if their family support system were successful, Madam Secretary, once again a law has been introduced, an amendment to the law that I can join my better fellow Member with points that can be supported, and there are points that are once again prepared in ways that cannot be voted for. There are good things about the amendment of the law, extending some benefits, we would even agree with the reduction of bureaucracy, Madam Secretary, they will just not be able to achieve it, but in the cradle seats only by having a deadline amendment, they now think that this is resolved, this will not work. Returning to my thoughts, the success would be if more children were born in Hungary today. There will be no more children, no more secretary of state, and it will not be if they do not improve the social security system. Today's news is how psychologists are absent from the supply system, how there are no professionals in the care of children, how there are no teachers, and not only in schools, but in kindergartens, how the Hungarian countryside is being eliminated, that now, when we talk about how migration affects not only foreign countries, but also when we look at internal migration, how the Hungarian countryside is being eliminated. You simply refuse to debate these problems within this House. So we cannot support this amendment either, precisely because of the problems that my opposition fellow Member has said, that the most important, the most pressing problems will not be answered, not because of the amendments that you have communicated for weeks, but because we are talking about something quite different. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
u2018-11-13-122	Dear Parliament, We don't interrupt a general speaking class. In this case, Secretary of State Novák has come forward; I am afraid she does not want to give a summary opinion, if I understand correctly, but perhaps to reflect. Is that right? [[Katalin Novak: Yes, only because Congresswoman has indicated that she will leave.]] Then I, in the power of the president, will decide to break it now. Madam Secretary of State, I ask you not to be so urgent, but to wait for the Secretary of State's reply. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Thank you.]] Here you go.
u2018-11-13-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I have only applied to speak because she has indicated that she cannot wait for the end of the debate, and when we talk about wanting to argue with each other, I will at least show the other that I am present when we are arguing. I don't think it's a disadvantage to be able to talk to each other. So we have now managed to resolve this by using Mr President's help to deviate from the custom, and I can reflect on his words for you. I am doing this because there is a legislative debate going on here within the walls of the Parliament, and I think it would be worthy to talk about its substance, and whatever comes out of it, and I would have expected the Member to make proposals then, to say something about what you are proposing in relation to this, what kind of amendments you have, what you are thinking. Unfortunately, we have not learned anything about this, and that is why I regard your words as demagogic, Congresswoman, because there has not been a word about this at all, and it throws numbers and statements that lack the basis of reality in many cases. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: KSH.]] I always naively think that if it doesn't happen now, but that doesn't happen, that's what you can expect, and now I know it's always demagogy that you're back to and back to, but it's okay, I'll try to respond to that. On the one hand, it may not be difficult to say that, indeed, if there are fewer and fewer young people, it is not expected that there will be a large increase in birth numbers from one minute to the next. We never said it, and we're afraid it won't even happen. But to say on this basis that the population indicators were not changed in a positive direction, this could be either indiscretion or malice, these two things could be. If you read a little bit about the literature or find your way around it, Congresswoman, you will certainly find that there is an indicator that is used in international literature and everywhere to describe the population processes, and this is the total fertility rate. This is what we call an everyday childish thing called a childish thing called a full fertility rate. [[16.40]] 1.24 was this indicator in 2011, you were at a low point with this indicator. This best shows how many children are born in a family, on average how many children are born. This indicator has increased by 20 percent in recent years, every year since 2011, in 2012 and in 2013, and this has also been the case in 2017. So if you see this indicator, you know it, and I think you know it by the way, then you certainly don't say that the population processes are going in a negative direction, because this indicator shows exactly the opposite. And, yes, I think it's gratifying for young people to marry more bravely. The fact that there are one and a half times more people getting married today than in 2010 is, I think, a positive thing. Of course, this does not mean that I do not value those who do not choose marriage as a way of life. I also consider this to be a demagogy and a slippage, as family support is also entitled to those who are not married. So to say that married people are left out of family support, it's either benign ignorance or malicious demagogy again, these are the two options. I don't think any of them are lucky, but at least now is a chance to clarify that anyone who doesn't live in a marriage but raises children in a partnership is also entitled to family support. And then I'd like to go to one more point, the nursery constructions. At the nursery, he said that the number of seats increased by a thousand. I'd be happy to give you statistics if you can't get them. I tell you the specific figures: in 2010, there were 32,000 nursery seats, today, in 2018, there are 48,000 nursery seats. From the first minute, we said that we wanted to reach 60,000 by 2020 at nursery seats. That's what we said three years ago, four years ago, that's what we're saying now. Cradle seats are constantly being created. I believe that the jump from 32,000 to 48,000 is not a thousand, but just 16,000, so the number of crib seats has increased in recent years. And yes, I think that it is necessary to give the municipalities time to meet this new task. When you were in government, you did not have such an obligation for the municipalities, you did not have to run a nursery, only if you had a population of over 10,000 people in a given settlement. It has not been prescribed that up to 40 small settlements with children under three years old or a settlement where only five children's parents require nursery placement must fulfil this obligation. This legislation has been amended by us, precisely so that, wherever there would be an obstacle to employment or to having children, there is no place for crèches, the municipalities can provide this. We have increased the funding of crèches by 2.5 times, so there is 2.5 times more available in the budget to finance operations than before. It used to pay to run a nursery, not today. We've moved from this year to task-based funding. And the truth is that it would be credible what you say as a criticism, what I consider to be a fair thing, that you are obviously criticizing as an opposition representative, I think it is quite appropriate to at least acknowledge something that is clearly more factually better than it was before. I think that kindergarten care, for example, is such a case. And I wouldn't look down on the people who moved to a new home through the CSOK, either. We're talking about 90,000 families. This can be multiplied by 4, this is the average number of these families, we're talking about nearly 400,000 people. I consider the advance of 400,000 people and their progress to be a serious achievement. I also consider these people to be happy that 400,000 people were able to move under better circumstances than when there was no home creation programme at all before 2010. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not true! It's demagogic!]] Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, to respond to the Congresswoman. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I am the Demagog!]]
u2018-11-13-124	Now, Honourable Parliament, we return to the speeches of the lead speaker. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, head speaker of DK, please.
u2018-11-13-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It was supposed to be the year of the family. Compared to this, some privileged families actually became Orbán families, the family of Lőrinc Mészáros, the family of György Matolcsy, the family of some Fidesz MEPs, the castle of János Lázár, the pig fattening of Lajos Kósa's mother. So there were families here that made a very good profit and made billions in the last year, in the year of the families, but overall, I have to say that everyone else or a significant part of the people was fooled, and it didn't turn into a year of families, but a year of deceit. The victims of your deceit have been Hungarian citizens. I'll give you some examples. I am very surprised that the Secretary of State has just said why the opposition does not submit proposals, such as family support or social affairs. Tell me one thing: since 2010, you have accepted any opposition proposals, just one. If we had said that Viktor Orbán was the heir of God and St. Stephen, he would not have even accepted it, and if we had said that Zsolt Semjén suggested it, then he would obviously be voted in favour. So I have to say that this is a rather cynical position as to why the opposition does not submit proposals when you, whatever proposal the opposition has made so far, have tabled any amendments to the law, all of which have not yet been included in the series of articles. I'm on the Cultural Committee. To put it mildly, it's a clown thing that happens. One is deprived of a second comment so that it is possible to go home as soon as possible and to conclude a current debate quickly with one vote. However, I also find it strange what the secretary of state said about the nursery, because this is a recent figure that my colleague Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said. Three years ago, you promised 12,000 nursery places in 2015, there was a promise, a thousand of which were realized, a thousand of the 12,000 were realized. In 2017 there were 70,000 children without a nursery place. Family politics is a complicated structure, and I'm telling you, it's not enough to help privileged families. The story begins from the point where the unborn child is worth taking care of. This is what the Gyurcsány government has introduced the baby bond, which, fortunately, you have by some miracle not abolished. I myself wonder how this could have happened, but of course, they never say that it was a positive legacy of the period 2002-2010. So the thing continues from the birth of a child, and, let's say, the mother who stays home with the child begins to worry about where she will go back to work when her period ends, because in this case the vast majority of Hungarian mothers are not safe, they do not know where they will be able to go back. When you have children, you can support full-time motherhood, it can be positive, but I think that a lot of people would like careers and motherhood to be realized at the same time in the family, especially because the two are not only a matter of personal ambition, but also a guarantee of a family's livelihood. I think that the civil circumstances that I think a lot of people dream of in this country could be achieved under these conditions. And then I find it very strange that your fellow State Secretary, Bence Rétvári, has sometimes quoted Zsuzsa Ferge, who, in fact, at the time of the global economic crisis, said that he was absolutely right as a socially sensitive non-politician, but let's say sociologist, that those family support programmes could not be continued in the grip of the economic crisis. And before you say that Gyurcsány is to blame, the decision of the Lehman Brothers was not the responsibility of the Gyurcsány government. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So Zsuzsa Ferge was really desperate that those programs could not be continued. Bence Rétvári always forgets to quote the Ferge Zsuzsa statement a month ago, who says the following about your family policy:. The progressive taxation, which at least adjusted the amount of tax to be paid to income in a large way, was abolished by Fidesz. So far, the cuts in the Bokros package didn't go away in the mid-1990s. The social tensions are escalating until the explosion, the masses of people living in poverty and slipping middle classes are becoming adherents to radical solutions. To continue with the quote:, It is used to be said that knowledge is power. I'll add that not knowing is vulnerable. That is why the destruction of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is on the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In addition, the state of revenge on poverty was created in a totally unitarian way. In this form he created vulnerability, feudal dependence, begging instead of free workers. When Viktor Orbán said that Hungary would not be a country of aid, we did not know exactly what he meant. It turns out that it is not meant that no one will need aid, but that there will be no aid. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And finally, in Hungary, there are nearly 4 million people living in poverty, I say, in 2018, in your ninth year of governance, including 1.3 million in extreme poverty. [[16.50]] I think your family policy has unfortunately failed. This is not a successful family policy! The family policy, the consequence of which is that tens of thousands of young Hungarians leave the country and make Skype grandmothers out of Hungarian grandparents who have lost their children and grandchildren and have to look at it through a computer to make sure that the child wave and even understands the language of the grandmother, because you may speak only Dutch, English or German with the Hungarian families! You are here, shaking your shoulders, saying in each speech what is wrong with the Hungarians leaving this country and working outside. Well, it just means that if, say, Dad goes to Germany and leaves the mother with the two children, that family could fall apart. You do not protect Hungarian families. Well, how's that nice mama with her two children living a thousand kilometers away from the family? And then I don't count on it to say that if this is a model family, that the other one can find a partner, and this is where the other one can find a partner, what happens to these kids? You practically crush the Hungarian families. They're talking about Papa, Mama, children, a Christian family model, and they've done everything they can to make sure that this doesn't even happen in recent years. But I can continue by saying that a family-friendly government doesn't close universities, a family-friendly government doesn't do that by saying an average university in ELTE law school a semester costs 260 thousand forints. You say it regularly here in Parliament, and I'm surprised the walls don't crack that there's no tuition. So what's this? A semester of 260,000 forints, a year of 520,000 forints for an average student. What's this? Isn't that tuition? Well, what are we paying you for? And it's just a university. And imagine how many Hungarian families there are where they cannot pay this burden. Like, somewhere in Borsod, in a small village, a talented kid who doesn't stand a chance of getting into a university, what's he gonna do? You can't run out of fate that you have the ability to do. Is this the responsible national governance, that thousands of young Hungarians and children will fall into hopelessness and hopelessness? Worse, they get lost, and better, they get lost, and in some way, they get away from here abroad. There was a high school where they asked young people who were about to graduate: 50 percent of them, every other one plans not to live in Hungary. Is this the happy, free, prosperous country you're talking about? The young people are leaving! They should be begged by sob heads of families to try to convince their children to try to thrive in Hungary. And the other half, they're on the same page, and they're telling you to go, son, because you don't stand a chance here. It is such a country today, while you draw such a colorful screen and pretend that everyone here is happy and content. I must also remind everyone that it is not possible to pretend that Hungary was a mess before 2010 and that no one did anything in this country and did not govern and did not help Hungarian citizens. [[Intercoms.]] And they wouldn't have helped the Hungarian citizens! That's right! Orbán told me to quote Congressman Nacsa a few years ago that Hungary has to hire millions of immigrants to replace the loss of labour in Hungary. Your boss, Mr. Nacha, asked us to take in millions of immigrants. You guys are gonna piss and piss around here while they're both your guys. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who said it was possible to leave this country?]] Well, I'm telling you now, with Viktor Orbán's quotes, I can put the entire Parliament on the table with the former Vice-President of the Liberal International, who, by the way, voted Mr Weber as the top candidate of the People's Party last week, who voted in favour of the Sargentini report. Let me congratulate you again this time. [[Turdai Bence: Losers!]] That's the name of the loser government. We also need to remind you that it is important to quote some data on what happened here before 2010. I know you didn't like it at the time, but I'm going to share some data with you because I think it's important. The family allowance was last raised by the Gyurcsány government, so let's record this. You haven't raised it in ten years. Today we have also learned from Bence Rétvári that there is no need to increase the minimum pension rate, because it seems that the poorest pensioners also live well in this country. Here again, the last time the minimum pension was raised by the Gyurcsány government. Not you, the Gyurcsány government. I know, Mr. Nacha, that this is painful for you, but it doesn't bother me at all. Between 2002 and 2008, the number of people who already receive an exact care fee increased from 31,000 to 53,000. The number of people receiving housing support in cash or in kind has increased from 175 thousand to 326 thousand. This is also the result of those eight years. A targeted social support has become the gas price support that has previously been granted under subjective law, and gas and district heat support has depended on the family's per capita income since 2007, while everyone has previously been subject to the amount of energy consumed. In May 2009, 1.6 million households received gas or district heating support on a social basis, and another 350 thousand households living in district heating homes received HUF 1150 per month. In small steps, support for higher incomes has been reduced from 2008. In those eight years, I would like to point out that the scissors between the poorest and the richest have been completed. And finally, even after an exceptionally rapid pension increase in the 2002-2006 government cycle, after the adjustment, which fell to the global crisis, the following figures were obtained: in 2010 the purchasing value of pensions was more than 32 percent higher than in 2001 when you were ruling. Some numbers may have increased now, and I do not dispute that, but let us not forget that there were governments before you, socially sensitive governments, helped a lot of poor people, renovated over 300 primary schools. The Gyurcsány government did not build stadiums, but six new university centers. The Corvinus, which you have now turned into a private university, was built by the Gyurcsány government, and I could tell you a long time from SOTE to Szeged University. This was the world, and I have to say, it deserves more respect from you, even. I know this is a vain fantasy, but it would be very important for you to see it, and for the public to see that you didn't start the Spanish wax, but you already had family support, social policy. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-126	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP is the next and final speaker in the main speaker round, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Here we have a salad law, in which there are obviously elements that can or may not be supported, and there are some that are not. In fact, according to the government's proposal, it is a legal codification transfer of measures that clarify and simplify the procedure from the point of view of the application of the law. However, it seems that the government is legally trying to burden society, people with problems arising from its own haste, superficiality and other malfunctions. I would like to focus on two issues, one on the continuing expansion of maintenance obligations and the other on the issue of debt that can be deducted from pensions. We see that by this continuous expansion of maintenance obligations, the government is practically crossing the horse and overloading those affected, as it can cause growing financial difficulties for children and grandchildren that all maintenance requirements that can be imposed on them can reach half their income. The government should count on the fact that in many families with one, two and three children parents often do not even have enough income to provide decent care for their own children, i.e. down in the chorus, and simply does not allow their income situation to sacrifice to their elderly parents. Moreover, care, care, in many cases, is an indefinable thing in terms of not only caring for an elderly, needy relative, but also taking him to medical examinations, treatments and, where appropriate, medical gymnastics, which may be within a distance of up to 250 km, for example, from Szombathely to Blueball Street, and then we have not even discussed the price of drugs which is too high. [[17.00]] We also see in practice that people often tend to their parents in superhuman struggles, care for their family members, and if someone does not do so for whatever reason, they will have a negative stamp on them. But, fellow Members, we are ultimately paying the public burden, the social contribution to care for our elderly, and it is not fair to pay for it. In the future, we do not want the elderly, those in need, to be completely burdened with families and relatives by the government. This is precisely what Hungarian social security is intended for and in such cases, in order to support the elderly, those in need, and to relieve the active workers. Although families often care for, care for, support their own elders from the heart, from within, but in many cases these families themselves, as I have said, need support. We also need to see that family relationships, careers, people's health are often affected by caring for the elderly or those in need. Yes, let us be responsible for our society, but let us not cripple young families or the elderly. This measure calls into question the reality of the social state, which is why it is strongly proposed to override the issue of parenting. By the way, earlier, LMP did not support parenting at all for the reasons that I already had. The other fundamental problem raised in the legislative package is the issue of pensioners, to be more precise: debt that can be deducted from pensions. As the government is already constantly taking on the pension issue, it is clear that it is not aware of the situation of pensioners, its lack of responsibility and respect for the elderly. However, those who have worked fairly for 40 years or due to their work have paid contributions, and those who have worked fairly have to appreciate the government's honest work and receive a decent pension, not a handout. Just as the pension premium coming in these days is exactly such a charity for them instead of getting stable, predictable care tailored to wages, but at least to daily livelihoods. I think that it is important to mention very low pensions here. We know that today nearly 600-650 thousand people in Hungary have a pension below 100 thousand forints, the minimum pension is 28 500 forints. We also know that a large number of pensioners accumulate their debts because they cannot pay public works fees or even result in a sudden renovation. So here, in fact, the very low pensions and the low pensions should first be settled by the government before, perhaps, it provides obligations and a possibility of deduction which results in the pensioner not having enough pensions left to allow him to eat normally afterwards, for example. And still for the low pensions: you say that retirement is a fantastic thing right now. Yes, we know that in itself small pensioners are happy about it, but there are a number of other problems. One, the pension premium doesn't go into retirement, it's a one-time thing, maybe next year there won't be more than 3.5 percent economic growth, then the pensioners won't have any of this. So this basically means that pensioners can only benefit from economic growth at almost random, and it is certain that the pension system should be reviewed in order not only to follow inflation, but also to benefit from economic growth. Moreover, what we see is that retirement society is breaking down behind active workers, of course we are glad that average wages are increasing, but low-retirement workers should be better helped. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] So we consider it important for the government to take the first steps to make the lower pensions higher. It's important to be in favour of pensioners. We also know that in many cases pensioners are owed a debt due to a well - intentioned loan to support their children, grandchildren, and to a debt that they find difficult or unable to pay. Of course, we also think it's natural to pay off, but it doesn't matter how and from what. Your justification is that the amendment is about making it easier for you to repay your debt, but we think it is more and more about the fact that people with small pensioners who are already in difficulties in living are getting worse and harder. The government, society, is supposed to protect them, support them, respect them for their years of work, not cripple them. In order to protect pensioners, it would be necessary to take measures to ensure that as few people as possible are in a hopeless situation due to debt. It should not jeopardise the livelihood by repaying an outstanding debt, where appropriate. It's not a charity for decently worked years, it's a decent living based on human dignity. We ask the government to consider how to make retirement years easier, how to regulate debt settlement so that pensioners do not risk their daily livelihoods. By the way, if the government is open to it, then LMP is ready to submit a bill for this and the other element, if you are open to it, but unfortunately, we have also experienced in recent years that, in any field, whatever good and whatever number of legislative proposals we have had, nothing has ever been adopted. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-13-128	Thank you, Congresswoman. I also welcome my fellow Members. The speech of the lead speaker is now over, and a two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2018-11-13-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Still, it is outrageous what the Gyurcsány Party and the MSZP coalition together with the anarchist faction that does not press the button but yell at it. [[Intercoms from DK and MSZP. Bence of Turdai: I pressed the button.]] He's performing here in Parliament on family support. Your boss, your boss, said you could get out of here. He said this from the fork he got from the Rose Hill, Communist Einstand, that it was possible to leave here. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What is it?]] That's what he said, or that they didn't do anything during their administration, or that they've been lying for the past year and a half or two. He said that in 2006, then the same thing happened between 2006 and 2010, where they also lied, falsified budget data [[Noise, interruptions from the DK and MSZP side.]] and lied all over their 2010 cycle. You mentioned the adoption of opposition proposals here; between 2002 and 2010 fewer opposition proposals were adopted than between 2010 and 2018, I would like to inform you [[Noise, interruptions, including Zsolt Gréczy: How do you know?]] and a number of proposals have been adopted in these eight years, which have been jointly noted by pro-government and opposition representatives, and this is where 2010 and 2018. [[Intercoms from the opposition side, including: Give me a number.]] Eight opposition representatives received proposals from the government marked by the name of Gyurcsány-Bajnai between 2002 and 2010 and the Fidesz-KDNP administration is at 11. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Intercoms from the same place, including, oh, yeah! Gergely Farkas: You should be proud of him.]] It's more than you guys did. I would also like to point out that this is something that you say you have done better with the family support system than when our fellow Member, Zsolt Molnár, said that you have done much better in national policy and that you care much more about Hungarians across the border. In 2010, the money spent on families was below HUF 1000 billion, next year it will be over HUF 2000 billion, more than doubling. [[17.10]] I think it really deserves recognition. As a last sentence, I just want to say that I would say to Mrs Bangóné, she has just left that our goal is to create an environment where everyone can make their own decisions about having children and where the desired children can always be born. No one's talking about a trend turn, we're talking about making sure that's what we're doing, and we're on the right track. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-13-130	Thank you, Congressman. I will now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda in a normal time frame.
u2018-11-13-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I applied for a speech not only because my pro-government colleagues missed my contribution, but also because I would like to share the position of the Dialogue. We were very pleased to see that a salad law on family support and pension insurance was submitted, because these are exactly the two areas where the Fidesz government has amazing debts to large sections of society. What has been brought forward in the name of family support and what has been allowed to be done to older people is more than insufficient, despite all the horse-zung, propaganda, and false news. Consider, for example, what is in this law: some technical amendments, clarification. Much more important, however, which is not included. They do not continue to increase the family allowance, the child, the old-age pension minimum, pensions below HUF 100,000. They do not codify the promises with which they tried to remove social dissatisfaction, such as the increase in the care fee in this proposal, we do not see the introduction of the adoption fee. So in relation to these areas, allow some thought to be given to what the Fidesz government would expect of Hungarian society and the relevant social groups. If two of the most important problems facing pensioners should be highlighted, and now, in particular, with regard to pensions themselves and their value, then it really begins when you promised to protect pensions, which means that they are not being raised, but are being kept at a level. So, while it has been very difficult to get out of the economic crisis and finally wages have started to rise in recent years, pensions do not follow this rise, the incomes of active and pensioners are completely separated. The scissors are getting wider. In addition, pensioner inflation is speeding up despite all the opposite statements. Now this year, when it has really moved, inflation is now close to 4 percent, and compared with the pension increase of less than 3 percent they will not be happy, despite trying to blind them with any measure disguised as Elizabeth's voucher or any pension premium and with no lasting effect in the long term. Or let's see where we stand with family support, where we stand with the support of having children. The fact remains that having children in Hungary today is also a high chance of taking on poverty. In families with children, the risk of poverty is much higher. In the whole society, 30 percent of families with children live below the minimum living standards. And if you look at single - parent families, the most vulnerable families, there are practically two thirds of those living in poverty. So if you want to be so proud of something and this is really the priority goal of your governance this year, then perhaps you should resolve the need for child poverty to be reduced so that there are no 750,000 Hungarian children under the minimum of living, so that two and a half million people in Hungary do not live in homes that are not really suitable to meet the needs of healthy human housing, so that there are no 50,000 starving children, no 200,000 malnourished children. So if, let's say, I raised the family allowance that goes to all families with children, because it would indeed be the child support and not a wage-related benefit, then perhaps they would also be more effective in this fight; or if they supported the initiatives of the Dialogue, the extension of free children's meals to the introduction of the basic income, which would really eliminate extreme forms of poverty, we would move forward. The fact is, however, that there is a problem with the whole approach to your family policy, because you only want to support families that are so to say worthy, or according to your conviction and ideology, worthy of being supported by the state. And these are middle-class, but rather upper middle-class and upper-class families. They are associated with social assistance, home-building subsidies and, by the way, not in cash, but also with benefits and subsidies that can be used as public services. There is a perverted redistribution, just those who are not supported by the Fidesz state, who everyone in this society thinks are the most in need, by the way. So that I really don't repeat long, which families are supported in particular: Orbán, Mészáros, Garancsi and similar family names can be said here. The other inhuman aspect of your family policy is that you tie these subsidies to work. So if a child's parents lose their jobs, you think that child loses the right to receive family support. That's amazing. This has never happened before in the world, and I think it's a shame for Europe, so if you think you're doing a family-friendly government, maybe you should sit down, think about it, and we can continue this conversation from there. However, it is not surprising that their approach is infinitely outdated, because they are trying to derive it from an iconic system of ideas and not from the family policies of countries that are successful in this area. So if you really want a higher number of children, then I would follow the Scandinavian model and not some sort of never-ever medieval Christian policy, and I wouldn't make gender the main enemy, which in all, says that there are genders in society, and these sexes have different experiences, different roles and tasks in life. They don't know what gender is; it's not an ideology, it's a science. But my colleague Nacsa isn't here anyway, so I'm not giving him a training course right now. I would say, however, that a study, a proposal that would have said that children in kindergarten should have taken out of the hands of one or more types of toys. Let me tell him, in case they tell me that I have sons and daughters, and the boys and the girls played with babies, and we took nothing out of anyone's hands. Yet, they were raised by very healthy children. So I can reassure him that playing with a baby and a small car is not something that would cripple the souls of children and society. When I have to refer again to the darkest comment of Lőrinc Nacsa because he talks about it, or the KDNPs usually talk about how every child has the right to a mother and a father, the problem is that you mean that couples of the same sex should not have children. There are two very serious problems with this. One of them is that they do, so it would be nice to say hello sometimes to the reality that comes up there. On the other hand, every child would indeed have the right to two parents, but that also means that the model of a family should not prevail, which they themselves force to have Dad wheelbarrow home with the money, and that mom stays home even if that is not his purpose and was not his plan in life. A fairer division of labour, reconciliation of privacy and work, and a 21st edition of the 21st edition. It would be, or at least, the creation of an opportunity to achieve a balance in the century, which would lead us forward in family policy, that would lead us forward in population policy. For example, if you were to talk a little bit about the role of fathers in childbearing and mothers, mothers with small children, or at least they should be given the opportunity to do so, it would be rather forward-looking. In fact, it would increase fertility rates and not this esoteric Christian bullshit that is sometimes cut off. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I think Péter Harrach himself was able to tell me that whoever has four children and has women is not going to work and not going. I'd like to say that my partner, for example, has four kids, we have four kids and he's going to work, but only because his company is so cool, it allows him to take a job in four hours. The Hungarian government does not have any support system or incentive system to support part-time work, atypical employment, facilitating the employment and re-employment of mothers with small children. This would be, for example, a direction that would indeed affect support for childbearing and not the exclusion, exclusional, fundamental Christian, sometimes extreme right-wing family policy support system that you are now pushing for. So if you want a real demographic change, I suggest you look at the Social Democratic North model, the Scandinavian model, how it works, and I suggest you follow it. In any case, the Dialogue will continue to submit proposals to Parliament to this effect. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2018-11-13-132	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Novák to reply as rapporteur.
u2018-11-13-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I will not respond to every element that has been said, I will try to keep to the original subject of the debate, to the debate and content of this bill and its legal salad. I would like to reflect on what has been said briefly with a thought. [[17.20]] Mr Stummer's points, I think, have been partially answered when I just said so. Here, too, was the development of cradle seats, and I told you how the number of cradle seats has evolved over the past few years. Perhaps it is worth recalling that the number of cradle seats has increased by 16,000, and we expect an additional 12,000 increase in the coming years. These cradle seats are constantly being created, and I believe it is important to give the municipalities as much flexibility as possible, as well as the cradle operators, which is why we have introduced four different types of nurserys: besides the traditional one, mini-cradles, family cradles and work cradles can now be operated. When we talk about EU funds, I would also add that we spend more than HUF 100 billion in total for this purpose, specifically for the creation of nursery and kindergarten spaces. I myself consider it important to develop the nursery system. For those of you who support our bill, thank you for your support. I'd like to respond in a line of questions. I would not argue with Mr Gréczy that we now compare the family policies of the Gyurcsány government and the Orbán government, this could be a long debate. I think the voters have been able to express their views on this on several occasions, and they have made a definite decision. I think we can see this quite clearly from how many Members you have and how many Members the Fidesz-KDNP faction has. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Free the media, and then I can tell you!]] I think that says a lot about how the Hungarian people perceived the period between 2002 and 2010 and how they assessed the period since 2010. If you have already raised concrete things, it is true that we consider the baby bond, the Start account, to be a good initiative, not by accident; this also indicates that we have kept what we could from the few good initiatives, and that we have taken new good initiatives. However, since the Member has raised this point, I would just like to tell you how his use has turned out, by the way. This option was introduced in 2006 and, for example, in 2010 it had a start account for 1136 people, compared to 25 thousand in 2017, so it seems that how much more people can save money, how much more people considered this target important, let's say, in 2017 than in 2010; it was the peak at that time. So, yes, there may be good initiatives, but we need to add flexibility and financial opportunity. I would like to say to Mrs Schmuck that, in understanding your suggestions and comments, I would like to say that none of these points, which you have just mentioned here, have been mentioned as specific and listed as negative in the bill, are not in the current bill. So I suggest we look at it then or look at the points they're thinking of. These, which you referred to, such as parenting and the rest, are not included in the current bill. So, the things that you mentioned in the bill are not included in the current proposal, so please be informed about this, or we will help you if you need it, because I see that there is a Member, and I am not thinking of you, who has not bothered to read the bill, and has been debating completely general things, but that does not surprise me in the end either. In response to the words of Mr Tordai: I would not even consider the style, it is very strange for me that someone in Parliament allows himself such a style, using such words and phrases. [[Tordai Bence: Like what?]] I think we should respect each other more than that. But I'd also respond to the contents. First of all, I congratulate your four children, and I think it's a fantastic thing that they live in a big family and raise four children, and I can only congratulate you and your lovely couple. I think maybe you, as a practicing big-family father, can sense how much tax benefits you can use. [[Bence of Turdai: That's that I do!]] The financial scope for a large family today. For all large family members who work, I would add, and for those who can enforce this family tax relief not only from their personal income tax but also from their contributions, I think it is a good tool to increase their financial mobility and raise children at the same time. I also agree with you on the need to help women, mothers, to raise children and to be present in the labour market at the same time, which is why, for example, we have introduced the ged extra. Before the child extra, if a woman went back to work with a child, she lost her entitlement to the child, the child, so she completely lost her entitlement. We've created this with the weed extra, and you can go back to a little kid without hurting the mother who's going back in that sense. We're just opening up some of those family and career points, and I'm just trying to get your attention, and I can see that you're interested in the subject, so maybe you're interested in these family and career points. There are 71 different points in every county in the country that have one goal: to help the atypical employment of mothers with small children on the ground. I myself believe that there is still work to be done to make the labour market more flexible. I do not think that the labour market is sufficiently flexible now, and I think that the most helpful way to help mothers with small children to balance work and family is to have a flexible labour market, as well as a flexible line of family work. I think that not only that we are talking about it, but that we have already done so, and I am not saying it, and I am stressing that we wish we had nothing more to do. Yes, I also agree that there are elements, even in the Scandinavian family policy, from which it is worth subtracting, and in other family policy practices, from which it is worth raising, so we always follow the practice of foreign countries, and we try to bring the best possible ones to Hungary. We will do our best to make it easier and easier to start a family and raise a child in Hungary. I can also say, as I stressed in the exposé of the bill, that we are talking about clarifications and simplifications. I can promise you that this will not be the last proposal we will make in this area, so you can expect that when the national consultation results, we will come up with further proposals, measures that will benefit Hungarian families and contribute to their better prosperity. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President, and thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-134	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending Law I of 2004 on sport until closure. The government referral is T/3371. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-13-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the government declared sport a priority strategic sector because it recognised its importance for the long-term development of the country, as we know that sport has a positive impact on almost all sectors. It therefore serves the interests and future of the Hungarian nation and strengthens the various areas, such as health care, education, family and youth, culture, and affects economic recovery. I should also mention the fact that sport is developing very dynamically, and accordingly the area of sport has become a business and has appreciated in our information society today. The government has responded to these challenges and has gained a competitive advantage for Hungary, as it is no coincidence that, in addition to our excellent sports results, we have now gained recognition of Hungary as the director of international competitions around the world. While in 2010 our country was able to host 34 international sporting events, in 2017 this number exceeded 130. To this end, it was essential to develop significantly the wasted and non-rarely dangerous domestic sport infrastructure and to adapt the sport financing system and to correct the level of aid. The government took on this task in 2010 and the results speak for themselves: we have won the first winter Olympic gold medal in Hungary, and in many sports, in both the top sports and the re-education field, we have achieved huge successes by our athletes, we have had a World Water Championship, and we have also hosted the first Olympic event in Hungary, the EIOF. It may not be an exaggeration to say that next year Budapest will be the sports capital of Europe, and we will take another step towards Budapest becoming the metropolitan city of sports events, which means further development of infrastructure in the capital and will contribute to the growth of tourism, as we know that every Hungarian person from Budapest's development, thus the country, will benefit. [[17 .30]] However, sport is not only a quantifiable benefit; it improves public health indicators for recreational sports and indirectly enhances competitiveness in the labour market. On the one hand, sport has a positive impact on the international perception of the country, on the other hand it has a unique cohesion and community building power. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the government considers sport as a strategic sector and continues to be committed to supporting sport, which, with the support of support schemes and professional incentives introduced in recent years, operates increasingly effectively in all areas concerned, from recreational sport to top sport, as well as in the area of supply training. Over the past period, we have helped sports processes with organisational management measures and transformations to the changing international requirements based on domestic practices; these too, in order to ensure that our sports organisations, athletes and sports professionals are as successful as possible. However, based on the experience of professional functioning and practical application, it has become clear that we can meet the new challenges that are constantly emerging by amending and clarifying certain points of the Sports Act. The bill that we are presenting to you now offers significant innovations in the life of Hungarian sport. Its main objective is, inter alia, to facilitate the widest possible use of state aid for sport, to supplement the rules on sports organisations and to clarify the safety requirements for sporting events. All this, according to the needs of a healthy and moving lifestyle and by emphasising it, is in our primary interest to recognise the 21st century. We know that it is much easier for people who are physically and spiritually healthy to meet the challenges of the century in any field of life. The proposed amendments to the Sports Act concern a number of areas of particular importance, such as the addition of the scope of sports status by introducing registered leisure sports status; the expansion of the employment potential of a professional athlete; the clarification of the legal conditions and court registration rules of national sports associations; the modification of tasks and competences related to the promotion of visual team sports; the measures on the safety of sports events, the rules on Olympic annuities, the presentation of government actors in relation to high-level sports events; the order of processing of personal data, including the data protection regulation and the performance of NSR tasks; and the clarification of the concept of Olympic and Paralympic events and sports academies. An extremely important part of the proposal is also the definition of tasks related to national and international cooperation and national platforms against the illicit influence of sports competitions, which have become necessary following the publication of the Convention. Overall, the amendments contained in the bill have dealt with issues raised by governments, public bodies and national sports associations in recent years in order to facilitate the monitoring of the application of law and the use of grants. Accordingly, data protection is one of today's most important issues, since the need for safe data processing, meeting both national laws and international requirements, is a legitimate expectation of the public in all areas of life. In sport, the safety of data management is a priority in the fight against, among other things, doping. In order for the Hungarian National Anti-Doping Organization, which conducts doping sampling and treatment procedures, HUNADO retains its full compliance status, the procedure must be fully in line with the rules of the International Anti-Doping Organization, WADA. At the same time, the implementation of anti-doping tasks requires the processing of personal, sometimes health, genetic and biometric data of athletes, which, if necessary, should also be known to other organisations involved in the fight against doping in order to fulfil their duties. Data processing and data transmission in the field of the fight against doping are also identified in the general data protection regulation in the context of the public interest, which aims to reduce and eliminate the use of doping drugs in sport. However, this can only be done if the new rules are consistent with domestic data protection legislation and international legislation. In order to ensure the rights and interests of the data subjects, the National Anti-Doping Organisation is obliged to develop measures and guarantees in accordance with the legal provisions in Hungary as well. The National Sport Information System, NSR, is an electronic and process management system for recording data on all areas and participants of Hungarian sport. In view of the change in the data protection rules, the rules of the Sports Act on NSR need to be amended, specifying in detail the mandatory and processed data, the scope of the data processing rights. In addition, the amendment also covers leisure sports, since there are significant traditions and organizational history of spending leisure time in Hungary; for example, the Hungarian Association for Leisure Sports, the Hungarian Association for Nature Walking or the Hungarian University-Főső Sports Association. Nevertheless, in the Hungarian leisure culture, active sport activities are still being pushed into the background of other leisure activities. It is therefore very important to sensitize society to sport, which is constantly and in the right direction. It is enough to think about the introduction of daily physical education or municipal recreational port programmes, but it is not enough to urge a change of attitude, so it is necessary to do so. At the same time, a direct and indirect financial incentive system should be developed to increase the mass base of recreational sports in order to ensure that as much of the Hungarian population as possible chooses to live actively and to use regular sports to protect their health. Let us think of an excellent trend in the ability to play sports in society as the ever more popular running programmes need to be further strengthened, so that the expansion of state aid to recreational sports has already begun, and the results show that this is the direction and we need to follow it. The bill therefore introduces the status of the registered leisure athlete, which provides the eligibility basis for the incentive scheme. The leisure athlete is now entitled to a variety of benefits granted by the State. The detailed rules for the voluntary registration process and the granting of benefits are laid down in a separate legislation. Taking into account the opportunities provided by the domestic sport funding system, the proposed amendment also provides the legal basis for sports associations to employ professional athletes, which is also included. This will increase the opportunities for professional athletes to enter into employment. In view of the Olympic events organised by the various international Olympic organisations and their growing scope, it is also necessary to follow this change in the Sports Act, as the exclusive role of the MOB in relation to these events should also be ensured and its task should be performed. [[17.40]] The growing number of youth and junior competitions also proves that in the field of sport there is an important role to be played by the training of replacements, as this supports the proper selection and preparation of each sport, the first step in the field of competition sports, the success of which is increasingly popular among national teams, and this is the key to the work. The selection and replacement training takes place on a number of scenes, but the basic site of replacement education is the sports association profession. In view of the age of athletes of replacement age, it is necessary to ensure that, in addition to supporting sport activities, the fulfilment of the school obligation is given a great deal of emphasis, so that athletes, sports associations responsible for their professional training and public education institutions can provide effective training along with coordinated tasks. This is the purpose of the sports academy, the concept of which is clearly defined in the Sports Act as a result of the amendment. According to this, the sports academy is a sports organisation that operates in the Olympic sport field and provides a fully high-quality background covering sports science, sports health, training programmes and infrastructure conditions, ensures the performance of the sports training tasks and the creation of conditions to assist athletes in their sports activities and learning. Currently, the national sports associations of visual team sports control the use of so-called tao subsidies and inform the Minister responsible for sport policy of the outcome of the audit. In order to standardise the control procedure, the proposal includes simplification, which will result in a much faster and more efficient monitoring. In the current operation, the audit of accounts and the submission of a closure notification are carried out in two separate organisations for each supported organisation. The bill therefore simplifies the tasks and powers involved in supporting visual team sports. The audit tasks of the accounts produced by amateur sports organisations below HUF 300 million are fully carried out under the competence of national sports associations and should also be included in the closure of inspections. The audit of the accounts of professional sports organisations and the accounting of every project worth HUF 300 million will be carried out by the Minister for Sports Policy. The new system will strengthen the effective execution of tasks and speed up the process, and the sanctions resulting from possible abuses detected during the audit will be implemented within a shorter period of time. In addition, the government pays particular attention to ensuring the conditions for sporting cheerleading and combating violence in the audience, as these are the basic conditions for cheerleading and watching a sporting event to become a regular family program again. What we're all trying to do is fill up sports halls and football stadiums. Effective application of the consequences of certain unsportsmanship is therefore essential. Our aim is to improve the conditions for a cultural match visit by more effective action against disorienting, illegal viewers and fans, and to further increase the audience numbers of sports events. Sports associations will therefore have additional tasks and regulatory obligations in the area of safety of sporting events. Provisions to deal with persons who have demonstrated or otherwise objectibly support an irregular conduct are also clarified and supplemented. In principle, amendments should be considered if the legislative amendment is voted in favour of Parliament, which, overall, expect an equal level of security to be established and guaranteed by the parties involved in the organisation and conduct of sports events, by public bodies. The current regulation has been developed following the recommendations of the Council of Europe's TWG and, thanks to the rules that have already been introduced, we have also achieved spectacular results in reducing spectator violence, but it is important for the travelling sports organisation to be able to act in order to ensure a more secure organisation of sports events in order to ensure the sport-like behaviour of the guest team. In the light of international practice, it is absolutely necessary and forward-looking to present basic provisions for contributors as new actors. On the basis of the UEFA requirements, we need to ensure regulation of the system of contributors in addition to directing activities already for the 2020 Eb, and it is essential that the cooperation obligation between the organizer, the director and the police be even closer. The consequences of certification of inappropriate spectators' behaviour as a fan of the guest team should also be addressed at foreign meetings, notably so that the guest sports organisation can act against its fans either by using exclusion or by using camera surveillance, of course, in compliance with the necessary data management provisions. We will also extend the option of camera surveillance, which will now also be possible in the event of sporting events not covered by the Government Decree on the Safety of Sports Events. We also need to deal with the necessary measures to ensure the security of sports events with an international dimension. It is necessary to ensure that those who have been banned from visiting the matches by a foreign sports organisation, authority or court are not allowed to participate in the Hungarian matches as viewers. To this end, the sports law enforcement record will also be expanded. In addition to making the current rules more realistic, the other major regulatory area of the bill is the definition of tasks related to national and international cooperation and national platforms against the illicit influence of sports competitions. Since 18 September 2014, the Council of Europe Convention on the illicit influence of competitions has been open for signature by all States. Hungary signed this in November 2016, after which it started examining the possibilities for implementing the tasks contained therein and preparing for the establishment of a national platform. In this context, our country participates in international cooperation initiatives that provide the professional basis for the establishment of the national platform. Within the Council of Europe, significant professional work and cooperation are taking place, one of the most important forums of which is the Copenhagen Group, which currently has 22 members. Hungary has been involved in its work since December 2017. The basic rules for the establishment, composition and functioning of the national platform shall be decided by the Government, but the tasks related to the management of the platform shall be defined in the Sports Act to ensure that the planned system is operational and to strengthen its participation in international cooperation. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the proposal, as it is aimed at facilitating the application of the law and complying with international standards, in the interests of Hungarian sport. Together, these goals serve to develop a health-conscious view of growing generations, along with our sport nation, the development of the identity of a healthy sports nation. And it is an undisputed fact that all Hungary, so the whole Hungarian nation, benefits from the education of more healthy, more mobile and active generations. We have been working on this since 2010, and this is also supported by the present bill, which has been prepared with the involvement of all actors in Hungarian sports life, based on their professional experience. In view of all this, please support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2018-11-13-136	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Robert Simon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-13-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill submitted by the Ministry of Human Resources in the field of sport has recently been to clarify and resolve issues arising from the government body responsible for sport policy in the field of sport, as well as from civil society organisations in the sector, which require legislation, in order to facilitate and assist the application of the law. The proposal complements the scope of sports status with the registered leisure athlete and states that these athletes will be eligible for a public discount scheme that will be developed later. The longest duration of the amateur sports contract is modified: one year in the case of minors and three years in the case of minors. According to the draft, the employment potential of a professional athlete is enhanced by the fact that a professional athlete can conclude a contract with the association with respect to the selected frame membership. One of the objectives of the proposed legislation is to amend the anti-doping legislation of Law I of 2004 on sport. The aim of anti-doping activities is to ensure that athletes can compete with each other on a level playing field in the spirit of fair play and to protect the health of athletes. International anti-doping activities are primarily linked to the European Council, UNESCO, the International Anti-Doping Agency, known as WADA, and the International Olympic Commission. The main document for anti-doping activities is the WADA International Anti-Doping Code, the last amendment of which entered into force on 1 April 2018. The purpose of the regulation is to integrate and harmonise anti-doping activities. The first part sets out the specific rules and principles to be followed by all organisations responsible for the application, implementation and implementation of anti-doping rules, such as the International Olympic Committee, the National Olympic Committees, international associations, sports event organisers and national anti-doping organisations. All provisions of the Code are essentially binding on all anti-doping organisations, athletes or other persons. The Hungarian legal system and sports organisations have integrated the international regulations, standards and conventions listed above. According to Law I of 2004 on Sport, the competitor is obliged to refrain from doping and to undergo doping tests. The Hungarian Antidoping Group was founded in 2007, which from that year onwards performs the tasks of the national anti-doping organisation. In 2017, the MACS, i.e. the Hungarian Antidoping Group, carried out a total of 4843 doping checks, in which ten cases the study ended with positive results in Olympic sports and nine non-Olympian sports. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of visual team sports, the tasks and powers associated with the support will be amended to make the performance of the task more efficient. Thus, the audit tasks of the accounts produced by amateur sports organisations below HUF 300 million will be carried out in full within the competence of the national sports associations, including the closure of the audits, and the Minister for Sport Policy will be responsible for checking the accounts of professional sports organisations and the clearance of all projects worth HUF 300 million. The proposal sets out clarifications and additions on the safety of sporting events, including in order to act more effectively with disorienting persons or other unsatisfying persons. The proposal states that, in the event of the certification of certain unsportsable behaviours set out in the Sports Act, the promoter should not enter the sporting event and, in the event of a breach of the provisions on the safety of sports events, where the viewer cannot enter the sporting event for any reason defined by law or in the light of a previous prohibition decision, the obligation to cooperate more closely between the organizer and the director and the police is to create more effective possibilities for police action. The draft also extends the possibility of camera surveillance to sports events not covered by the Government Decree on the Safety of Sports Events. The information on the club card is supplemented by the image of the club card holder. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal proposes amendments to the safety of sports events which, overall, expect the same level of safety and security from both the parties involved in the organisation, organisation of sporting events and public bodies. In addition, the government's submission contains clarifications on the rules of the Olympic allowance, on the rules of the National Sport Information System functions and related data management, and on the procedures for guaranteeing high-level sports events in Hungary. The powers of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Hungarian Paralympic Committee regarding property rights in connection with Olympic and Paralympic events will be clarified. The draft defines the concept of a sports academy and its basic conditions and requirements. Finally, the proposal sets out the establishment of a national platform against the illicit influence of sports competitions to facilitate national and international cooperation against the illicit influence of sports competitions and to implement the Council of Europe Convention on the illicit influence of sports competitions, as a proposing, consulting and consulting professional body, which falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Sports Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, As the lead speaker of Fidesz, our faction will support the bill submitted by the government. I would ask the representatives of the other parties to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2018-11-13-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr Simon, lead speaker of the Fidesz, returning to yesterday's day when the Member read a text, and then the substantive answer was no longer interested; I hope that today it will not be so with regard to this law, and you, as you are now taking sport in Fidesz, I hope that you will answer Jobbik's questions and suggestions in a debate on merit and that you may not have heard today's speech. Madam Secretary, there was an interesting part in your speech that I would like to ask you about before I get to the law. He mentioned that next year, Budapest will be the sports capital of Europe, and my question is whether any changes to sports law will be expected this year, possibly in connection with this, so whether, for example, the government plans to have these events carried out with a centralized event planning company or anything else. And contrary to the submission of the current sport law, if they are planning to do so, they may also seek the opinion of opposition parties, so whether there may be a five-party consultation. It's just a question of whether it'll be expected this year. And then let's actually get to this bill that's in front of us. The sports law is a fundamental legislative achievement of the Hungarian legal system, which affects the lives of almost all Hungarian citizens, affects the healthy physical development of growing generations and affects the health of society. The preamble of the sports law states precisely and beautifully that Hungary is a sports nation and the aim of the law is to make Hungary an athletic nation. With these objectives in mind, it is therefore necessary to examine the bill before us. Amendment 1 §2 introduces a new category for athletes; this category is the registered leisure athlete, which Mrs. State Secretary has already talked about for a long time. The new category of leisure athlete is distinguished only by the fact that he voluntarily registers in the National Sport Information System, the NSR, which is already defined in the current legislation. [[18.00]] In order to justify the introduction of the new category, the rapporteur argues that a significant part of the population prefers other activities, such as television and other computer activities, in relation to active sport activities in the field of leisure time. The explanatory statement states in one sentence that one of the main reasons for a low level of sport at social level is lack of leisure time. According to the justification, the willingness to play leisure sports should be encouraged through indirect financial means, although there is no mention of the nature and how of these instruments. And then let's talk about the introduction of a new concept of a registered leisure athlete. In such cases, it is always feared that it is not the sole purpose of this amendment that there is something in the background, something other than what the justification is about or what you are talking about. And here, too, it is feared that it may not be the way, and especially because Tünde Szabó specifically mentioned in his speech that István Garancsi presided over the Hungarian Nature Passing Association to put it in a better position than it has been in the past. It is true that employers have not yet recognised that sport and health conservation are common interests, but that it is not at all appropriate to introduce registered recreational sports status, since the average sports athlete is not in contact with the sports club or with a body that can register it. There are very few exceptions to this, such as the Hungarian Association for Nature Walking. I am sure that athletes in leisure time, although they will not register in the NSR, will only do so if one of the alliances wants to raise money for them, but this will not increase the number of athletes who want to play sports. This would require job support, such as voucher subsidies, but this market was just destroyed by the Fidesz government. The organisational framework for leisure sports is also based on the current rules. The Sports Act is familiar with the concept of recreational sports associations and recreational sports associations. Sport organisations engaged in the organisation of these recreational sports ports shall have the same status as other sports associations and sports associations. Sporters of non-recreational sports organisations are registered in NSR if they want to compete, otherwise these athletes are registered by their sports organisation on the basis of their membership status, student status or sports contract. The question arises: if registration in NSR is not necessary for non-competitors, non-recreational athletes, why is this possibility necessary for leisure athletes? If voluntary registration of leisure athletes will be accompanied in the future by some kind of discounts, why does the law not create the same opportunity for non-recreational athletes who do not compete? The introduction of a new registration, the construction of a new database, will only increase bureaucracy and give the state unnecessary additional space by entering people's privacy. That certainly won't increase people's willingness to play sports. This does not make sport and active life more attractive than alternative forms of leisure. The background to the new status proposed by the amending proposal is, in my opinion, unclear. The current organisational framework provides for the state to support leisure athletes, whether directly or indirectly, as the network of the association and federal institutions has established a significant tradition. Access to individual leisure athletes through the central system raises serious problems of effectiveness and concerns about data management. What is the purpose of the state by registering its citizens' leisure activities? This is an important issue, honourable Members. The last time we saw something like this was in the dark decades of existing socialism, when the paternal state wanted to determine for its citizens how to spend time off. Is that what the current government wants? Or it's just about making another expensive, pointless and unnecessary IT development that can make good money for friends, the Orbán family and its attached parts. Unfortunately, based on the experience of recent years, I am forced to think that these two reasons are the driving force that brought this part of the amending proposal to life. Without knowledge of the purpose of the amendment, this amendment cannot be accepted by any consensual Member without sufficient support. The bill is 2. §2 contains serious grammatical and legislative errors. Under the legislation currently in force, the sports association is entitled to issue competitive licences. On the other hand, the word for the issue of a competition licence has not been included in the amendment, and, on the basis of the context and customary law, it can, of course, be concluded that sports associations are entitled to issue competition licences, but these authorisations are practically abolished. This should be changed, which, in my view, is legally nonsense, and I have tabled an amendment. I'd like the Secretary of State to take a look. Another serious problem is that the current legislation on the content and form of competitive licences is clear. The content and form of the competition licences are uniform, it is determined by the Hungarian Olympic Committee, subject to the relevant ministerial decree. The text of the amendment leaves out the provision on the uniform content and form of competition licences. It doesn't make it easier to apply the law, it complicates it. It is important to point out that, in the reasons for the amendment, the author argues, I quote, that the registration of competition licences will also be made in NSR, that there will be a uniform interface for this purpose, and that there will be no need for implementing legislation on the matter. Will the form and content of competitive licences no longer be required by law? Then what is it? What's it gonna be? The NSR administrator, say, will determine? In my opinion, this is completely unthinkable. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's face it, this solution is neither legal nor reasonable, but least practical. Due to the inaccuracies of the amendment, it is not acceptable and cannot be supported. Let me say a few more words about this NSR, the national information system. NSR is an outdated, useless IT system. I recommend to all Members that you open the site and see how well the Hungarian government would operate one of the most important IT systems in sport. The Windows 95 provides an undisclosed, qualityless user environment compared to it. Check it out, fellow Members. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). a government decision has provided for the The development of the system is essential and it is not able to perform the tasks specified in the legislative amendment in its present state. Remember, Tamás Deutsch announced the extended NSR in 2017 in 2016, Tünde Szabó announced the completion of a single digital sports data system in 2017. It's not working right now. It is a pleasure that the issue will be again on the agenda after years, and its legal conditions will be established, but unfortunately, the past shows that this is not appropriate at the moment, and yet it is constantly being referred to. The amending proposal was adopted in accordance with Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, The sports association would be entitled to use the name and image of the athlete, including to promote sport. The image of an athlete is personal data that is subject to increased legal protection. The currently in force Ptk. 248. § 2 of the Act requires the consent of the person concerned to use the image. The amending proposal is contrary to the current regulation of the Ptk. and is therefore not acceptable. There are a number of problems with the provision: what is the aim of promoting sport, for example? If the sports association, with the aim of promoting sport, is pursuing an advertising campaign, such as, as a result of which it is earning revenue, is there any part of this revenue that is due to the athlete giving the face of the campaign? Or if the sports association doesn't run a campaign that the athlete doesn't like, can the athlete put his picture and his name on it without any permission? So let's say that if any of the sports associations think that they're going to write out that let's say we stop Soros with the sport, help Viktor Orbán, help Viktor Orbán fight, be a football player. And you put anyone's name and picture out there, so he can't do anything about it? [[18.10]] I know this is an extreme example, but in the law, things like this can happen. They don't ask the person if he even likes this campaign or if he agrees with this campaign. The issue of the use of image is a question that cannot be smuggled into a legal place with a hidden semi-spoken phrase to settle completely other issues, the issue of licensing and registration. The text of the amendment proposal in its present form is unacceptable, poor work, which would not only help, but rather make the application of the law more difficult in my view. Under the current Sports Act, a professional athlete can only conclude a sports contract with a sports undertaking. Since there is still a lot to ask, and I see that my time is running out, I would like to finish now and continue in another normal speech. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-140	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-13-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I do not wish to list the points or paragraphs in which the sports law is changing on the basis of this proposal, but I would just like to point out that the developments that have taken place in recent years and the improvements that will continue to take place in order to be able to organise more European or world competitions in Hungary, what this means, say, in a Cegléd and its surroundings in the countryside, I would like to say a few thoughts. It means that I can add hundreds and even thousands of numbers, not only in team sports, but also in other sports, whether I watch the judo or watch wrestling or watch swimming in the built swimming pool. A lot of children have learned to swim, a lot of children go to sports fields, and I think the government's goal, which says that Hungary will become a sports nation, will be more and more a goal. Obviously, it takes years for this to happen, but I think the road is good. The government's view of sport as a success sector is a key issue, since it is not only about the world-wide use of top sport, whether we look at the last World Wrestling Championship in Budapest, but also in student sports, disadvantaged, disabled sports, and also about the increasing use of facilities that will be built and built, which will, in the long term, affect the economy and affect the need for less money for health care. Obviously, it's unlikely that this will affect us, but our children, our grandchildren, in any way. I believe that the proposed legislation will take the right direction, move the current sport law in the right direction, and that the KDNP fraction supports the adoption of this law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-142	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-13-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Nearly two years ago, Parliament adopted a comprehensive amendment to the sports law, so the scope and direction of the amendment are surprising. At that time, we could listen to how good it is to have the public funding of sport through a single channel, the sports secretary of state of EMMI, and, of course, seven years ago, we listened to how good it is to have the public funding of sport through a channel, through the MOB. I was just suggesting that sports law has been changed a lot in the last eight-and-a-half years by the Parliament. Everything has been here and the opposite, because the big, comprehensive amendment from two years ago has decapitated the MOB and since then Hungarian sports life has taken radically different directions. There may be a lot of questions about the presentation, and obviously, as we have heard a general introduction to the secretary-general, and the pro-government speeches, the general speakers of Fidesz and KDNP have also made statements that could have been said or said eight years ago, perhaps if we looked back at the minutes: let us be a nation of sports sports, so that citizens can play sports as much as possible, so that the facilities that need to be filled with life, a strategic sector, serious funding, all of which have been said in previous years. One such proposal, which ultimately covers virtually all areas of sport governance and the structure of sport, I think is suitable for a little appreciation. On the one hand, I think that the strategic nature of sport, the fact that you are indisputably investing very large budgetary resources in the field of sport, is not a kind of grace for citizens, but a huge responsibility for you to make improvements in the development of facilities that are really needed and, on the other hand, to make them available to everyone to use the possibility of sport, to make these facilities available to them. There is therefore a need for more gymnasiums and less luxury-sports investments that are not filled with life and, if necessary, are empty. But let us go through the proposal, or at least the main points that have already been mentioned here by György Szilágyi and my opposition colleague. The proposal addresses the issue of the registered leisure athlete. My colleague Szilágyi expressed quite a serious scepticism about the specific proposal. It occurred to me, too, whether or not Garanchi had something to do with this specific passage, but let's be a little indulgent, I'd like to say that we'll see what comes out of this, it's unclear how much this is necessary. I would say that in a normally functioning country, which obviously has legislation in terms of sport and proposals that really help the Parliament, there may be benefits for registered leisure athletes, or, for example, for employers, different cafeteria elements can be linked to an institution such as registered leisure athletes. However, today, the cafeteria system was destroyed specifically. Today, the summary amends tax legislation or 107 pages, we have again tried to maintain the previous wide cafeteria system. We have tabled an amendment that has been voted off by the Legislative Committee. I don't see the desire to open wider gates in this direction than with regard to leisure athletes. Your Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance said very strongly, for example, that this is a complicated system, there is no need for it, the simplification of the cafeteria elements is their plan, they've destroyed the cafeteria system, but let's be reasonable, let's hope there's something going on. In any case, I am surprised by the fact that all of our proposals were previously rejected, such as the possibility for recreational sports associations to benefit from Tao, the possibility of tax relief, and in particular, in the early 10's, the use of abusively low resources for recreational sports was made in individual budgets. Here, we were also able to note that, although there was a real increase in the resources spent on the whole sport area, in terms of recreational port, there was even a decline in the first years of their governance, which we considered to be particularly harmful, and this remains the same. [[18.20]] We are interested in greater resources for recreational sports and to open up the building of sports facilities to the larger masses. In the context of support for visual team sports, there is more clarification and provisions on making it more effective, at least in your use of the word. Here again, I would like to say that there were five visual team sports originally, and now there is volleyball; obviously it is important that it is here. It raises the question of what a fidesz connection it is, but we hope they can make good use of this opportunity there. But the experience and practice that many Olympic sports would also benefit from corporate tax advantages if they had the opportunity to do so. In fact, I'm going to go on: not Olympic sports, too. Here, let me mention karate, which is not one of the largest sports in Hungary moving masses as an Olympic sport. I think opening up to them would also be important for the system of social tax benefits. And the check-up. I can see they're avoiding this all the time. I think that my fellow opposition Members will be talking about this here; they are secretive, public data and public data are not available for certain football academies and very serious billion-dollar subsidies. It upsets the public. Again, I would like to put it on the table that I am also deeply disturbed because I am a sports-loving man, and we are sports-loving people here with many of my fellow opposition Members. So we want the system to work well, but what we see is that their belief in the field of sport is often shaken by the fact that there are indeed sundamn situations here. There is therefore a task to make the system of social tax concessions transparent. We need to make these resources open, transparent, and in relation to their award, let us say, with regard to effectiveness, or even the number of viewers. For example, whether these grants will be awarded to a football club whose matches anyone wants to see at all, or only paid extras will be included in a match. The possibility of maintenance of facilities, which has been opened today by the amendment of tax legislation, or the possibility of partial replacement of losses arising from the maintenance of facilities, shows that there was no real social need for a significant part of the facilities you have built. There are places where the creation of such an establishment has served a real social need. Let my hands stretch a little on the way home, the stadium investment in Diósgyőr is a justified investment, which will be filled with life, especially if the results of the team are better, which I sincerely believe, but in many other areas, the country is not full of these facilities. And yet you have just destroyed the cultural institution, and in the field of performing arts, you can no longer take advantage of this opportunity next year, which is a huge cut for another sphere. After that, the minimum is to make the system more transparent in the field of visual team sports. I believe that the proposals for the safety of sports events have been discussed fifteen times in the last eight to eight and a half years by the Parliament. In most places we managed to solve these security problems, because people don't really go to matches anymore, so there are no security issues. And for an NB I match, it is a huge torturing to get in in in many cases, and there is an extraordinary administrative burden on people in this context, which, of course, they are trying to reduce gradually, because they may have realized that they pushed the bike a little too far in relation to the legislation that was adopted for the first time. However, I still believe that this is not in proportion to the suffering that a sporting event like this represents for the fans. So I would like to say that the user-friendly nature must also be preserved as regards the safety of sports events. First, the cheerleader, especially with regard to Hungarian football; I would like to emphasise this. It is right that any proposal that comes here in connection with the illicit influence of sports competitions in the context of domestic or international cooperation should be included. We will support these and, of course, the clarification of the rules of the Olympic allowance. György Szilágyi spoke correctly about the anomalies of the National Sport Information System. I would also like to say a few more words about the clarification of high-level sports events in Hungary, because I also think that these are issues, the high-level domestic sports events, which often trigger the adoration of society and sometimes their dislike. The reason for this is often the exaggeration that already exists in quantity, which does not bother me as a sports-loving person, but, let's say, the justification of an event can be investigated. In particular, I would like to say this in the context of the boxing alliance and the problems in the press regarding the organisation of the World Youth Championship. It would also have been better if it had already been organised, to link it to other events, in packages, to possibly bring a more viewed or serious event underway, or, where appropriate, to be a little more stringent about the need for settlement, as there has been a very significant increase in the costs of the settlement. But I could also bring you questions about the tennis league, the mobile stands, the terrible billions, which are certainly inappropriate and transparent. But if you want to create a tennis center in the countryside about Kisvárda, I think one of these would make more sense in a larger county seat, such as Miskolc. The scale and fragmentation of the proposal tells us that, although there are a lot of forward-looking elements in it, we are skeptical on the basis of recent years, our group is skeptical about whether it is certain that this proposal serves increased goals and other principles, or that certain elements of it serve very specific economic purposes. We will look at the amendments. We are accustomed to the fact that the Legislative Committee will make substantive amendments to these kinds of proposals in the last moments, and in light of this, we will establish the position of our group. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-144	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-13-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to say that I am a great friend of Hungarian sports and a great supporter of Hungary, and I am truly pleased with each Hungarian victory and international success. I do not share the opinion of those who say that just because they hate the Orbán government, I add, that I have a bad opinion about it, that it should be linked to sports results, and that every single sport result could be considered a government success, which I disagree with by far, but in the minds of many people, sport and politics are connected at this level. I think that the success of Hungarian sports must be sincerely welcomed, and I will be happy to participate in it, even because the unfortunately short period of time of the Hungarian Olympic Academy has been completed myself. However, it should also be pointed out that there are a lot of problems around Hungarian sports, even if there are good results. I'm just saying a few problems, and basically they always revolve around money. Because the sport-loving self of man is pleased when Péter Bácsi wins the World Championship at the Wrestling World Championship in Budapest, but his socially sensitive spirit is very difficult to bear when he reads that 3,000 people will be bused to a world event free of charge. At this point, it is very difficult for one to balance the situation that, on the one hand, one is happy that a Hungarian wrestler turned a world championship final from a completely beaten situation, with a terrible spirit, and he was able to win, while one sees that so much money is missing in Hungary, that sometimes he senses waste. And what my fellow Member László Varga said can be seen elsewhere. [[18.30]] This is because suddenly a lot of money has come into sport, and not everywhere it is thought that it must be spent on sports. We remember the scandals around the tennis league, and not just anyone, Tímea Babos and Márton Fuchovich, said that what's going on here doesn't work. But I could say in the same respect the boxing alliance, where they have already filed charges for embezzlement, because hundreds of millions of forints were lost in particular there. Also relevant news, and I would very much like you to reassure me that you are not building a 20,000 handball hall, are you? There is a handball hall in Hungary, the finals of the Champions League could be held in the Budapest Arena, and Győr won it, thank God, but I still think it is such an amazing waste in a country where hundreds of people die of hospital infection a year, and I don't want to give any more examples of social problems, that I think the limit of madness is to build a 20,000 handball hall, a completely unnecessary and useless investment. We consider it very important, in addition to leading sports, to support mass sports. I think we should spend more money on this. Indeed, there is a great deal of so-called luxury investment, visual investment. I don't just have a bad opinion about stadium investments because I think these are the straight stadiums they built, because they all look the same, because they're built by the same people, only one has a red chair, and the other one has a green chair, and the third one is blue. So the original stadiums also lost the mood given by the given architectural structure. Indeed, with these investments, precisely because the tickets have become more expensive, and it is very difficult for the audience to get into these stadiums because of all the registrations, the viewers are lost. There's a lot less people at a football game today than, say, ten, especially 20 years ago. This trend should definitely be reversed. I have just read statistics that the NB1 tournament has increased by 300 people compared to last year, but they did not add that this is virtually provided by Ferencváros' 10 000 average viewer number for football NB1. Transparency of Tao money is very important. I must say here that the Democratic Coalition, along with Judit Earth Presidency member and my colleague László Varju, visited the EMMI just last week. Because we have finally won the lawsuit that the contracts and bills of the supply academy must be issued. There has been a final court ruling on this for more than a year, and we have been received by a gentleman at the door by the fact that we are currently working on all these bills. I don't know what the working paper can be for a government account. I hope it's not that the decimal commas are being moved from place to place. He told us to go to the Secretary of State for Sports on Moon Street and ask what's going on with these bills. This gentleman promised us that they would finish processing around December. So I would like to say to the Secretary of State that, in the first half of December, we will pay our respects and we would like to look at these bills. My other problem is that more kids should be involved in sports. I have to see that the work of your ministry should be coordinated, because the education department, for example, will keep the children in school until 4:00 p.m. They sit eight hours a day in elementary school with brutal stress. Today, I've heard a fantastic statistic that every day there's a gym class, just standing outside in street clothes in the school hallway doing a circle and stuff. It happens in many places in schools, by the way. So we think it would be worth spending more money on them. The second is that many people are also disturbed by the fact that it will now be possible to use Tao support to maintain sports facilities. We understand, for example, that there is simply no company that maintains these stadiums. Lajos Kósa, who is sitting in this room, knows that the maintenance of the stadium in Debrecen has caused terrible losses, because since the stadium was built, the old stadium in Nagyerde became 6-8 thousand audiences of 2,000 people, which I sincerely regret, because there were great, fantastic matches in the old stadium in Nagyerde. There are not enough viewers in these stadiums not only to create a mood, but also to generate revenue and support it. In Szombathely, similar situations have been reported, that there is no company there that could simply maintain the stadium that was built there. We don't think that's right either. It is very important that if you register those involved in mass sports, on the one hand, for those people who are not Fidesz fans, all kinds of news from the last few days will pop in. In one of them, we read that Facebook comments are registered and read. The news of two days ago was that Hungarian citizens visiting the hotel will also be registered with whom they went and where and for how many days. I really, really do not want this to be another list where, to say the least, they are trying to obtain confidential information about Hungarian citizens who are peacefully athletes. If the goal really was to provide these people, who are willing to register themselves, to participate in the work of a community of mass sports or leisure, then they could really be supported by sports equipment, or they could be given tickets to sports programmes, or indeed provide them with a cafeteria service. This would indeed make sense and possibly have a leverage effect. Finally, I would like to say that Hungarian sport is really very important, not only because it is part of national cohesion, but also because it simply contributes to people's souls by plus. I would therefore like to say that, above all, the area around football needs to be fixed. Quite simply, the structure itself is not good. In the NB1, half of them are in Budapest, practically half a Budapest Championship and some very small cities. The real cities of Hungary are virtually eliminated, mainly as a result of administrative decisions, from the circle of Hungarian football. Indeed, the fact is that the performance of the Hungarian football team is on the world rankings, so to speak, is not very prominent. But the solution is not to spend the money without counting. And once again, I ask the secretary of state to try to coordinate the work that children who are terribly burdened at school should not have to be in there until 4:00, be in there until 2:00, until then you can learn what can be learned, and then you can learn music, play sports, move, relax, do anything. I think it's a lot closer to the ideals of a civilian family than the slavery they're about to receive. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-146	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. So I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa.
u2018-11-13-147	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, is gravely mistaken, and the stadium in Debrecen is profitable. Not long ago, the general meeting in Debrecen discussed the company's report, which showed a positive post-tax outcome. However, other football stadiums are also known, which operate profitablely, such as Ferencváros Groupama Stadium is also an effective farmer. This depends to a significant extent on the fact that a stadium is only suitable for the organisation of football events, or a multifunctional stadium such as the Stadium in Debrecen, where, by the way, several fully booked events have been held in recent years, although they were not football events. [[18.40]] But after the Stadium in Debrecen was built to be fully multifunctional, for example, every year there is the event of the University of Debrecen, where about 22,000 people sit through a multi-hour show, this is yoUDay; or there is the closing event of the flower carnival where there are several full houses; and every year in the Nagyerde Stadium in Debrecen and its immediate surroundings the Campus Festival, which now has a number of visitors above 100,000. So there are a series of events that also generate revenue for the stadium. So I'm gonna say this again: the stadium in Debrecen is profitable. But there are other football stadiums that are profitable. And the other thing I'm gonna tell you is that you let me see Debrecent as a real big city, and Loki, the city's team, is a participant in NB I. You said the real cities aren't in the NB I. Debrecent is definitely a real big city, Székesfehérvár, which is now giving a championship team, and there are small towns, but there are real cities. In fact, let me see Miskolc as a real city, and DVTK represents sport with his football team.
u2018-11-13-148	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2018-11-13-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased to hear Lajos Kósa's speech, as it can be exemplary for the city of Debrecen in the coming period, where they will not have to require money from the lake for stadium maintenance. That's how we saved the budget. I wish there were more cities like this. If you have already responded to Zsolt Gréczy's words, and Zsolt Gréczy mentioned only one comment about the number of viewers in the football matches, the fidesz answer, my dear fellow Member, is that not only quantity matters, but also quality. Think about it: for long days and weeks, the entire Hungarian football community was burning with a fever that there were 61 or 62 viewers at the Felcsút-Kisvárda match, the leader of NER's two top teams. That was a huge debate, by the way. But not only the quantity, but also the quality, because among the 61 viewers, what kind of personalities could there be... But I only added this in parentheses. Let's get back to this wide-ranging bill, which is why I would like to continue after my speech as a speaker. Let us move on to sports contracts and the separation of amateur and professional sport, which we will see how effective this amendment is. Under the current Sports Act, a professional athlete can only conclude a sports contract with a sports undertaking. The concept of this regulation was to make clear separation between professional sport and amateur sport. This concept is confused by the current amendment proposal, which is set out in Article 6 (1). This allows professional athletes, i.e. persons who compete professionally for income purposes, to conclude sports contracts with sports associations. In my view, the amendment does not serve the financing of sport and the clarification or transparency of the system of accounting with it. The separation of amateur sport and professional or professional sport is a fundamental requirement, since the two areas have different roles, social roles and economic importance. Mixing these two areas is, in my opinion, a serious professional mistake. The justification for the amendment refers to the need for change because, because of the various state aids, sports associations are now able to hire professional competitors. This is a fact, but is it desirable for the relationship between sport and society? Sport associations are distinguished by the fact that they do not seek profits. Regeneration, community building and social thinking are carried out through the implementation of amateur sport and the provision of its framework. On the other hand, the aim of sports companies is to implement and provide a framework for professional competition with a view to obtaining material benefits. In my opinion, if we allow associations hosting amateur sports to conclude sports contracts with professional competitors, then all we can do is shift some of the resources of these associations from amateur sports to professional competition, which is fundamentally contrary to the concept of the current sport law, to the interests of Hungarian sport, and to common sense. The amending proposal is set out in Annex 8. In Section 5 of the Sports Act, it plans to introduce the concept of sports academies as a specific type of sport organisation. We've been talking about this before. Among the tasks of the sports academy type of organisation, the amending proposal highlights the specificness of sport, highly high quality training, sports, sports health, infrastructure and sports management services and the high level of training of competitors in sports. These tasks are carried out by organisations belonging to the current organisational categories, such as sports schools or foundations for the development of replacement education. Of course, preparing professional competitors for competitions is not the responsibility of these institutions, but of sports companies according to the rules in force. The planned sports academy is therefore an organisation in which amateur and professional sport are again mixed, business and public engagement are mixed. The lack of transparency or uncontrollability of sport funding in recent years is only increasing with the introduction of a new organisational category. The new category will clearly provide an opportunity for government to provide funds to institutions, sports and persons that are dear to it in an uncontrollable way. This does not serve the development of Hungarian sport, it does not serve the spread of a healthy active lifestyle; the sports academy as an institutional form included in the amendment proposal does not bring anything new compared to the existing institutional categories, so the inclusion of the law is contrary to both the law and common sense. The expansion of existing institutional categories only increases legal uncertainty and lack of transparency, which is an undesirable phenomenon in any field of life, especially in sport. Let's talk about the tao and the academy. Mushroom-style football stadiums that multiply and cannot be operated remind all Hungarian voters of the hobby of our dear leader. In itself, this phenomenon will also be a source of serious social and financial problems later on, as we have seen in the context of the legislative amendment that has been submitted. However, if this madness affects other sports, it suddenly affects a lot more people. The appearance of the Tao in sport had many effects that Jobbik drew attention to many years ago, and the fellow Members of the Fidesz were laughing at our professional proposals. Since then, we have been justified by time, and in some ways they have seen their flaws, of course, not by self-criticism. In addition to the amendment of the Tao, the other problem, which will also affect the entire Hungarian sport, is the construction of a completely pointless academy system. Our dear leader has certainly been convinced that, like the excellent Hungarian football academys, we must introduce the academy system in visual team sports and the 16 major sports disciplines. My fellow Members, there is one thing you can be sure of. If this kind of sport organization is introduced in Hungarian sports life, then our successful sports will now fall to the level of Hungarian football. None of the conditions laid down for the academy in the legislative amendment are expected of a well-functioning sports association. Why, though, is it necessary to create unprofessionally justified institutions? The goal here is also to enrich the Fidesz circles of friends and companies by investing in meaningless and unreliable sports trades. But the sports unions will be cornered. Professionally, they know that the creation of such academies is completely pointless, the strength of Hungarian sport is given by already functioning sports workshops, which are usually related to well-functioning sports associations, creating centrally and thereby giving coaches and competitors a financial and infrastructure advantage over others, and will mean the death of sports. The government's intention would be to take a step in the opposite direction. Support should be diversified, subsidies should be decentralised rather than centralised, not spent on a senseless investment in prestige, but on support for the development of sport, such as supporting rural clubs and reducing the burden on parents. The proposal before us will not only have a negative impact on team sports, for example, on the Mocsai Handball Academy, but will primarily affect individual sports, where coaching and racing relationships can be ruined with the establishment of an academy; and non-supported workshops may cease. The sports professional associations in Hungary are in a vulnerable position, no one wants to hear their professional opinion, the only way for many associations to get additional resources is by entering the academy system, despite the fact that there has been no professional consultation in the associations. The amendment empowers the government to establish the conditions and procedures for obtaining a sports academia qualification in a regulation. The adopted budget for 2019 also includes separate funds for academies, with more than HUF 7 billion for the development of academia system of national sports associations. [[18.50]] This amount was not made up suddenly, several national sports associations have already submitted concrete academic proposals to the government with the help of the sports secretary of the EMMI. If there had not been a government decision that laid down the conditions, how these materials were drawn up, and on what basis did the more than 7 billion dollars come into the budget for next year, for which the relevant sports associations submitted applications already in 2017? That is a very important question, Madam Secretary, because this is a rather interesting situation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If you want to see what the Hungarian government's idea of an academy is like, let me introduce you to one. Let's take a look at the Hungarian miracle, the plans of the Tennis Academy in Kisvárda. First of all, the question of the average voter is, is there a demand for a tennis academy in Kisvárda? So why not Nyíregyháza, where Márton Fuchovich met the foundations of the sport? The tennis in Kisvárda must be well-known in Fidesz circles, the academy was built in a beautiful place on the shore of a fish pond, with a gross HUF 3 billion. Sports professional considerations did not hinder planning, of course, so it could be realized that the facility would not have a gymnasium. Instead, there is a concrete sports corridor, but instead there will be a 10 million luxury jacuzzi, bar, clubroom, outdoor swimming pool, VIP section. Of course, the wellness area will only be used by VIP guests. The VIP guests certainly don't want to exert themselves, so it was unnecessary to design a gym for the academy, and unlike you, I don't like to say populist speeches in principle, but the entire Hungarian countryside could have been flourished with 3 billion forints. Ask the tennis clubs what that money would have meant for the sport. The sad thing is that you will vote in favour of this amendment, and you will spread this approach in other sports. I would like to talk about two more things, the first, and I do not know if I will fit into the time again, then I may ask again the patience of my fellow Members, one that is not included in this legislative proposal, because we have been waiting for my fellow Members to get involved, because during the elections, Viktor Orbán made a promise that we thought could be respected. It happened that Viktor Orbán, because he spoke about security and cheerleaders and so on, visited Diósgyőr, and there he met the fans of Diósgyőr, who he promised before the elections that he would agree that pyrotechnics could be used in the stadiums, because there was no atmosphere. So they can't fire up the 61 spectators who went to the Felcsút-Kisvárda game, how much better the mood would be if they could use pyrotechnics, and he promised that after the election, [[Hungarian Zoltán: That's right!]] it will be possible to use pyrotechnic articles. We have now waited, we have waited, it has been several months, it has not been possible, we have tabled an amendment to help Viktor Orbán and yet there may be pyrotechnic devices. A normal and safe solution could otherwise be found. Somehow, the Fidesz MEPs at the meeting of the Cultural Committee opposed the guidance of our wise leader and voted against this amendment. So we expected it to come in now, perhaps, so that there would not be an amendment tabled by a better Member on the Sports Act, but even though we were waiting for it, no, no, and this proposal did not come here. Again, I apologize to you, I promise you that I will be brief in the next part, because there is only one thing that is so unnecessary in this law that I do not understand, how it got in at all, why it got in there, it doesn't change anything. This defines the concept of contributor. In my opinion, it doesn't change anything, and I'd like to say a few more sentences about a few paragraphs in the coming period. But I would ask the Secretary of State to consider the guidance of our wise leader during the remainder of the period, while perhaps the amendments may be dealt with, and perhaps see how pyrotechnic articles can be used in the stadiums. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-150	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa in a normal time frame.
u2018-11-13-151	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I have listened with great pleasure to my colleague Szilágyi's discussion. [[Defiance. Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]] I suppose he relied solely on personal experience in the use of pyrotechnic articles, as a sincere believer of the former infamous Fradi B-center member, Ferenc Hypós. But the thing is, look, I just can't... [[György Szilágyi: I was his friend, not his devotee!]] He's a believer and a friend, an honest believer. Congratulations on that. [[György Szilágyi: Thank you very much.]] The fact is that we can't do any good, even though we do not have such a government or faction objective in relation to Jobbik, I just want to draw attention to the fact that, of course, we can do this ironically, but there are some things that we agree with the Prime Minister and some that we don't. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oops!]] Of course, for example, the use of pyrotechnic articles in stadiums is such a question, for example, I, frankly, oppose the use of pyrotechnic articles in stadiums, I think it is extremely dangerous, and I think that a football event can be brought up with great actions, but I would rather think about the use of pyrotechnic articles later. I'd prefer if, let's say, the fans encouraged the troops in a cultural way. But what I'm trying to say is, well, you don't have to go to all the trouble, because we're just like any normal political force: there's something we agree on, there's something we're arguing about. What I would like to say to him is what my fellow Member said about the academic system and the academys, because from what he said, it was clear that my fellow Member did not understand the academic system very well. At least he said things that strongly support this view. The fact is that the academic system is very much different from the average sports association. In addition, it is sport-specific, because as many sports as there are many well-functioning academic systems. But what is very important is that while the basic rule is that, of course, in sports associations, we provide children who are athletes with infrastructure, opportunity, coach, the academic system is significantly different from the need to ensure that children live there. So it reminds me more of a sports campus than of an average association, perhaps even my fellow Member Szilágyi knows that average sports clubs do not provide accommodation for athletes, children or adults. [[György Szilágyi: Sports schools neither!]] And in Hungary, my fellow Member Szilágyi, there are a number of sports that can only be successful if he is otherwise trying to prepare his competitors in an academic system, so he is trying to prepare his competitors in such a sports-college system, simply because Hungarian talents make this possible. I would just like to give you an example: the Hungarian linetrek is among the world's leaders today. The World Cup tournaments were recently held, and I can safely say that we have reached the fourth place in the race of nations, and we have destroyed the world, boys and girls alike. In Hungary, this short-track speed skating is 105. 105! In South Korea, 300,000, in China, million. Or in terms of opportunities: Canada is also strong in this sport, Canada has 3 thousand tracks, in Hungary 22. And yet we beat Canada, beat China, beat South Korea. [[19.00]] It is only possible to concentrate on the available resources of the sport and try to do so in a certain academic system, because otherwise we cannot keep up with those countries who are much larger in both the size of the population and in economic resources than we are. In the present case, the academic system must be imagined as really unlike an association by making full care, college, education and daily preparation for the children invited there, otherwise the educational program will be adapted to their preparation. It's very different from what a normal society knows. Of course, one can take the view of what this is, because Hungary is exactly the same country as it is without its sports success, and there is a significant difference between us here. We believe that for the Hungarian national identity, the Hungarian sense of community, the Hungarian Habitian, a kind of common thinking, a shared experience and a common point for the Hungarians, which the Hungarians, by the way, reach around the world, and we can safely say that Hungary is among the ten first nations of the world in terms of Olympic success. We are the lowest in the ten, we are the lowest in GDP, and we are usually the weakest in sports. Of course, you can highlight things that seem unrealistic from academic development, but I am a believer in it, Mr Szilágyi [[György Szilágyi is in position to call.]] If we're going to build an academy, we're going to do it with multifunctionality. Of course, you don't need to know, but for example, Santa Monica Club is the pattern. The point is that they run a sports club in Santa Monica where the Olympic champions train together with the otherwise wealthy citizens, because that's their prestige, but they build a Jacuzzi for that, but that's what they keep themselves from. So it is possible to object to the fact that it is in the Kisvárda complex planned to operate in the academic system, but if, by the way, a part of the citizens of Kisvárda who have money thinks that it is a club life, a social, community life, and it is with the contestants, then I think that this must be done, because if the academic system is not built in such a way as to incorporate the opportunities that may generate income, then it is certain that it will cost much more to maintain it. Therefore, I support the academy system to a large extent, and I also consider legislation useful because today the academy is, in fact, distinguished from the non-academy by the name of the academy. So with this power, the gym on Akadémia Street is also an academic sports center, because there is no rule system for what can or cannot be called an academy in funding, operation and accreditation. In this sense, it is extremely disturbing, because there are very well-functioning academys, there are very well-functioning workshops that have never been academys, but they have performed outstandingly, see the legendary saturday pitching school, and of course there are very large associations with very large funding, and they have nothing to do with the academy. So the fact that we have some sort of order in this is something that I think should be expressly supported. I would like to say one more thing, because this is constantly revealed in all sports-related debates, which is how so-called sports facilities are developed and operated. Of course, some people just translate this into a simple stadium question, but otherwise it is more complicated to put it. Our basic points of view are different. We believe that sport is an integral part of culture, inseparable from it [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] This means that we also consider the development of sports facilities as part of the development of cultural infrastructure. And we don't ask why the devil we build the Hungarian Natural History Museum if there are only 140,000 visitors a year in the Debrecen Zoo 500 thousand in a worse year; then we throw it all away, sell the bones, the dinosaurs, I don't know what they are, because it doesn't bring the money, let's make a kilos sale instead, it brings the money. We just think that culture should not be measured in this way, we think that the Hungarian National Gallery should be operated even if 80 percent of the wonderful material collected in it has never been exhibited. This is a fact, as most of the materials collected in museums are not usually produced because of the amount of material produced in archeology and shopping that is not sufficiently equipped, but it would not make me think that then what we do not produce is what we sell the money to. As I think Opera should be operated, it will never be profitable, and it will always be possible to ask that, compared to the costs of hundreds of millions of billionaires on stage, there are a few hundred visitors, and half of them are foreigners or the larger half of them are foreigners who wander into the Opera for what? What's this for? Let's sell it. I'm sure someone can bring a good hotel investor. Now, the thing is, we don't think that way. Imagine if our point of view wasn't invented by us, perhaps you were aware that there was an antiquities and a Greek concept in it, which, by the way, understood body culture as part of culture, and even said that if you couldn't swim, you were uneducated. So we think that, yes, the development of sports facilities is a cultural facility. Another story is that, where appropriate, an income-generating event can be organised in a cultural establishment. Why not? In the Debrecen Model, it is an exhibition space, for example, we usually rent the exhibition space together with the exhibition, and we always ask if they give permission for, for example, corporate receptions. It's not a cultural event, but it brings the money, and by the way, companies like prestige. Now, the thing is, this does not fool you about the fact that all over the world, perhaps even in the United States, but it really is not a sport, but an entertainment industry, except for the infrastructure of major championships, sports infrastructure development is not profitable, not even the construction of Bernabéu Stadium brought in the money, not to mention Wembley. At the same time, I wouldn't advise Catalans to tear down what the hell they're doing, but they're falling apart. [[Defiance.]] 'Cause it's pretty good what they're doing, and it's also an integral part of Catalan consciousness. So the fundamental debate among my fellow Members is that we think and consistently carry on this attitude in the development of facilities and attitude, so it makes sense to open the Tao to maintenance, as I think it makes sense to rethink and support state funding from the point of view of cultural facilities, forint-for-money support in the maintenance of theatres, and the rest, and so that culture is something that we do not imagine on the market, on a market basis. Now, everyone who argues for the stadium's unnecessaryness is implied, because they're ashamed to admit it, actually thinks that sports are not part of culture, so they have to be treated as separate from the Opera. To tell us to shut down the Opera because it's expensive and what it's for, and it doesn't bring the money, it's embarrassing, but the thing is, you have to be consistent then. It's a valid position, let's argue about it. You are obviously at that base station on principle, and this is how you take down this whole stadium and sports infrastructure issue, that for some reason sport and body cultivation are not part of human culture, but something else. It's possible to live the world that way, but we think once again that sports and therefore the development of sports is part of culture. It is not a coincidence that sport is not on a sports business platform in some Ministry of Economy or on its own, but in the Ministry of Human Resources, so even this obvious organisational solution expresses this. I wanted to say all this because sometimes if we don't say it, then the argument that you are saying is always mixed up in the end, why all the sports facilities, because the events are rare in them, and there are few viewers in them, but they do not add that they represent the basic position that sport is not part of human culture. We believe that it is part of human culture, and therefore the assessment of the stadium in this sense, on the basis of principle, the Opera House or the National Gallery, or I could still say a number of things, can be judged on the basis of that. [[19.10]] If you think it's unnecessary, it's a valid position, and by the way, there must be a country where there's no opera house, but there's a weight-loss dress fair, but there's a way to live. However, we believe that we want to start developing sports facilities in our own way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-152	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2018-11-13-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I tried really hard to listen to Lajos Kósa, but we're talking about one of the leading politicians of Fidesz. [[Lajos Kósa: Thank you very much.]] I tried to follow you, but I didn't really know, so I didn't understand, Congressman, that you're talking about sports all the time... [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] He keeps talking about sports, and he says that Bernabeu Stadium shouldn't be broken down by Catalans. Congressman, that Camp Nou, that Barcelona, that Bernabeu, that Real Madrid [[Lajos Kósa: He's right!]] once. Then we learned from you that Santa Monica is the new Little Castle. Well, I'm very glad that this development has taken place in Kisvárda, that you are now linking the tennis academy in Kisvárda to investments in Santa Monica. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] The problem, Congressman, is that when you started building it, [[Lajos Kósa: Santa Monica is a small town, by the way!]] These stadiums and these facilities, and we have been discussing these visual investments here in Parliament, and the Jobbik faction has drawn your attention to the fact that you might need to make more careful investment, because, by the way, if you are referring abroad, you know, a new sports facility is planned abroad that 30 percent is about construction and planning costs, and 70 percent is then operation, but you have not dealt with the issue of operation. At the time, you said that there would be no problems here, that there would be a lot of stadiums, and there would be revenue and additional events and everything else, but then you would have to face the fact that in Hungary this is a profession, because the operation of sports facilities is not very good at it, and because no one is very good at it, this is why there could be such a problem that they brought up a stadium to Szombathely, which was almost impossible for athletes to own because it wasn't an operator, they were looking for the money to run this stadium for a long time. Then don't tell me, Congressman, that the construction of sports facilities, let's say, fits a sports hall for 25 billion forints, you know, which Viktor Orbán denied because he said, "Oh, no, the government hasn't decided yet." Of course, I think that the local government in Székesfehérvár is so stupid that it doesn't agree with the government, without the government knowing, it will put up a public tender for a 25 billion HUF, 25 000 million HUF sports hall construction, which will also be won by István Garancsi's company, and the government will not know about it, and will certainly not allow it! Do you know what it means to build a sports hall for 25 billion forints? From 3 to 3.5 billion, we could build about a sports hall, buy a super sports hall, and still cost twice or three times. 25 billion forints? It cost 22, the Üllő Road Stadium, the full Üllő Road Stadium 22, and that's 25 billion? Is this facility going to be able to be maintained? Will the operation of this be adequate? Well, here's the problem. When we called your attention to this, you told them not to sit down, we'll know. And then they couldn't. Then we're going to have to replace them from the Tao, which is public money, so let's not forget, because they tend to forget that Tao is the money of all of us, which is not paid by different companies. Then, right, you said how different the academic system is, because there were no such things in Hungary. Well, I think you remember boarding school. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] It was the same thing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: KSI too!]] It's a boarding school, it's nothing different. We had those institutional frameworks, but you're trying to call them academics now. The other is how successful the academic system is: give me an example of [[Lajos Kósa is coordinating with Dr. Fairy Szabó.]] I'm sure you can, if you'll be watching which of the academy in Hungary has been able to take most of the Tao support over the last few years! I'll help you. It was the academy on the upstairs. And do you tell me how many young people now play on the adult team from this high school academy, how many young people could this academy raise with this very important educational method? [[Dr. László György Lukács: Zero!]] Zero, that's right, zero. They're confirming players and the like. Then I'm sure this academic system works very well and is appropriate. And then... I don't even want to go deeper into these questions here, because, I'm gonna say it again, I feel like you're here saying really big things and really good things, and then you mixed up all kinds of stuff you shouldn't have, but you said one important thing. If sport is so important to you, and we would have supported it, if you'd spent so much money on sports, so much money on sports facilities, academys and everything, then why don't you just tell me why you only run sports on a one-secretary level? Why don't you give sports the rank to deal with sports at ministerial level? Why do you have to put such a large and important subject under the EMMI, at the level of the State Secretary? We would be in favour of being an independent Minister of Sport, not a Secretary of State, but a Minister, for example. [[Németh Szilárd István: Naaa!]] And don't tell me a lot of things on the part of the EMMI. [[To István Szilárd Németh:]] What, you don't like that, Congressman? [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] No, I'm just asking, because you're so grumpy, but you're the president of another alliance, a professional sports association, the president of the Wrestling Alliance, and I don't even understand these reactions. I would support her becoming a secretary. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Well, you're not supposed to be, but whatever, let's just leave it at that. Now, let's talk about what I wanted to say then: there is a completely unnecessary part of this proposal that I do not understand why it had to be entered at all. This amending proposal seeks to incorporate the concept of contributor into the law. The contributor, right, is a person who still exists today, his job is to help the organizer of the sporting event, and the proposed amendment describes how this person can be employed by the organizer of the event in a variety of legal relationships, whether voluntarily or for payment, but he does not say that this person should meet any specific qualification or competence conditions. Nor is the amending proposal that this particular contributor has some special responsibility for the conduct of the sporting event. The question arises: if the person involved already exists today, he is still involved in some kind of legal relationship or even as a volunteer helper, or there is no special competence or responsibility requirement for these persons today, then why should this be included in the sports law. This amending proposal is a repeated unnecessary legislative act, which, unfortunately, is typical of the current practice, which is almost compulsively trying to fatten red tape and the number of rules. The amending proposal does not contain any new information, contains no new elements or sets out any new rules that do not yet exist, so in my opinion it is completely unnecessary, which is why I do not understand why it is included here. I'd like to talk to you about two more important things, and I'd like to ask you. Article 32 In the case of Section 2, when it is said that the criteria for directors are to be set up and that it is said that, at least once every five years, a director prepared for the provision of sporting events in the framework of professional training must be appointed, and here I am concerned that the professional training from one year to this year has been one year, from one year to five years, and so far they have had to attend an annual training course, this is quite every five years. There is so much they are allowed to do that this cannot be alleviated in my opinion, especially when they know that it is in the sports law, if the police are not present at the sporting event, the organizer can decide on the retention independently, so we are talking about organisations with serious powers, which must now do whatever they want to do every five years. Then there's another important part, 42. §, here, in relation to the various Olympic events, the events are listed, and I do not understand why the Beach World Games are specifically highlighted. It is expected that the number of multisport games will increase in the future, such as Witch Games, not to mention, if Witch Games had been included here, Urban Games would have had to be included in my opinion, to which Balázs Fürjes and Budapest have already signed up. So we have also tabled an amendment to this, and I will ask the Secretary of State to consider this as well. [[19.20]] In conclusion, it can therefore be concluded that, in addition to the amendments to the technical nature of the bill before us and to the harmonisation of international obligations, it is unconventional, confusing and, in some places, unnecessary. The current law does not address the problems of practice, it does not solve the phenomena that negatively affect sport, such as opaque funding, reduced social interest, children's and young people's turn away from sport, it does not want to solve them, and it even ignores them completely. Once again, the bill before us is a good example of the current government ignoring real social and community needs, only serving its own self-interest. To do so, it seeks to use legislation as a tool, unfortunately used as a tool. I think that sport should not only be supported financially, but should receive much more attention, much more professionalism. And let there be no misunderstanding here, I did not mean the secretary of state, but the environment that surrounds, say, the secretary of state, and in which the question is how much she can enforce her own will. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-154	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK.
u2018-11-13-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's just two or three short notes. If Lajos Kósa thinks that only Fidesz knows that sport and culture are integral, I would like to say a few things about what costs are going on here. The new Bernabeu Stadium, if we break it down on chairs, will cost less than the new Gunner Stadium. But obviously the Spanish don't know how to design, or they don't have István Garancsi and his surroundings design the stadiums. I would like to point out that Hungarian stadium construction may seem to be a part of culture, it may be part of sport, in fact it serves the richness of fidesz business circles, it serves no other purpose. When these stadiums were designed, you knew exactly that there wouldn't be as many viewers as they had planned, as many chairs in them. The truth is, certain circles here have made a lot of money and a lot of billions. This has nothing to do with culture, and the reason I did not understand the words of my fellow Member Kósa is because we really need an opera house, but nobody in their senses can think that just because the current Prime Minister is from a village of 1800 people, there must be a stadium of 3500. The insane thing, let's be certain. It's not normal. The last time a Romanian dictator who died in 89 in unnatural circumstances, he built a 30,000 stadium in his village, and now it has grown into weeds and everything, because time has decided his fate as well. The other, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State, for one thing, that there is such a proposal so that the portrait of athletes can be used for some promotion. I would be particularly careful in this matter after Aaron Szilágyi's case. After all, we are talking about a two-time Olympic champion swordsman, who was wrongly sewed at the clothing shop of Viktor Orbán's favourite gas mechanic, and that did not make him very happy, because his personal sponsors were offended by it. So in this case, I think that particular caution will be indicated. Thank you.
u2018-11-13-156	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Tünde Szabó, State Secretary, if you wish to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2018-11-13-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The comments also show that we are on a very, very interesting and interesting topic in the field of sport. I believe that sport has been called and treated as a strategic sector by the government. It has also led to this great interest that, yes, the government is very much in favour of sport, not by accident, and it is enough to think of recent sporting events, Hungarian successes. Everyone is forged by such a success, whichever sport we think of, and the victory, it can be said to be a common denominator, and we could say that it creates a national unity. What else could we do, then, than take advantage of this resource and put it even more into the building and service of society. I would also like to suggest that we not only be there together with our sports successes, but also work together on the temporary work and the road to it, and try to move together and side by side. After all, anyone who recognizes how much potential there is in sport is a step advantage over everyone, and I stress that the Hungarian government has recognised this and we want to continue the work that has been started. Let me also point out, in the year of families, the fact that we also want to strengthen so-called families and their sports opportunities in the future of the nation by means of sports grants. We believe and undertake that every forint that we spend and invest on sport is for the future of the nation, for the future, for the health of our children, for the physical and spiritual development of our children. I also think it is important to emphasise that the outstanding results, at the same time, also focus the attention of ordinary people on sport. They support the promotion of regular physical activity, increase the active use of leisure for those who want sport, and here I also stress that the promotion of recreational port is particularly important, so it is also our fundamental goal to strengthen this. In 2010, we had a fundamental objective of growing up healthy generations with healthy physique and spirituality. To this end, three main goals were set at the time, first of all, so that all children could play sports. The other is to build sports facilities, to allow our children, our young people, to play sports under cultural and dignified conditions, including older people; and thirdly, to host as many sporting events as possible. Bring fans to our country, bring famous athletes here, and our best, role models can show themselves to a Hungarian audience. I believe that significant progress has been made in all three areas in the last two government cycles, which work continues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your comments. On the question of Mr Szilágyi: I reassure you that there will be no amendment to the sport law this year, so he asked. So I'm sure we don't intend to. To address the amendment of the Sports Act, we have set, to an absolute extent, sports-professional goals, and the amendments are aimed at this. The amendments, which aim at this, we will look forward to, look at them, look at them, and we will make the proposals so to speak, to be adopted. So I would also like to ask you to support the bill; and thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-158	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain cultural laws until closure. The government referral is T/3372. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Fekete, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[19.30]]
u2018-11-13-159	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The T/3372. CCXLII of 2013 on the renewal and development of the City Park. Act No CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Act CIX of 2011 on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Law and the 1995 LVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. contains an amendment to the Act. CCXLII 2013 on the renewal and development of the City Park. Law No. 1 According to Section 1 (1) of the Act, the so-called City Park real estate with the location number Budapest 29732/1 is owned for 99 years by Városliget Zrt., which is 100% owned by the State. it's costing you a fortune. In the real estate area of the City Park, the project "Liget Budapest" is the largest investment in urban development with cultural content in Europe. It not only renews the Park of Városliget, which is important from a tourist point of view, but also creates a wide range of accessibility. Városliget Zrt., the architect of the project, appointed by law, will be built within the framework of the project, the Ethnographic Museum, the new National Gallery, the House of Hungarian Innovation, the House of Hungarian Music and the Városligeti Theatre, as well as the renovation of the former Olof Palme House, known as the Millennium House. Thanks to the project, however, not only new buildings will be built and existing ones will be renewed, but the Park of City Park will also be completely reborn, the amount of green spaces will be increased, and the permanent water surface of Lake Városligeti will rise to a new level as well. To sum up, the project "Liget Budapest" combines the largest scale of park and landscape architecture in the history of the country with an institutional development program that has not been seen since the Millennium Times. The bill provides Városliget Zrt. in order to effectively carry out investment and asset management tasks in the City Park. long-term placement by assigning Városliget Zrt. as a trustee in respect of state-owned real estate providing the seat of the trustee of the City Park real estate. In view of the maintenance of the 99-year trust right, it is appropriate to place the trustee in own property owned by the State. The Liget operation centre originally planned in the framework of the Liget Budapest, would have been located in the real estate area of Városliget, providing a new building for the asset management of Városliget Zrt. the location of the patient. However, following the principles of responsible management, the Ministry of Human Resources exercising ownership rights rejected the project in consultation with the company's board of directors, as the long-term placement of the company in an existing state property in the district of Városliget is significantly cheaper. This construction increases the green surface of Városliget and provides a cost-effective solution to the placement of the trustee, as instead of building a new building, only the renovation of the existing property is required. The cost of life is lower than planned. This property is located in 57-59 Hermina Road, in the vicinity of the City Park, so it is suitable for the proper accommodation of the trustee's apparatus and assets. Because Városliget Zrt. currently leases real estate on a market basis, in view of this, the new more economical placement will release an operating source that will reduce the company's budget support needs. The current trustee of the property on Hermina Avenue is Petőfi Literature Museum. This is a budgetary institution maintained by the Ministry of Human Resources. Over the last year, the institutions concerned have conducted extensive consultations to prepare asset management under the guidance and coordination of the EMMI. The development of the project "Liget Budapest" as well as the gradual increase in operating tasks support the use of the property on Hermina út. Under the City Park Act, the trustee of the Fortress Csillag of Komárom is Városliget Zrt. for 99 years by the power of the law. The bill provides that Városliget Zrt. for real estate No. 802 and Komárom 803. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The reason for this is that the renewal of the Fortress of Stars will be completed within the framework of the project, the professional programme of which will be laid down by a government decision. The Csillag Fortress in Komárom is the artistic, historical and military center of the Fortress of Stars, which presents the former collection of plaster from antiquities to Renaissance, which is a visitor-friendly, which can be used in education. The Csillag Fortress will be handed over in 2019 after the current reconstruction works, in which a high-quality exhibition of the antique, medieval and Renaissance plaster copy collection of the Museum of Fine Arts will be opened. Városliget Zrt. As the current trustee of Starfort, he is obliged to operate the fort in a cost-effective manner and in accordance with the legal requirements. In order to ensure this, instead of setting up a separate local organization, it is appropriate that the operation is carried out by the Monostori Fortress Military Centre, the Monastery Restoration, Property Maintenance and Useful Nonprofit Ltd., a professionally prepared organization with considerable experience in the field of such functions, experienced in the monument protection of fortresses. Monostori Fortress Public Use Ltd. has all the professional skills, expertise, cultural relations, commitment and local knowledge necessary for the operation, maintenance of the Fortress Star, the preservation of the status and quality of the new investment, the organisation of highly visited programmes, professional presentations, conferences and the exploitation of the building. With the unified operation, under the supervision of the Hungarian State and the local government, after the renovation of Csillag Fortress, the three forts of the Komárom Fortress system on the Hungarian side can be visited and turned into a historic and cultural monument complex with a high quality tourism service after its long, embarrassing fate. The proposal will ensure an effective and long-term resolution of the Fortress Star and the completion of the cultural mission. Because Városliget Zrt. CXCVI 2011 on national assets. Article 11 Paragraph 5 of the Act established by law, therefore the termination of the right of trust can be done only by legal provision. Accordingly, the bill provides for the abolition of the right of trust by including a repealing provision for the termination of the right of trust and by providing sufficient time for the implementation of the measures involving the abolition of the right of trust. It shall be submitted to Parliament with the full support and agreement of all the organisations concerned. Dear Parliament, The essence of cultural basic care, as the policy has demonstrated in recent years, is to ensure cultural access, but also to activate individuals and communities. The government's aim is to give the population of all settlements the opportunity to express what values, goals, development directions are important for them, to develop their community life and to formulate a common vision. Make sure there's a permanent location for them. Get some professional help. The main objective of the field of public education is, in particular, community building, which is one of the most effective means of creating as many creative and constructive roles as possible in the immediate community of their place of residence. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, registered library provision and public education. By amending Act No.2017, the policy objectives and basic public education services have been focused on the regulation of community culture, creating legal guarantees for the quality and differentiated acquisition of basic public education services, through community cultural institutions that are better suited to local needs and needs. [[19.40]] Following the entry into force of the amendment in 2018, the need to amend the law of a legal nature arose and the draft proposed technical specifications for public education. It clarifies the qualification requirements for professionals employed in certain public education institutions by establishing that a certain percentage of the public education professionals employed must have a university degree in vocational education and training, in the case of institutions with strategic focus on the field, cultural centre-type public education institutions, and in the case of an organisation providing national public education professional services. It clarifies the Minister's powers to deliver opinions on the restructuring and termination of public education institutions, and makes it clear that the opinion is also mandatory for public education institutions operating under the public education agreement. LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. In the light of the fact that the change of the name of the VERITAS Institute for History Research to the Institute for History Research and Archives better covers the activities of the Institute. The 2011 CIX on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Law 6 proposes a technical amendment in the light of the fact that the existing law does not continue to be numbered. Dear House, I ask the Honourable Parliament that, in the light of what has been said, T/3372. To discuss and support the Government's efforts to amend legislation on the subject of culture. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Peter Hoppál, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-13-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard in the last few minutes, allow me to deviate a little from the House's protocol, we have heard in Mr.Péter Fekete's virgin speech, whom we have welcomed in this capacity before the Hungarian Parliament, we have heard the Government's proposal, which intends to amend four laws in this legislative package. The last two of these can actually be regarded as merely a need for drafting and technical amendments, but the first two laws are not accidentally touched by the wallet. The government's intention to build on the cultural policy of recent years can be perceived from these amendments. Since the Liget Budapest project has a very important law around Parliament, we can rightly say that the legal weight of the regulations in this area is such that it is worthy of this unique cultural large investment in Europe as well. This huge project, which completely renews the heart of Budapest, will increase the green surface of Városliget, as well as the original proposal, this current legislative amendment shows how, with smart thinking, the urban need to increase the green surface is the right direction to strengthen it even further. The government has found a way of not building a building to be built in Városliget, they have found the property on Hermina út, which is Hungarian state property, and the right to trustee is simply to Városliget Zrt., if the government hands it over, then Városliget Zrt. Its 99-year exercise of trust rights as a location of a hardware operator is indeed possible in the building currently in PIM's asset management, which is bordering on the location number of the entire City Park. With regard to the content of this urban grove amendment, let me draw attention to the fact that, in the view of the government, it is quite right for such a large-scale government investment, which is the vast urban development and cultural and infrastructure development programme that has not been seen since the Millennium period, there is also the cultural decentralisation approach. It is well understood that a large metropolitan program also has a rural leg, because, as we have heard from the Secretary of State of Komárom, the Fortress of Stars in Komárom is now moving forward in time... seeing how the renovation will be completed, how it will be integrated with other institutions in Komárom, which are already in operation, and how a trust unit can be established there through an existing nonprofit Ltd. This is a technical amendment, but in view of the fact that the large investment, first renovated in the City Park project, which was handed over and reopened by the Prime Minister last week by the Prime Minister last week, was the renewal of the Museum of Fine Arts, within which the Romanian Csarns received a hit in World War II were fully renovated, yes, the cast copies, which were almost never made available to the public in a rural exhibition space that would become accessible to the public. This is the gesture on which it can be seen that even in the case of such a large investment, the government's thinking promotes cultural decentralisation, it also thinks with the head and eyes of the countryside. I think that this is a very useful and correct government commitment. Which is the so-called cultural law, i.e. the 1997 CXL. With regard to the amendment of the law, Mr Secretary of State has also described the points at which it is important that the legislation, which has already been put in place, should be further refined. Here I am very pleased that special emphasis has been placed on the usefulness of cultural basic care in the expoze, which is a social programme, a social undertaking of the Hungarian cultural institution system. Understandably, if legislation and government intent have reached the institutions, who really want to bring the valuable culture to the broadest circles of society, trusting that we will raise those layers that may not have had access to this culture so far, if we believe that we can also strengthen a national identity by making the instrument of culture truly accessible to the unconventional cultural audience, then the government will implement a cultural accessibility programme. In this policy, there has been unbroken progress in the last 8-8,5 years of civilian governance, and we can say that, yes, this is also very important and to be supported, in fact, a technical need for change. [[19.50]] In summary, I can say that the intentions of government cultural policy are certainly worthy of support, and indeed cultural policy does not seem to think that there are negligible areas of the country, there are social segments and groups that traditionally do not come into contact with culture, or there are cultural products and consumption groups that can be divided on the right and on the left. It is very right that the cultural government does not think this way, but pursues a cultural policy that brings value to everyone, serving all together. I think it's coming from the package of laws. I would like to ask with all due respect that our fellow Members in opposition benches also consider supporting, in part, the majority of the amendments of a legal nature and, in part, the legislative amendments to society as a whole. The Fidesz fraction will definitely do that. Thank you for the Secretary of State's work. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-13-162	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Szávay of Jobbik.
u2018-11-13-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Few remaining Members! As has been said, it is a salad law, in fact we are reaching out to four different laws, apparently only in respect of small things, on public documents, public archives, private archives, museum institutions, library care, and on the Academy of Arts and on the renewal and development of the City Park. At first glance, we learned less from this law than we could learn from the Secretary of State's exposé. In any case, we have a bit of an ambivalent attitude to this issue, and we would therefore like to have a few answers in order to find a way to resolve our final position. I mean, it's been a long time for a few things that we didn't necessarily look out of this law for the first time, but we didn't talk about one or two things that we're curious about. If I may, I would like to take a line on these four questions, in these four areas, perhaps a little bit in terms of importance, or at least in terms of the importance of how deep we go into each law. First there is the case of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Here, if we understand correctly, we were talking about correcting a misnumbered paragraph, which, of course, is perfectly fine, although it is unpleasant that such a mistake could be included in a law in force. In the case of museum institutions, it is clear that substantial changes are already being made. We can fundamentally agree with this, and I would like to emphasise this. On the one hand, it also means that an institution operated under a public education agreement should be treated in the same way as public education institutions. Mr Secretary of State has explained this in detail. We don't have a problem with that. And what we can strongly support is the fact that you obviously need a master's degree to be a professional in public education. Actually, it's weird why this hasn't been necessary. And then there are the other two laws, where questions arise. One of them is the City Park case. This debate has been on the basis of professional, political and professional political arguments, which have been going on for years, which have slowly become war, at least for some. The bill is not specifically about development, so it is not worth discussing. However, two questions arise. I did not fully understand the sentence of the Secretary of State in the expozee that if this bill was adopted, then why it would increase the green area in the City Park compared to the previous one. Unless it's because you don't have to build another building there. That's what I'm talking about, isn't it? [[Black Peter: Yes.]] Well, that's a bit of an interesting and specific argument, but it's okay, so let's just accept it now. However, it is not quite clear to us that, looking into Városliget Zrt. for a little while, because the reason why the Secretary of State did not explain this is a gross 2,100 sq m office building of 1321 sq m, if I found good data on this. Are you sure this is necessary? That comes up as a question. On the other hand, I would be more interested in that, because you are not particularly a believer in social dialogue, and even if you can take something from someone by government decision and pass it on to someone else, then the opinion of the opposing party has not shown up very often in the last eight years if we have encountered such a case. We didn't find a single sentence in the Secretary of State's exposé about the fact that it didn't appear in the bill, nor in the justification, but it was worth mentioning in the expoze what the Petőfi Literature Museum would say about this building being taken from them. The reason for this proposal is that the property manager is the Petőfi Literary Museum, but the property is not primarily for the purposes of the Petőfi Literary Museum. Mr Secretary of State, let me ask you for a little more information on what the PIM has used this building for so far and for what purpose. Are you sure they don't mind falling down? And I'm even more interested in whether you've even asked your opinion on how you feel about this taking. In this regard, the Fortress of Stars, the Fortress of Monostor, we find the government's intention to be correct in terms of both renovation and visitability. What's most interesting here is Veritas. This was done very quickly, saying that it was merely a change of name, a change of name. My first question, Mr. Secretary, is whether that's true. Are you sure this is just a little change of name? Just because it is proposed that only what happens is that instead of the Archives of the Veritas Institute of History, there is Veritas Institute of History and Archives. I don't really feel the same way about those two words. The otherwise rather suspicious, at least for us, is that, among other things, HVG has been writing a few weeks about the fact that the Ministry of Human Rights is about to submit a proposal to Parliament that would assign to Veritas the government documents that were born after 1990. I expect a very clear answer, Mr. Secretary: is that what this is about or isn't? Is the Ministry planning this or not planning it? This, by the way, was caused by a rather high level of professional indignation. On behalf of HVG, István Kenyeres, President of the Archives Association, and the Director-General of the Budapest Capital Archives, said that the profession, in particular the Council of Hungarian Archives Leaders, dealt with this issue at its meeting, and that idea, as he said, they are not even willing to argue, is not worth arguing about, because the profession considers this to be such a level of professional nonsense. Of course, I think so myself. Subsequently, the EMMI submitted this proposal, which does not appear to be the case. Did it happen that, because of your professional uproar, you abandoned this intention and ultimately just dipped in this proposal, or did you just submit a mild version? In particular, I would like to ask again whether there is a future plan, Mr Secretary of State, to assign to Veritas the government documents that were born after 1990. That's one of the questions. The other question is whether it is planned to limit the searchability of these documents in any way. Once again, this is not the case, but I know you perfectly well. Not you, Secretary of State, but the system you now name as an artist, I know very well, and the methods of this regime I know very well, and it is no stranger to this regime to restrict the public at all, it is not at all foreign to resort to methods that come out of this article, even though professional organisations are objecting to any profession. So, the problem is that the Fidesz party state-building logic that has been going on in Hungary for years would fit perfectly with the concept that you are handing these materials over not to the profession, but to the research facility close to you, and then restricting their research for political reasons in a different way. If that is not the case, I would be happy to follow anyone on this, but I would like a very clear answer to that, Mr Secretary, an answer that we will be able to ask you later. Is this the case or is this not the case, is it really the proposal that we have only made one clarification on behalf of the Institute? [[20.00]] To sum up, what I have said has shown me that we do not have any particular reservations about the law, if the objectives of it are indeed the same as that which we have heard in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, and if these questions that I have asked you, whether it is the Petőfi Literature Museum and, most of all, the government plans and objectives relating to the Veritas Institute, after having been answered by you, we can then form the position of our faction, once again, on a proposal that we can support in principle, its purpose is truly what is described here, and what was said in Mr. State Secretary's exposé. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-13-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! As far as the state is concerned, it doesn't matter whether the preservation of culture or the creation of a work in a stone theatre or on YouTube, which is really the responsibility of the state at any time, regardless of colour, it is that everyone in a village in southern Baranya has a chance to access everything, as in Budapest, let's say, the XII. in the district. The proposal before us is therefore a good opportunity to look at how the Fidesz-KDNP government is doing in this work and to think about where it wants to go. First of all, in the proposal before us, the operation of the Veritas Institute. In 2016 the head of the Veritas Institute Sándor Székely... [[Intruders: Bake! Dr. Peter Hoppál: They spelled it wrong.]] Beak. No, I've got a beard written here, and I've got a bad eye, and I'm getting ready for an ophthalmologist. In return, therefore, Sándor Szakály does not draw what I will say from this, he said in the interview that the specifically anti-Jewish legislation restricting participation and work in higher education known as numerus clausus was not an abuse of rights. This was stated by Szakály two years after in 2014 a 1941 deportation, which led to the slaughter and execution of Hungarian people in the order of tens of thousands, called it a purely alien police procedure. Today, in 2018, this historian still manages a state institution, as if nothing had happened, and the government is leading Veritas' name change through domestic legislation. The fact that the government is doing nothing about Mr Szakály's work and that the institution is entrusted with more and more tasks can mean two things to me: either you are not interested in being consistently represented for years by an anti-Semite person or you agree with what has been said. And since you and the members of your government, the Prime Minister himself, consider Horthy to be his ideal predecessor, I believe that the latter, which Mr Szakály has said, you agree, which is rather sad. Furthermore, I would also like to know what my good-looking fellow Member has put forward as to whether the government documents post-90 will indeed be assigned to this archives. These questions have also been raised in our mind as to whether they will be forgiven and forgery. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You guys fake, not us!]] I really hope they don't get this far. Let's keep moving. Although the change affecting the Hungarian Academy of Arts is technically only this time, it is worth noting for the sake of the minutes that a day would not be enough to describe in detail the history of previous troubled cases, real estate transfers and billionaires' costs around the Academy. If we keep moving, we'll get to Városliget Zrt. The amendment concerning Városliget Zrt. also seems technical with the transfer of a property management right, but I would also like to say that behind it a new chapter in the struggle of power and ideology within Fidesen is mentioned, as it is difficult to see the transfer of laws from Petőfi Literature Museum to Városliget Zrt. as one of the next steps of government warfare against a minimally standard-following workshop, if any open to conflicting opinions. Unfortunately, in the eyes of many, the Liget project has become a mere megalomania in Budapest, which no one has asked for here, while destroying the important natural value of the city, and also one of the city's lungs, while we have also said a lot in previous debates that this project in other areas of Budapest, in a more dim area, if I may say so, could have been built in the same way, and we would not have to cut down trees to do so. Finally, hidden in the legislation, the Minister, in this case Miklós Kásler, receives even more rights of governance and intervention in the lives of Hungarian public education institutions. An analogy is worth thinking about, nationalising education. Mr. Kásler, just look at the world of domestic education that also belongs to it and see what centralization is good for. The six-year history of the KLIK is a serious, 1,000-bleeding, doomed structure, where the question is no longer whether it will end, but only when. Now they're trying to push the same thing through public education, and unfortunately, the result will be no different here. Overall, we cannot support these amendments for the reasons stated above. As a sad stage in domestic cultural life, this period of history will be interesting later, but to experience it here today is very disappointing, unfortunately for many people in the country it is almost unbearable. Thank you.
u2018-11-13-166	Good evening, everyone. We will continue to hear the views of the speakers who have been notified. There's one congressman who signed up for this. I say this only because of your planning, that there are still two laws on defence, a number of speeches after the agenda, which, of course, according to the house rules, should not restrict anyone, but information in the planning of the evening is an essential aspect. [[Defiance.]] Thus, in the possession of this information, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, is to be heard. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know why the senior president just remembered the nearly two-hour delay of today...
u2018-11-13-168	Because right now, the president came up to the pulpit, and he couldn't tell me before he wasn't here.
u2018-11-13-169	...but, of course, culture is such an important topic that I would like to talk about, but I try to limit myself on this subject as well. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to make a few comments, and I would like to focus on a general cultural subject rather than on the law. It is so rare to talk about culture in the National Assembly, on the one hand, because culture is practically not the owner of the Ministry level. We know from Zoltán Balog that this Ministry of Human Affairs is not a good construction, and he himself admitted it after he left the wallet. I think that this fragmented ministerial structure with many State Secretarys does not really help to win the worthy role of either the previous topic, sport or even culture in the governance structure, where I think it should be. Let's start with City Park. Of course, I understand that Városliget has become the site of a huge cultural investment. The other day I participated in the opening of the Museum of Fine Arts, and I saw that beautiful work was done there by all those who participated in it, either by the employees of the museum or by those who thus saved and renovated this built heritage for posterity, so I think they should be thanked for it. At the same time, I would like to point out that the cost of this investment is now skyrocketing, and 250 billion forints was the last number I read about it. We didn't talk about half of this before, the first numbers, as far as I remember, were 50 billion. [[20.10]] Then new and new investments appeared, to see what else would be in the City Park. Therefore, I think it would be worthwhile to look at what the budget can take and see if all the investments that have been planned there are really necessary. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are, of course, in solidarity with all those who are concerned about the green surface there. Városliget is in many respects one of Budapest's lungs, and therefore the green heritage given by nature and not built from concrete and marble should also be taken care of. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we need to keep an extremely strict account of the fact that the appropriate trees and the amount of wood are planted in the City Park, because the city simply needs to breathe, not just to visit museums. Another topic is the story of Veritas. My speech here is more than worrying. I think that Veritas is simply an organization created to forge history, I think. This is not only because they are carrying out the relativisation of the Holocaust, which in itself is outrageous, but also because it is very worrying if they want to give up the government documents after the. I think the State Security Services Historical Office might have more appropriate archival conditions and a network of historians. You simply have no confidence in Mr. Beak. We can totally imagine anything about him. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Worse than that.]] What you're looking at or what you're transferring from government papers to research, what you're picking, what you're simply not going to let posterity know about what happened in the years, decades after the change of regime, and especially because the Orbán government has already announced that no record of the meetings of the Orbán government will be made. It is therefore very interesting to say that the governments that have behaved fairly, and from the Antall government to the Bajnai government, the various records and summaries of government meetings have been carried out, the Orbán government is simply excluding itself from such ex post social control and control. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State, and this is also not part of the law or the amendment of the law that has been mentioned to do everything to ensure that the cultural tao does not perish. It is quite simply the case that private theatres may disappear, valuable cultural workshops may crumble because you have executed the cultural Tao system in practically a few weeks. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State in this case that there was an intention, at least in the newspapers I read, that this money, which was the cultural Tao, I understand, I'm taking it off whether or not it was stolen, because it was stolen from sportsao, like madmen, and it wasn't abolished, but if we take it off and cultural tao in some way, it is, at least, if not in Tao's form, but it stays around the government, how and in what way will it be distributed? I understand it's about a 35 billion-dollar item, it's not a small amount, it's a lot of artists, it's a work of art, it's supposed to make a living and a day's work. If we are proud of our capital and its colorful cultural life, then it would be unfortunate for this to be a process of decay. So who's gonna decide about this money? Will there be a committee for this? Who will be members of this, or how can they guarantee that these alternative workshops or private theatres will not be lost in Budapest or in the country? Last but not least, let me mention that, unfortunately, a strong cultural battle started in the Fidesz-close newspapers, and this is not remotely related to the speech of Viktor Orbán's summer knits, where they simply describe the greatest Hungarian culture in an outrageous style and tone from Endra to Péter Esterházy. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, if he has the authority to do so... I understand that journalistic independence and freedom of the press are supposed to be, but there is no journalistic independence in Fidesz, there is what is being published in a pepper course. So I would like to ask you to try to stop this cultural camp, not to find out about Endra Ady, that she actually wanted to let migrants in, and that Péter Esterházy has no place in the Hungarian literary pantheon. Unfortunately, they were written to use such Germanism. So, it's a shame, it's a disgrace to the Democratic Coalition, and we consider it a desecration of national culture. So on this matter, I would ask you to use your influence, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-170	Thank you very much. There will now be two-minute speeches; first, István Szávay, Member of Parliament, notary of Parliament.
u2018-11-13-171	Thank you very much. I don't wish to be anyone's unwelcome protégé, the Veritas History Institute is obviously a government-wide science workshop. It's still a science workshop. Obviously, the government documents do not belong here, but let us not go over the other side of the horse, my fellow left-wing Members, that we are talking about counterfeiting of history here. There may be conclusions based on historical research that may not necessarily be appropriate for Marxist historical traditions. It is also a pity that my fellow Member, Kunhalmi, has gone out, who is talking about history forgery, anyway, I suggest that he should take a look around his own house for the first time from here. As long as the leading politician of the Socialist Party can remain the Havas Sofia, who denies the '56 revolution, who denies the violent communist takeover, who does not vote for the creation of the monument of Péter Mansfeld, who talks about the revolutionaries of 56 as fascists and Nazis, and as long as it is perfectly apparent that the multiplely renewed MSZP can't, by the way, get rid of this Bolshevik past to this day, at least stop the MSZP MEPs from talking about counterfeiting of history when, in any case, the director of a scientific research workshop can come to a different conclusion than that of Marxist history. Mr Secretary, the other: I would like to ask you, as we have learned, that this was your sermon, and let me draw your attention to the following. There are now two ways to deal with this debate. One of them is that he's listening to us right now, and then when we can't respond, he's gonna say something. I do not know you, but I assume that you are more elegant and significantly more elegant than most of the members of the government are in such a situation, so let me ask Mr Secretary of State with respect that there really is a meaningful dialogue here, and we will be able to make it easier to decide on the support of this law, so that you will be kind and not in the closing words, but that you will now be involved in the debate. Please answer the relevant questions that have now been raised so that we can respond, if appropriate. I think this will make things a lot easier for us. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And we can learn from the fact that you actually have a desire to engage in dialogue on these issues. So I'm gonna need you to turn on now. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-172	Congressman Peter Hoppál, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2018-11-13-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have listened to the statements of opposition representatives here, I have the impression that, indeed, the State Secretary, who is sufficiently coherent to Parliament and which is completely in line with the government's cultural policy and presenting a relevant package of laws, is suddenly being flooded with questions that are not relevant. The fact that journalists' articles of opinion should in any way be considered or dissociated by a secretary of state, well, I'm sorry, how does that relate to the legal issue that is contained in this package of laws? ! That you have a grudge against the Veritas History Institute, and if you declare that, it's a stand, and you can argue with that. But the fact that, by the way, scientists who have obtained a scientific degree in the laws in force or about a director who are not here and cannot defend themselves, this, I'm sorry, lacks all manner of gentlemanly elegance when I'm not even saying it's a repulsive manifestation. And specifically, in the case of cultural tao in cultural tao, do you understand? ! They're pointing revolvers at the Secretary of State to see what the government wants to do, not the subject of the motion. It's not in there, there's not a single word about it. So I don't understand why you guys have to bring something like this here. And that, since one side has already responded to the fact that there have been very charming left-wing manifestations of history counterfeiting, I believe that you have it on this issue. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.20]]
u2018-11-13-174	Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP!
u2018-11-13-175	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to do everything I can, and for that, I'm going to speak to him in two minutes to respond to the leading presidential warnings he gave me earlier. I would like to start by saying that, as Hungary's Green Party, we are opposed to the City Park project because we think that it is outrageous that 0.3 square meters of green space is available for, for example, a population in Estonia, and yes, when this was established and Mr Baán, who holds several state posts, should have taken this into account and that the City Park is one of the very few green areas. Plus, the lie you're saying is that the green surface is going to grow is not true. [[Lajos Kósa: It will grow!]] That's not true. They're playing with the definition of green surface. The fact is that the woody parts that have existed for a long time will be replaced with parts where two centimeters of lawn bricks are placed on the concrete, and this is called the green surface as well as the old woody parts that are in the City Park. That's one of the things I wanted to tell you. What I want to reflect on Congressman Hoppál is that the fact that various publicists whose names I will not say in this Chamber, because they do not deserve what they say, belongs only to us because we do not provide these cards, but to you on tax-paying money. So from this point of view, it is relevant what these people write about Endra Ady, what these people write about people in Hungarian culture with performances that, by the way, deserve much more than they deserve to be thrown at their penna. I would also like to say that those people, and I am sorry that my fellow Member Csaba Hende is not sitting in the room right now, who, for example, humiliate rural theatre directors with the fact that they cannot march in the first row at a festival, can really contribute to a general debate about what cultural policy is like in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-176	Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK!
u2018-11-13-177	All I would like to add, and it won't be two minutes before I think that Parliament is for us to argue, no matter what the subject is. Mr Secretary of State is here, culture is hardly mentioned in Parliament, so I think as an elected Member, I have the right to ask you anything. And by the way, it's not Marxist history of how many victims the Holocaust had, or what the police had to do with it at the time, but the facts. Therefore, I think that it is not a question of relativity, and that if someone thinks that history needs to be rewritten, it is a heavy responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-13-178	I'd like to inform you that in a two-minute circle, a faction has only one voice. However, since there is no other speaker than Mr Hoppál, who re-presents his name on the screen, this is not a two-minute speech, but a normal one, which does not preclude him from speaking in two minutes. [[Defiance.]] So I'll give you the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-179	Thank you very much for the elegance of former Minister Hiller. My fellow Members, I would simply like to respond to Péter Ungár's point of view. Allow me to make a declaration from the government side, since we've called it here, we've dragged the issues of publicism here. We can count Endre Ady as a brilliant poet, but we can say that he is in Hungarian literature [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We will quote you next!]] the creator of the simultaneous poem, which can be interpreted as both a time and a rhythmic poem, can still be called a genius. I do not believe that in the debate that comes up in a series of publicists, we cannot stand against those who are otherwise of the same mind in the form of opinions. So that's why we live in democracy, that we have the right to express our opinions. But that doesn't mean we have to agree on everything. I am now declaring that I do not agree with the writings, the writings of writers with very good feathers, who say that Endre Ady is not a brilliant artist, because his political publications cast a shadow on his poetic work. I don't think that's true, and that's the wrong approach for Endre Ady. And what he said about City Park is your bad approach. So the factual issue here is that the green surface is expanding by several hectares. So today, in the '50s, he cemented a parade space, which was a political madness, and he wounded the original City Park, and now it's been opened and built by an Ethnographic Museum, and it's going to be completely greened. Thousands of trees are planted, and what you're saying is that instead of trees and groves, they're gonna replace it with grass bricks on concrete, that's not true! So the building of the former Petőfi Hall is built on the site of new buildings, the former international fair buildings and pavilions are built on the place of new buildings. So let's try to approach this question in a way that I think it will be much better for the city not to be counted as a patchy area full of apologizing dog piss, stained and no longer grassed, XXI. It is by no means a real park with a hundred-year-old eyes that we carry on our backs, but a fantastic, truly satisfying, beautiful new park will be handed over to the capitals. I think it will benefit everyone, and I hope that the representatives of the Green Party will see it when the project is over, that this is a real green programme, and that it will create fantastic new cultural institutions. I hope that we will achieve this consensus someday. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-180	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-181	There's gonna be trouble, Congressman Hoppál, there's gonna be trouble. [[Defiance.]] It's not customary for you to do that. So if the Hungarian Times describes what to think about Ady, then that's what you have to think about Ady. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's what I think.]] Another question is that the Hungarian Times can never describe anything by accident. So if we are talking about this once in this House, then let's just say this so that we don't act like it, and that's what stays in the record for the sake of historical memory, as if there were any fights within the Fidesen, and now there were some brave journalists, who now dared to write about how to change government culture policy. Don't make a whole country look like an idiot. Obviously, we are talking about issues that have been played and settled, and now we can run up and star some of the journalists who are now telling Fidesz through the Hungarian Times what should be thought of from now on in Hungarian cultural policy. So it's pretty clear you can't do that. In Hungarian Times, no government critical opinion can be written, not a half sentence, without approval in the Rogán Ministry. By the way, of course I agree with you, Congressman. Endre Ady can and should be separated from her poetry and her political work, where, for example, she talked about a wild gestian fool about István Tisza, which is quite far from my historical judgement on her, but this does not draw much from the poetry of Endre Ady. Returning to Veritas for one more sentence: so, Hungarian history has a lot of controversial events, it is typical that you are always stuck in the Holocaust and have a problem with that. Sándor Szakály has a very serious scientific work, but it is difficult to get rid of it, and others who work in this institute. I don't think it's fair to attack him because of one or two of his controversial statements. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's not the problem. The problem is that it is still a government-wide science workshop, and the place of government documents is not there, in our opinion. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-182	Anyone else? [[No signal. Lajos Kósa: Shall we?]] As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Péter Fekete if he wants to reflect. It says no. Dear Parliament, As the Secretary of State does not wish to reflect, I report that the amendments can be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. [[István Szávay: This is a great disappointment, Mr. Secretary of State. We thought he'd give us an opinion at least in the end.]] [[20.30]] Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of the new organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office will follow. The government referral is T/3291. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, Member, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Our defence law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures to be implemented in the special legal order was born in 2011, then in a completely different security policy environment. The change in the security and security situation of the crisis caused by mass immigration, starting in the Arab Spring after 2011, and increasing with the crisis in Ukraine, has required us, the Parliament and the Government to meet this security policy challenge with legislative amendments and legislation from 2015 onwards. With the mandate given after the elections, we can only think of amending the Fundamental Law, creating legislation on migration and border protection or imposing a crisis caused by mass immigration. These circumstances, the Zrínyi 2026, launched in January 2017, call for a comprehensive amendment of the Hungarian Defence Act, which serves the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The most important part of the proposal is the amendment of the Defence Act and the related legal status Act, in the light of the organisational separation of the Ministry of Defence, which is integrated with the Honvéd General Faculty. As a result of the organizational transformation, the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Department are organisationally separated. Following the amendment, the constitutional provision, i.e. the basic law, continues to apply that the Ministry of Defence exercises control over the Hungarian Defence Service in the spirit of civilian control. The aim of the proposal is also to regulate questions concerning the personnel of the defence forces, on the one hand, as a result of the amendment of this defence law and, on the other hand, in the light of the experience of the application of the law. Dear fellow Members, Allow me to present this proposal in more detail, but obviously focused on the point, as you have seen the amount of the bill. The purpose of the amendment to the major defence law can be summarised below. By creating the public-law framework necessary for the establishment of the new organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office, the military leadership of the Hungarian Defence Office, as I have already referred to, would be created from the Ministry of Defence as the top-level head of the Hungarian Defence Ministry, as an independent defence organization, while maintaining the constitutional civilian authority of the Ministry of Defence. The other major change: Napoleon indicated that 90% of war is information, and perhaps even higher in today's world. We can see what's happening around us in the world. In the context of the new type of armed conflict in Hungary's eastern neighbourhood after 2011, it is common to mention the hybrid or proxy war, the generally accepted, scientifically based definition of which is not yet available. But we experience this very well in everyday life. In view of this, the proposal also addresses the tasks related to the protection of cyberspace and the establishment of the necessary public-law framework for its implementation. Thirdly, the clarification of the rules governing the function, function and eligibility of military police has been justified on the basis of experience. Fourthly, it is in the interest of the nation itself to ensure that the tasks related to the non-color-scented paper programme of development are carried out in a legal manner. Fifthly, one of the basic orders of the Defence Act is to regulate a solution that can be dealt with in different crisis situations in a public-law sense. For international reasons, a crisis may arise which does not yet require the publication of a special legal order, but requires adequate response or crisis management. That's what I referred to earlier in the introduction. Therefore, this law introduces the so-called defence emergency, which, like the regulation of the crisis caused by mass immigration, seeks to provide the government with a more flexible mandate, which is peace-time, wider and adapted to new types of challenges, in order to prepare for crises and to increase the effectiveness of action against the escalation of the crisis, so that this does not involve restricting the fundamental rights of citizens. The aim of creating so-called public interest use is to effectively deploy forces and assets during crisis periods directly related to the armed protection of Hungary. Data processing for defence purposes is a broader concept than defence data processing, which has been prepared by the government for a longer period of time. The former is a data processing case in which non-military entities are required to process data in relation to their own or other defence obligations. Such processing is an essential condition for the effective preparation of defence tasks, the preparation of appropriate plans, which must be carried out even in peacetime. I would also like to take this opportunity to draw your attention once again, for many times, to the fundamental principle that defence is a national matter. In maintaining Hungary's defence capabilities, it builds primarily on its own strength, including the resources of its national economy, the Hungarian Defence Forces, the commitment and sacrifice of its citizens. All of this is important because it is not exactly the press and representatives who praise the government that confuse the discernment of thousands of Hungarian people when they are alarmed by the enlisting of 50-year-olds. This reflects either half-reading or lack of good intentions for the national cause. I would therefore like to draw everyone's attention here and now to the fact that our Fundamental Law will continue to allow, after two thirds of Parliament's decision, the so-called enlistment, which you have already threatened, only during a state of emergency or in a preventive position of defence, i.e. in the event of an external armed attack. Moreover, it should be pointed out that calling up to the age of 50 is neither a devil's idea nor a unique one in the world. In Europe, within the NATO bond, more people are thinking about how to solve the country's defence capabilities, and everyone, each country, is focusing on the soldiers, the people, because without them, this is not possible in the case of the highest technical development. In Hungary until 2004 this age limit was 50 years, looking back to human memory, until the entry into force of the Socialist Government's law, when soldiers were actually called up in peacetime, contrary to today's Fundamental Law. Let us put our hands on our hearts, look into each other's eyes, and say so to the voters [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, we're not watching.]] That we don't think a 40-42-year-old man is fit for military service. [[20.40]] Age, therefore, is not relevant in this generation, but the actual elements of the exemption from callability remain, for example, large families and their children alone cannot be called in even in the event of war. With today's demographic figures in Europe, it can be said with a calm heart that the generation of 40-50 is the most dominant generation, which cannot be ignored. Among our NATO allies, as I have already referred to, is the 49-50 year age limit, there is a state where it is 60 years, in Poland 60, in the Czech Republic, Denmark, Austria 50, Belgium, France and England 49 years, in Germany 45 years, but of course we could continue statistics from other parts of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, The greatest value is the soldier, the soldier. The modernization of the organization, the acquisition of more advanced military technology, if man is not behind it, the actual service and undertaker soldier. The government has therefore also carried out a review of the law on the status of soldiers, which also provides for the facilitation of their working and living conditions. The amendment to the Act on the Status of Patrons, which is also a major part, is linked to the following main issues without the need for completeness: making the rules on access to professional registration more flexible; creating the possibility for soldiers to be able to serve in the Ministry in the context of the separation of the Honvéd General Staff and the Ministry of Defence; amending the salary rules on foreign service performance; introducing a new external service benefit scheme; making part-service performance rules more favourable in the case of certain parental situations; encouraging voluntary reserve service with the extension of the protection service fee. In addition, there is also reason to amend additional laws, so I would still point out the following without the need for completeness. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on the Protection of Classified Data is to eliminate a deficiency resulting from the fact that Hungarian law does not recognise some of the operational classified information generated in connection with international operations as classified data. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys is to ensure consistency with the Defence Act in the light of the abovementioned organisational changes. The amendment of the electoral procedure law is justified in order to ensure that the voluntary reserve service does not automatically exclude the possibility of membership of the electoral committee when the reserve citizen is in a so-called availability period, i.e. he wishes to live a civilian life in the absence of a call for the greater part of the year. The amendment of the law on defence processing aims at supplementing the current framework provisions with detailed rules, which has become necessary in the light of experience in the application of the law. Dear Parliament, The government is determined to maintain a force that meets the challenges of the age, as well as its professional and technical requirements. Hungary needs dedicated, well-trained, and sound-hearted soldiers who, in the example of military heroes of the past, take the armed service and protection of the country, under their oath. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support the service of the country, the protection of the country, regardless of party affiliation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-185	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz faction discussed and formulated its position on the amendment of the law submitted by the government. It concerns several topics, I will not cover them all, I will try to draw attention to the few to which it is worth drawing attention, because I think there will be not much debate between us regarding the amendment of the electoral law, and there are some amendments to the law on the status of civil servants, which is more of a technical nature. What I think is very important about the proposal is that it has taken action on a number of issues that are, how should I put it? it has been a minor problem for a long time, but it was necessary to amend the laws not only to protect the lack of regulation, but also to protect the soldiers and those who deal with it. For example, the amendment of the law on the protection of classified information, because, quite simply, as the Secretary of State mentioned, Hungarian legislation does not recognise data as classified data, the nature of which, by the way, and the conditions under which it is generated are clearly classified data, is recognised by foreign legislation. We are involved in NATO and EU cooperation, where our soldiers handle such data, and by the way, adapting the rules of treatment to life also protects soldiers in terms of clear procedures and positions in which they should handle these data. So with these amendments, I think there will be no such significant debate. One of the most important parts of the proposal submitted is the amendment of the Hungarian Defence and Defence Act itself, which also affects the country's defence capabilities. In the most influential or essential part of this, I see that this integrated governance system and the integrated ministry that we are applying today are being abolished. I must admit honestly, I think this to be fully supported, and I have always been disturbed by a series of issues at the committee's last meeting, because of the integrated operation, it is true that when the Ministry was part of the Hungarian Defence Office, for example, in the case of military numbers, there was a constant debate, for example in the committee, that when the Ministry reports every year on the number of Hungarian Defence Forces, including classified information, it is indeed classified data; but the opposition representatives raised the total number of soldiers and the number of the Ministry in the chapter of the budget, there is data, public data, but because the Ministry or the number of co-institutions is also included in it, but it is not the number of the army or the Hungarian Defence Office. It's just an example. This integrated operation has caused a number of other problems, and by the fact that the Ministry will not be part of the Hungarian Defence Service, but operates separately from it, and by joining the Hungarian state administration, the Ministry of Defence operates as an administrative body, of course, creating specialities in this legislation that then the Hungarian Defence Command will no longer be burdened with questions that inevitably arise in the integrated ministry. There is one question here, but we will not be able to clarify it now, but it will certainly be when, in part, the Minister of Defence and, in part, the Hungarian Defence Command report to the committee, because the elimination of integration raises a number of questions that need to be considered, and in this sense, how should I put it? Here, thinking together can help a lot. I am thinking, for example, that not so long ago Parliament changed the number of Hungarian defences and the number of volunteers in its resolution proposal, but it is also clear that in the new organisational structure, the organisations that deal with, for example, the matters of volunteers, or the age of military commitment increased in this proposal, should be re-entered into the registration system from which they were excluded due to previous regulations. Overall, I therefore believe that the dismantling of the Integrated Ministry must be supported, and a better solution than this integrated governance system. [[20.50]] An essential element of the proposal is the design of the concept of a defence emergency. Here are the guarantees contained in the proposal that can be interpreted not in themselves, so if someone has a problem with it, but in addition to what kind of measures the defence emergency would otherwise allow. If you look at this, you can see that this is rather limited, and it is indeed extremely important that the defence emergency cannot restrict or affect fundamental rights of citizens. It is essential for the legal certainty of citizens not only to create the possibility of using the public interest, but also to use the wording that is included in the proposal, because indeed, not only the obligation to compensate, but the related guarantee elements may even raise the question that, in addition to such a guarantee element, the Ministry will think twice about turning to the Government Office for the use of property in the public interest. I believe that an increase in the age limit for potential military servants, in addition to today's population figures, is entirely reasonable and acceptable. I have to say to you, of course, that everyone can say that they are completely unfit for service for health reasons, and one who, despite their 70-year-old age, has just run the marathon distance, so there are enormous differences here, but I think that, in addition to the improvement of life prospects and the increase in life expectancy, the 50-year-old age as the age limit for military engagement is absolutely acceptable. The proposal does not, of course, address a series of issues, which could be raised either in the context of the military development programme or in the context of the military careers. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the tasks to be solved in relation to the Hungarian Defence Agency, the tasks to be solved in relation to the protection of the country, are much wider than what the bill now presents, and that the fact that we are discussing this now does not mean that, as we have already said in several committee meetings, and indeed, the management of the portfolio said that otherwise the laws which are intended to regulate, for example, the areas that I have mentioned would not take place. So I would just like to say that on the proposal we are asking what is in it, what is not in it, should not be taken into account, because, as I would say, it makes the debate a little unframed. Overall, the proposal submitted by the Ministry and the Government is supported by the Fidesz fraction. We are, of course, open to amendments, where appropriate, which call for improvements in the proposal, whether in terms of full respect for citizens' rights or in terms of guarantee elements or otherwise, but one thing is quite certain: we can only reach a compromise during the debate that does not weaken, but strengthen, the country's defence capabilities. Thank you very much for your attention, and our faction supports the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-13-186	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's time for Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-13-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3291 in front of us. We are negotiating a bill. I am very sorry that in such a very serious case, only four Fidesz MEPs, namely four pro-government representatives, are sitting in Parliament's horseshoe, one of whom is the Secretary of State, the other is the Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, and the third is the notary, and Mr Hubay is the sole representative, but he is also a member of the Defence and Police Committee. Although both Mr State Secretary and Commission President Kósa have indicated the fundamental objectives that this bill serves according to their position, and we must even say that these objectives, i.e. the objective of abolishing integrated management, are appropriate, I think we consider that all those mentioned as grounds in this so-called salad law, are actually about diverting attention from the essence, the real point of view. But let's see the details. In this bill, the Act on the Status of Civil Servants, the Act on Social Insurance Pensions, the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, the Law on Central Government Administrations, the Law on the Status of Members of the Government and State Secretarys, the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, the Law on Defence and the Hungarian Defence and the Act on measures that can be implemented in a special legal order, the Law on Military Administrative Tasks concerning the Status of Patrons, the Data Management of Defence and the Compliance of Certain Defence Obligations, and the Act on Election Procedure. In the general justification, the proposer stated that Article 45 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law, which declares Hungary's armed power and the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which is governed by the Government, considers, on the basis of this mandate, that it can make this package of legislative proposals. According to my humble legal position, this package of laws, in particular the amendment of the provisions of the Defence Act, is not a fundamental issue of law, but I consider that it should have been regulated in the Fundamental Law, because it creates a new kind of emergency that has been defined by our Fundamental Law, and that only the detailed rules of these can be regulated in a fundamental law. [[Lajos Kosa sneezes.]] And paragraphs 2 and 2 of the Act declaring Hungary's armed force and the operation of the Hungarian Defence Service, which is controlled by the Government, believe that this package of legislative amendments can be made. According to my humble legal position, this package of laws, in particular the amendment of the provisions of the Defence Act, is not a fundamental issue of law, but I consider that it should have been regulated in the Fundamental Law, because it creates a new kind of emergency that has been defined by our Fundamental Law, and that only the detailed rules of these can be regulated in a fundamental law. (Lajos Kósa sneezes. ) Cheers, fellow Member. But the point is, I will explain this later, that this part of the proposal would have been part of the Fundamental Law, and the detailed rules of this could have been defined in a fundamental law. The Hungarian Defence Office operates in a civilly controlled system, in peace with volunteering, in exceptional condition and in a preventive defense situation, a state organisation based on volunteering and general military obligation, and refers to the general justification that it would like to replace this existing organisation with another type of management, creating a new institution. The current governance and management system has several internal contradictions, says the general justification and refers to the 48/1991. The fundamental difference between the management and management of the organisation is that the manager is outside the managed entity, but the manager is located at the top of the organisation and within it as part of it. The reason I am surprised at the appeal of this 1991 AB resolution is that, if my fellow Members remember the laws of the last few years, the government has often justified the introduction of a new legal institution or a different regulation from the rules that have been made so far, that the first Constitutional Court was not at the top of the situation, was too liberal, was overly liberal, was overly based on the principles which were intended to enforce the less authority of the state in the democratic legal system, rather, let them understand the processes, fundamentals and principles, and they were not always fit to regulate the real problems properly. [[21.00]] And what do we see? The same degraved and disdained Constitutional Court quotes the general justification of this legislative or legislative proposal. By the way, I am glad that the government understands that the first Constitutional Court had well-founded decisions. In his expo, Minister of State said in particular that in 2011 a legal environment was created that now governs the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of Defence, and he says that, since then, crisis situations have arisen either in our neighbourhood or in regions far away from us, which explicitly justify the need to reorganize the organisation of the defence. Our position is that the challenges we have faced recently, even in our immediate environment, are worth to us, are to the people of Europe, which can be applied perfectly, both by the basic laws and by the existing legal provisions. Crisiss can be handled, conflicts can tell you exactly who's in charge. And after these legal institutions established in 11 had not yet been tested, because if it had been the case that we had to test the Act No 11 and we would have seen that it could not be applied in some way because of some kind of conflict of jurisdiction, incomplete legal provisions, it was not destined for the purpose, then it could be seen that, indeed, it is time and in some way to modify the rules that have been done; but it did not have a test. Because no one says, please, that migration was a test of the legislation that was created in 11 because it was a completely different type of crisis. We weren't attacked there, there was no international military conflict, there was only one task for the military, because it couldn't be done with anything but the protection of the border and the involvement in the building of the fence. In this way, I consider that the justification for the various international situations that have arisen since then to be unfounded. With this, we consider that there is only some kind of diversion from the real purpose of the legislation. Our Fundamental Law is XXXI. Article 1 (1) of the Treaty states that all Hungarian citizens are obliged to protect their country. The Defense Act 1. Paragraph 1 states that national defence is a national matter, and paragraph 3 expressly provides that legal entities established under the law and all persons residing in Hungary are involved in the provision of services, and citizens are involved in the performance of personal service within the limits laid down in this Act in preparation for defence and in the implementation of defence tasks. Then the 5th. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 states that the summoning of those subject to war shall take place by means of a call order, which shall be served by the territorial body of the military administration competent for the place where the military administration is to be ordered. Why did I call these existing rules here? I called you here because the amendment to this new law is about the fact that now those over 50 years of age, i.e. those who pass 50 years of age, cannot be considered a person of war from the following year. We often debate whether to bring some benefits to our countrymen across the border. There are a number of doubts as to whether or not the various budget subsidies are going to go there, which is the goal and whether they are serving the goods of our fellow countrymen living across the border or for a completely different purpose. But in any case, it is a fact, and I would therefore argue with the part of the proposal that says that this 50-year age was needed because of a significant reduction in the number of our citizens who are eligible for war due to migration. Here's the problem. I quoted the places of law because, based on the interpretation and the personal scope of the legal bases, the number of persons who can be called in has not decreased, and in the last eight years the number of people who can be called into the army has increased with the one million new Hungarian citizens who can be called in, because, by law, Hungarian citizenship is also a military obligation, another question is that it might be good for the wallet; please, Mr Secretary of State, talk about, let us say, the Hungarian citizen who resides outside the border, who is subject to the law, because he is also bound by the law, what kind of headquarters is there by whom he can be called from his place of residence. So here there is a little confusion of coherence, because I consider that those Hungarian citizens, thank God, our fellow Hungarians who wanted to be Hungarian citizens, with this legislation and the future problem that even the army has to solve, can strengthen their relationship with the Hungarian country as Hungarian citizens by saying that they must be involved in this activity in some way. Because if the Fundamental Law says that all Hungarian citizens are subject to war and say that this extends to Hungarian citizens, then we should also start talking about what is the situation with our countrymen who have migrated and with our countrymen who live across the border and have become Hungarian citizens. I think it would be worth opening a debate on this. I'd like to comment on point 8. Unfortunately, it's not gonna take me 15 minutes to say all my things, so I'm gonna press another button to tell you the rest, but I'm gonna add to point 8 that we agree with the part of the proposal, which is point 8. However, it must be known that this is an administrative solution in itself and does not serve the purpose of the legislation. We can no longer keep the stock, despite the increase in salaries, but unfortunately they do not employ as many people as the legislation allows and which, by the way, the tasks would require, and we cannot stop the outflow. In itself, by raising the age limit to 50 years, we simply create an administrative file, but it does not have a specific personal image. In the framework of the, Zrínyi 2026, they intend to increase the number of professional and contract soldiers. Is this really going to be the number of people in peacetime, or is it just increasing the number of people in regular numbers? I will ask you to answer these questions, Mr Secretary of State, if you have the means. Article 16 is replaced by the following: Paragraph (b) of the Act states that from the powers of the Parliament, the detailed breakdown of the army, including the voluntary reserveers, as well as the main military equipment and the necessary financial resources, will then be determined by the government. We consider this to be an exaggeration. These questions must be kept under the authority of the Parliament. If we take it out of Parliament's hands, we might be able to leave it to the profession, but we have to say that we have to keep control of the Parliament. It must be maintained because we believe that the profession alone is not capable of recognising the political basis for these problems, crises, prospects and the system of relations that citizens, society and the army need to take into account in their relations with each other. It doesn't matter if we're an army of generals, or if there's some soldiers involved. Because at the moment, if you look at it from the financing side, it doesn't matter what structure the staff has, which groups are present in a larger number and which would otherwise be able to function as an army, so we think that this kind of new structure would definitely require that we maximize the number of generals. So it is a very, very big problem today that the army is heavy, there are many generals, but there are very few soldiers like the military. It is very important that we avoid continuing to produce such generals, because we can see that there are very large numbers of generals from generals brought together from buddies, but those who then defend the country in the event of a crisis are very few. I would now like to share these few points with you, and I would like to continue when I have listened to the contributions of my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[21.10]]
u2018-11-13-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honour, Secretary of State. The increase in the age of 40 years to 50 years is explained by the detailed justification of the proposal by the fact that the population loss due to the decrease in birth numbers, which results in a continuous decrease in the number of men of warable age, is characteristic of our country as well. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In contrast to the recent propaganda of the Ministry of Defence, which has stabilised and even increased the number of soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the detailed justification of the proposal contains a broken confession. According to this, it is difficult to replenish positions in military organisations during the period of peace or, in the light of the experience of the past years, to reduce the rate of outflow, it follows that, with a view to ensuring the preventive defence situation and the emergency status, military organisations are filled in peace an increase in the number of persons required to be employed. Good news, House, is that at least the defense designers of the Ministry of Defence do not fall for their own government propaganda and see Hungary's population and future as dark as that reality in the ninth year of the NER. A single positive is the continuous increase in life expectancy at birth. The author therefore expects an increase of approximately 850 thousand persons to be called on under the military obligation by increasing the age limit. In addition, a new institution will be presented to regulate the defence emergency. We also believe that this raises questions. 19 of the proposal. Article 21/A of the new Defence Act. A significant part of the measures provided for in paragraph 6 of Section 6 of this Article may be ordered by the Government without this new legal institution. What is an additional element is the right of public interest to use private property in a defence emergency. Overall, it is questionable whether the legal institution of the defence emergency can actually contribute to the protection of Hungary in any way, or whether its publication is only symbolic in good faith reading, or, knowing the practical functioning of NER, may serve as a means of raising a constant sense of threat and hysteria of war. In this respect, the crisis caused by mass immigration to date is just enough deterrent. The rules of publication and extension are the same as those of the crisis caused by mass immigration. That is, the government can, without any parliamentary decision for six months, independently order, only prevent the extension of the Parliament by refusing to accept the government's report on the extension. Six months without parliamentary authority is a very long time. Furthermore, the creation of a right of public interest is also a completely new legal institution under the law, under which the Ministry of Defence may use any property which may be used for defence purposes by decision. This will also be possible in an exceptional state of emergency and in a preventive defence situation, as well as in a defence emergency. The latter is considered to be of concern, taking into account the regulation of the defence emergency outlined in the previous point. Article 35 is replaced by the following: In its detailed justification for Article 4 of the Treaty, it does not hide that the rules on the right of use in the public interest were essentially written in the event of a defence emergency. It is also of concern and question whether it is justified to authorise the Internet to be fully blocked in the defence situation prior to the government, when there is a threat of external attack, but it has not yet occurred. In the event of a state of war, this state of emergency may be justified by blocking the entry of enemy propaganda, but in a preventive defense situation, the reduction of the possibility of information to zero seems excessive. Otherwise, in a preventive defense situation, Hvt. is currently an opportunity for increased monitoring of internet, mail, parcel and mail traffic. As Mr Kósa said, we MSZPs consider setting up the Hungarian Defence Command as a step backwards, because the command functions of the Hungarian Defence Forces were terminated by the first Orbán government or what did it do? back in 2001, and with six-party agreement, he integrated the Honvéd Chief of Staff into the Ministry of Defence. This was then explained in the general justification for the amendment as follows. According to the current two separate organisations, the then Ministry of Defence, Honvéd General Faculty, should be set up with a smaller number of integrated ministries to ensure the implementation of both defence administration and military professional tasks. Furthermore, it was justified at the time that budget resources were planned and used to be monitored more effectively. However, due to the elimination of duplication of tasks and organisations, the elimination of malfunctions, the reduction of driving levels and management status were mentioned as a reason. However, it was also justified by the fact that a uniform, economical and efficient ministerial background structure could be established by re-regulation of service and professional subordination relations, said the Fidesz government at the time in 2001. That is to say, the opposite of what is the justification for the proposal that has just been tabled. The current amendment is also surprising to us, MSZPs, because no one has asked for the management system of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The Defence Act adopted in 2011 to present the Minister for Defence of Hende Csaba also essentially left the management order established in 2001. The reasoning of the proposal does not give any meaningful explanation as to why the arguments put forward in 2001 are still incorrect, why it is necessary to return to the wasteful way of operation 17 years ago. The fact that it is not a valid explanation is that it is possible up to the Ministry of Defence. The conflict of authority between the Secretary of State and the Chief of Staff, as it was also known in 2001, and it was decided to do so by considering the establishment of the Integrated Ministry of Defence. The argument on the separation of military leadership and civilian control is also lame in view of the fact that the proposal provides that a military defence secretary will also have to be appointed in addition to the Minister of State for Public Administration in the Ministry of Defence. Please, the proposal is 67. §2 of the Act restricts the freedom of expression of soldiers to an unacceptable extent by allowing the Minister of Defence to prohibit or restrict the presence of a member of the staff on the Internet community portals or on image-sharing surfaces, in so far as it may harm the security interest or undermine the social judgement of the Hungarian Defence Office. Please, there may, of course, be a reasonable limitation at the statutory level. Obviously, it may be in the interest of national security and defence if, for example, staff members post photos and writings in foreign operational areas. However, the concept of the protection of the social image of the Hungarian Defence Service is not sufficient argument for the total banning of soldiers from community surfaces which have become an integral part of life. The terms and conditions of the restriction shall be laid down by law and its detailed rules by regulation. In this case, the restriction introduced by the HM order in the public body regulatory instrument is, in our opinion, unacceptable. Finally, the proposal is set at 80. According to §2 of the Act, the further relaxation of the relationship between the occupied post and the worn rank, i.e. the positions tied to a higher rank will be able to be treated with a lower rank, showing the serious problems the Hungarian Defence Office is facing when filling the posts. [[21.20]] The bill, honourable Members, honourable State Secretary, honourable House, is therefore not supported by the MSZP, because it gives even more power from power than we already believe to be a little bit of a drunken government. For example, the introduction of a defence emergency, the establishment of a right of free public interest or the reduction of the parliamentary authority. But we do not support it because it completely prohibits the freedom of speech of soldiers on the Internet and the use of social media, and also because they turn the Internet off completely by reference to war threats, and in the end we do not support it because they would restore the organizational structure of the Hungarian Defence Office, which was considered premature 17 years ago. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Lajos Kósa, applause: Bravo! Bravo!]]
u2018-11-13-190	Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we started the debate on the future of the Hungarian Defence Forces, on the bill concerning Hungarian soldiers and on the very important bill concerning Hungarian citizens, I was sure of two things, first of all, that it would be said on the part of the pro-government representatives, and it was also said that the Hungarian defence and military affairs were a national matter, and it would be good for the opposition to have this attitude and behave accordingly. On the other hand, I was quite sure that migration would emerge. When it was said that the matter of defence is a national matter, I must say, fellow Members, that the term sounded rather empty from the Secretary of State's mouth, and I became quite sad. That is because at 8:30 p.m., we started the debate on such a very important law, so that the former soldier, current minister, Mr Benkő, did not honour the National Assembly to come in here and tell us that if they had been dealing with this law for a long time, which they had not shared with the members of the Defence Committee before, even though they could have, we could have talked about how to transform the Hungarian Defence Force, so that it would be effective, at least here. But it seems that the minister is running away from Members for some reason, and, of course, he is sending in his Secretary of State, which he has the right to do, but he is not elegant, because we are talking about the future of the Hungarian Defence Office. Sooner or later, the Minister will have to appear, if not elsewhere, in front of the Defence Committee, and Mr Benkő will have to report on what has been done in the last few weeks, in the months, in secret or openly, squandering the money of Hungarian taxpayers, stealing, reversing the wheels of the development of the Hungarian Defence Service. That's pretty much what this bill says. My fellow Member, Agnes Kunhalmi, has already spoken about governance. [[István Szilárd Németh's phone rang.]] The Minister might be sending a message right now. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] on the issue of leadership. At the time, and then I would like to clarify, the 2183/1999. a government decision ordered integration, and it became a parliamentary decision in 2000. This was not just because there was a need for change, because the decision-makers at the time felt very rightly that the management of the Hungarian Defence Forces at that time and the operation of the Ministry of Defence at that time were inadequate, but also because it was claimed at that time that this was important because of joining NATO. I'd like to know what's going on. NATO is no longer so important, it is no longer important for civilians and soldiers to work together to understand what is happening in the Hungarian Defence Office, it is no longer so important to have stronger civilian control, and it is no longer so important to cut the water head. I would like to note, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem of moving the Honvéd General Choir to Székesfehérvár, by any name, is not solved by the Hungarian Defence Office, but only by taking it to Székesfehérvár, because there will be no more soldiers. Although the data is confidential, it may not be possible for the members of the Defence and Police Committee to know it even in a closed session if the Chief of Staff does not give permission to do so, which is simply incomprehensible, perhaps soon to get to know this data in a way, it may not be possible to get to know the upload data, but it is not from the top of the Hungarian Defence Service, so not from the control system, but from the real fighting soldiers that my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm spoke about, so we estimate that 5 or 8,000 of the soldiers are missing. Although the number has now been gracefully increased with a parliamentary resolution, it will not make him any more soldiers, and this will not make the Hungarian Defence Office work better. I don't think there's any argument between us that the highest value is man, whether he's a soldier or a policeman, that's a fact and a fact. But I think it would be worth telling the truth about these issues only because of respect for them. I understand that there is a great enlightenment now that we need a different kind of leadership, your heart and soul, that you will obviously vote for every two-thirds law, and that you will not accept any opposition amendment, and I have no doubt about that. Only the arguments they make about the past year x and what security policy changes there are do not require at all, and precisely that they do not require the separation of integrated leadership so far. For the record, while Mr. Benkő was a commanding officer, he never indicated to me that he had a problem with integrated management, not once. In the last eight years, since you've been on the government, it has never been said at the Defense Committee's meeting that an integrated leadership of the Joint Chiefs and the Ministry of Defence would cause huge problems because it didn't cause any problems. Obviously, it's a good topic, you can spend money there again, because you have to build, you can steal again, as you do, because you'll need money to move some or all of the Honvéd General Choir or military command to Székesfehérvár. I think that, in addition to the integrated governance problem, there are some issues that need to be addressed in very detailed terms. My fellow opposition officer, Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Committee, first spoke about a defence emergency, but then he improved that it was a defence emergency. The justification for what the law says is that it is necessary to introduce this part of the actual exceptional legal system, because hybrid warfare poses challenges to the world that make it necessary to have such a defence emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State is right that there is no internationally accepted definition of hybrid warfare. Of course, the meeting point determines the position, if the Russians talk about hybrid warfare, then they say something very different than when our Western allies talk about hybrid warfare. However, allow me to recommend to you that István Simicskó, our fellow Member, former Minister of Defence, learns about hybrid warfare, because they are worth it, because he has collected a lot of definitions. The term itself is not so difficult either, according to the hybrid, it is a mixed, diverse range of warfare, but the Secretary of State specifically mentioned cyber security, which is why it is necessary to introduce a defence emergency. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the event of attacks from cyberspace, it is not necessary to declare a defence emergency, but it is necessary that those who attack the website of the defence portfolio, who attack the disaster protection website, who attack the websites of various public bodies, try to filter it out. This requires nothing more than professionals who are able to perform this task and, of course, political will. We have told you many times that trolls from St. Petersburg, North Korea and China are arriving who like hack public institutions' websites or try to intervene, for example, in electoral systems. They were not very happy when I spoke in this Parliament about the need to remove the Kaspersky Lab virus exterminator from the Members of Parliament's laptops and the laptops of state bodies. The whole case has been bludgeoned. Then it turned out that I was right, and at least that was the move. In English, I would like to say to you that if you are excited about hybrid warfare, and you are doing the right thing, then the task would be to do something about it. You have all the possible means to act in the event of cyberspace attacks. Of course, it is difficult to see that the Fidesz Troll Army, complemented by some government troll soldiers, starts himself and produces certain false news and performs the typical form of hybrid warfare. [[21.30]] They spread information on the Internet, which is then taken over by public media, of course, all of which are false news, which then spread nicely to newspapers funded by you, by the government or by your party, and that's what they're saying. We've been watching this, fellow Members. So I agree with that, and I very much support the fact that we are finally doing something about cyber-attacks, and with the various fake news broadcasts, we have a Bkt amendment proposal in this regard, and I would appreciate it if our pro-government fellow Members were to support it, but this is why we do not need to introduce a special legal order, which is about a defence emergency and which the government can order for six months. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, I was sure that there was also talk about the crisis caused by mass immigration, and that was also referred to by the Secretary of State. Now, if you are so concerned about the crisis caused by mass immigration and the criminal nature of refugees entering Hungary illegally, let me ask you, my fellow members of the Government, that it is possible that, on the basis of a final court decision without a passport, you should be in prison in Macedonia, a friend of former Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Nikola Gruevszki, is here in Hungary. Come on, you gotta tell me. And he's out there somewhere in Budapest, or who knows where he is. You are paralleling the introduction of a defence emergency with a crisis caused by mass immigration, while we see that an ex-Prime Minister with no valid travel document, convicted of corruption, who knows on what route the Balkans, Mr. State Secretary, will arrive in Hungary, and the Hungarian authorities are not busy catching this man and taking him where he should be. Well, he arrived with an invalid travel document, or he didn't have a travel document, so it couldn't have been, because in Macedonia, the court withdrew his passport for another matter, but no, he's somewhere in Budapest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs does not know or confirm or deny this news, and then the Macedonian police say that he is most likely to be in Budapest. Ladies and gentlemen, You have used all the emergencies that have been introduced in recent years and all the cases concerning border protection, police and defence: criminals have been allowed in here, terrorists have been allowed in here, people persecuted for crimes against humanity, mobsters have been allowed in, ex-Prime Minister has been legally convicted with invalid travel documents, they have stolen thanks to the exemption from public procurement, because they are using the crisis caused by mass immigration. Such a description of the defence emergency, which is included in this bill, is a rubber rule for, for example, the Military National Security Service that they will do something in cyberspace and increase their efforts there, or they will impose an accelerated decision-making procedure in the event of a defence emergency. I'll tell you now, the same thing that's going on with the crisis caused by mass immigration. You're gonna steal. Stealing. Because it's not a mistake in the system, it's a fundamental element of operation, and frankly, you should be ashamed that you're referring to a national matter here in the house of the country, and you're not doing anything with these billings but legitimizing your own theft. Finally, it's the duty of war. We need 850 thousand people, says the explanatory statement, and the Secretary of State also indicates that we are running out of people, we need men in the event of a military commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to draw attention to the fact that, although Congresswoman Varga-Damm spoke about the increase in numbers here, as there are two citizens, under the current rules, today's military obligation will be only for men who are resident in Hungary and are now 40 years old. [[Louis Kósa: 50!]] 50, I'm sorry, it's 40 now, but it's probably going to be 50, but maybe we can settle this. Hungarian citizens who do not have permanent residence in Hungary do not need to protect their country. Ladies and gentlemen, How's that? You can vote to protect your country, can't you? I'd like to tell you that you can't protect your country in a letter. If there's a problem, you have to be here, and by the way, it doesn't matter, Mr. Secretary and Congressman, that someone is 40, 20 or 30 years old. Believe me, we will protect the country, because we do not have to tell you every day that the issue of Hungarian defence and the protection of the country is a national matter. This is your frustration, that you think that it is because you are constantly warning everyone, all Hungarian citizens, that you will become Turbo-Hungarians. Believe me, fellow Members, that Hungarians love their country. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as 50 years are concerned, I think it is a complete mistake to go in this direction, but then I will continue this in a next speech. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-13-192	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, is next. Here you go.
u2018-11-13-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The amendment package, which has now been put on the Parliament's table again, is once again a clear proof that they are trying to compensate and correct the deteriorating situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces by amending the laws. The current problems are that legislation is constantly adapted to the deteriorating situation, it will not solve it, and indeed, as we see what points are being modified, the problems will increase, which will make it difficult to carry out tasks. This proposal deals with issues of fundamental concern to the safety of Hungarian people, in which there was a minimum need for prior consultation, both professional and political. Once again, the defence wallet failed to complete this, and in the Defence and Police Committee last week, I also initiated a supplementary agenda proposal for the Minister of Defence to come to the committee and report on the otherwise far-reaching organizational restructuring efforts that you are preparing for. In this case, I am talking about more intensive organisational separation between the Ministry and the Joint Chiefs, no one appeared at the committee meeting, and the Fidesz majority of the committee literally swept this proposal down, so unfortunately we did not know more than the reasons for the bill. There are clearly several elements of the government proposal that raise questions from a professional and constitutional point of view, and I would like to group the comments around four major issues. One is to increase the age of military engagement to 50 years. Firstly, I do not think that would be a solution in any way. It is clear that we must now talk about mass emigration in Hungary, as hundreds of thousands of young people have left Hungary because of the extremely bad social and economic policy measures. There is no solution to this by cosmetics in the legislation. The solution to this would be to take meaningful, social policy measures that stop this process, or reverse it, but despite all the programmes that have been started on this issue, whether only to play political theatre, or by chance to actually solve the problem, these efforts have failed, and young people are not yet coming back to Hungary. But I was surprised to hear the defense minister's argument, who, unfortunately, cannot be greeted here personally, and we cannot argue with him. I really do not understand what the Minister is afraid of, because he regularly avoids the meetings of the Parliament and the Defence and Police Committee. But he pointed out what it looks like that a 42-year-old can no longer be called in, if his services are needed for the safety of the country, then I do not know if he mentioned a specific 42-year-old example, then why, say, should this age increase to 50 years. But to hell with the details. But what I'm interested in, for example, is, technically, what kind of records I'd like to make of all of this. I would like to stress that we do not agree with the increase in the age limit, but I would certainly like an answer, whether you have the infrastructure requirements, the records that could be the basis for all this. [[21.40]] So that doesn't make him any more professional or contract soldiers of the Hungarian Army, which doesn't make young people more motivated, and besides, even Hungary won't be safer, they're just changing on paper again. The other point is the voluntary reserve system, I can say that it is a beautical remodel, because the measures that are listed there are not very good for anyone else, by the way. More people will not apply to reserve, and this proposal will not solve the shortage of nearly 8,000 people who have now applied to the Hungarian Defence Office. The solution would be to secure competitive salaries, and, of course, here I must point out that, yes, there has been an increase in the defence salary base, reaching nearly 45 thousand forints next year, but it is clear that this cannot even stop the fluctuations in substance. We continue to propose, and we ask your support for this, that the salary base should be raised uniformly to HUF 60,000, so the civil servant's salary base and the civil protection salary base would certainly help the situation. In addition, it would be necessary to ensure that benefits other than salaries are properly provided, a predictable system of promotion, including housing, social and health and other elements, is finally needed, and I should also bring here the need to introduce a new type of early retirement pension, a pension scheme that is also socially fair. We have put forward a number of proposals to restore the pension status of those who are currently receiving service allowances to eliminate the 15 percent deduction, which would, on the one hand, appreciate their decades of service. I think that, by the way, the humiliating situation they've been through because of the government's wrong decision cannot be compensated, but obviously this could be a message to them. The second is that it would be a very important message for the active population and that the compensation for the civil society health fund should be extended to them, and we have also put forward a concrete proposal to make it a new type of early retirement pension scheme. You simply refuse to discuss this either in the Defence Committee or in plenary, even though it would be a complex system of advancement and a complex way of life that could provide a perspective for young people. And the goal you set to have in this country is not to increase military capabilities at all, and it would be an extraordinary waste in terms of the number of defenses, and I'm not even looking at the number of 8,000. There would be a need for a reserve system of 5 to 6,000 people, but those who are actually voluntary, so they are not forced government officials and are not forced to perform duties. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are not living in the age of the masses, we are not dealing with conventional armed attacks, so the 20,000 reserveers are an incredibly flawed construction if you are thinking about it and hope that you can guarantee the security of the country. This does not lead to, or even distract, very limited resources from, professional forces, because unfortunately we see a number of evidence that the now increased money is not being used for what it should be. Third, I would like to highlight the introduction of a defence emergency as another special period. This does not make the Hungarian Defence Service any more operational, we will not have any more soldiers, and even the rules that are now becoming more and more confusing should finally be clarified and properly applied to the existing legal environment. So there is no need to make any changes in order to guarantee the security of the country, simply to operate and apply the laws properly, and to operate the army and the control system on the basis of these laws, which is very unlikely for the government to succeed. So, as you said, Secretary of State, there is no need for a more flexible mandate, no need for a more flexible mandate at all. When the government talks about this, it has always been a bad end, from the point of view of taxpayers, and the country's security system today, we can say that it is indeed on the brink of collapse, that the operational problems are not solved at all by these legal acts, which, by the way, create legal uncertainty and make even the existing legislation unapplicationable. Fourthly, I would like to highlight the organisational separation of the Ministry and the Joint Chiefs, which would basically even be an eligible item, but first of all, we need to see the ideas of improving efficiency, the elements for strengthening the practicality of civil control. You can't see any of this. The institution of civilian control was also a fundamental condition for our NATO accession, and we can say that this system has now been broken down almost one by one, the Defence and Police Committee is almost a lame duck, and it is not getting any meaningful information about anything. And obviously, in such an organizational separation, transparency should also prevail. To date, it is not clear what investments this will entail and where public funds will be leaked, which, unfortunately, we see a lot of examples. However, I also mentioned the separation at the hearing of the current Chief of Staff, where I asked why it is good to have parallel leadership in the Hungarian Army at the moment. At that time, he defended the condition at that time, or the state currently in force, and said that he thought there was no such parallel driving. However, the current change, which I believe could be supported, of course, unfortunately the guarantee elements are not there, so from now on we will not be able to support it, but they will implement it by not ensuring the external control of the Hungarian Defence Forces at all. In addition to constitutional and political concerns, the lack of effective control over military leaders can pose a threat to people in two respects. One is that if control is not achieved properly, we can say that the army can become self-propelled, which, in the most extreme case, can lead to the military not implementing the decisions taken by the elected representatives of the people and the constitutional actors. That would be a huge problem. It is also possible to carry at least such a risk if the current government can have an army excluded from parliamentary control on its own political grounds and without any accounting. This is quite clear that a very bad scenario, both of which would be a terrible scenario, and each could lead to a very serious internal crisis and the security of the Hungarian people. Therefore, this should not be allowed to happen. And I would also like to point out that NAIH has made more findings on this legislative change package, so I would be very interested to know whether the proposals of NAIH will be taken into account and whether any amendments are planned in the text. So, overall, this package of laws does not make the Hungarian Defence Agency any more operational at all, with the nearly 8,000-dollar shortage that currently exists in the defence sector, it is not going to be resolved at all, so it is clear that procurements do not become more transparent, because we clearly see that we are talking about hundreds of billions of forints, which are exempted from public procurement by the Fidesz majority of the Defence and Police Committee, and it is also clear that they are buying essentially civilian assets from these funds, so they are not increasing the military capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Office. So under these circumstances, this proposal is legal, this is a supplementary act, which is before us, which, by the way, contains rubber rules that give rise to a great deal of abuse, so that the institution of democratic governance and control of the armed forces, as a civilian control, does not take place in Hungary at the moment, carries many dangers, does not increase the security of Hungarian people, so the LMP Group will not be able to support this proposal. [[21.50]]
u2018-11-13-194	Dear Parliament, We have come to the end of the speaker speeches; we have come to the end of the speaker speeches. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, contrary to the fact that there are two speakers asking for a normal word. First, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, please.
u2018-11-13-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to continue the part of the lead speech that the 15 minutes didn't allow me to finish. I would continue with the bill 18. §2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the part of the Court of Justice of the European Obviously, there will be funding conditions for this, of course, but we must say that until we are clear about the category in which these posts will be, and will indeed be the numbers and proportions that the Minister of Defence has asked to vote in the parliamentary resolution proposal last week, whether these will be the posts and numbers that the government will determine, or if the government will be practically as it pleases, in a puffy way. There are, in many cases, cross-cycle acquisitions of major military equipment, so we believe that the mandate of the Parliament cannot be converted to the government. We do not think that the government should define these procurements, of course it is not about leaving all kinds of procurement under Parliament's jurisdiction, but in any case, the large volumes that essentially define and develop the capabilities of defence, we do not think that they should be referred to as government powers. With regard to voluntary reserve workers, what is in principle a good thing in the proposal is that we do not exclude anyone, but one thing we must not forget, and this is that it costs money. So the volunteer reserveer doesn't go so far as to apply, we hire him, and from then on he consumes huge money by giving them at least the training they need to know what they're doing in a given crisis. We can agree with the establishment of the Hungarian Defence Command, but there will be another interesting question about how it will be implemented. In your government, there have been many times in the last eight years that, by the way, good systems, good rules, good initiatives have been implemented in some lousy way, and they have also been ruined. In this way, it is possible to agree with the principle, the structure that this proposal contains, but the question will be how it is implemented and whether implementation does not undermine the intention that this legislative proposal contains. Moreover, the amendment itself does not reveal the way in which it is implemented. If we look at the HJ. I now turn to his 10th Annex to the positions and to the advancement in which there are the waiting times for who is to be in the rank of one, then we see that it is written that, in order to be a general, it would take at least 27 years in different rank. If, in the most optimal case, the young lieutenant or lieutenant comes out of college at the age of 22, depending on his academic record, that means he can't be a general before he's 49. If you like to see how many generals under the age of 49 have become in the Hungarian Defence Office in the last 15 years or 20 years, on the one hand, they faint, and on the other hand, the question is, who have created this situation so far, and the army of such generals is the Hungarian Defence Office, then suddenly we want to avoid competition? So it was possible to give a general rank before the age of 49, and now suddenly it's not. Isn't it perhaps the fact that there are a very significant number of people in the current general's faculty who have become generals only on the basis of a relationship and not on the basis of their actual performance? I'm just asking you this as a question. The fundamental task of the draft law would be to show what the new organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office will be like. This is important, however, because the portfolio intends to break up with this particular integrated model, in which the Minister led and controlled the Hungarian Defence Forces, and the Honvéd General Arm was an integral part of HM. That alone, as I said before, could be good. But what we consider important is that this must be developed in very mature professional debates. You can't ignore international trends. It cannot be overlooked that we are part of a NATO organizational system, which has already been mentioned in the presentation of my former fellow Members. We do not define the systems and tasks that we must implement and follow. There's standards, there's procedure. Will this new organisational system be able to implement them, and will it be able to adapt its own structure? And what is very important is that we do not know from the draft what the leadership of the Hungarian Defence Forces will look like at all in the future. So we are creating a new status, but this proposal does not reveal what this will all look like, by the way. It's a giant hypothesis mass. It is clear that the Hungarian Defence Command will be established, and the question is where, and this organization will also be the Chief of Military Staff, but it is unclear about the 36th and 37th. The Parliament has something to do with this, according to the section on how the division of powers will take place between the two of us, and I apologize. This cannot be defined by the government; this can only be defined by a fundamental law. How will the relationship between the Minister of Defence and the commander of the Hungarian Defence Corps be? The Secretary of Defense is now in charge of the defense, that's all right. But how will the commander of the Hungarian Defence Corps deal with the Minister of Defence? And if the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces also holds the command post of Honvéd Chief of Staff, is it a question whether the Honvéd Chief Staff will remain as an independent military advisory body of the Ministry of Defence, or will it be merged into this command? Are you combining the Hungarian Defence Command in the strategic planning of the Honvéd General Faculty and his HP tactical command, or will they operate side by side? These are all professional issues; they are not political issues, they are professional issues. Article 36 (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) §Says he must be the Secretary of State for Defence, who must be a soldier. This is what my fellow Members have just spoken about on this very important issue. Please, what's a soldier to be a defense secretary? In a civilian-led Ministry of Defence, as the current minister had to resign his rank, so he is not a soldier, what is a defense minister doing there, who is required to be a soldier, and it is even written that he must have at least 20 years of military service. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I'd like to ask you modestly, does that mean that anyone who's been deputy officers for 20 years and has any other colleges can be a defense secretary? 'Cause I'm sure that's not what you were thinking, but hypothetically, that's part of it. The next question is: I'll be back again when you say that the government will decide on the deployment of the international military command in Hungary. This is the international military command, my fellow Members, except, of course, who meet this every day on the basis of their professional competence, it is a very nice thing in the NATO system, and this is what many countries candidate, and very few countries get the opportunity to do so. In order to have an international command in the territory of any NATO member country, it is necessary to have an amazing amount of competence, ability, organisation, and a great deal of money, and most importantly, it is not decided by the Hungarian government, which is written here in this proposal, but it is decided by NATO Secure, who will see whether the NATO country's ability to offer and the medium it creates for establishing this international command is suitable. But what is very important is that it cannot exist in itself, but it must be connected to a Corps within the bosom of NATO, and I would just like to indicate that there is one in Naples. And who were extremely good lobbyists, who committed a lot of money, and who arranged for them to have this? Romania. We do not think that they will want to establish an international military command in Hungary joining Romania, because it is not certain at all that if NATO allows this, it will be connected to the Italian territory, not even because of distance. Very good, we're very happy about it, but there's only one small problem: it's certainly not up to the government to decide. [[22.00]] For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 5 of the Emergency Regulation, where we are also talking about extending the right to use weapons to the possibility of armed deployment of the forces in the territory of the country. It's an extremely dangerous rule. So if, by the way, the legislation were in order, it would not be possible to vote in itself. Please, this potentially gives the government the right to use the army against the citizens of our own country without a situation that would lead to a war or a battle situation, so that anyone who votes in favour of it, and I stress, although there are very few Fidesz Members in this Chamber, that if you really want to serve the Hungarian people, you should not introduce such a pass into a law. It's simply forbidden. We swore to the Hungarian people here, they sent us here, such a rule cannot be introduced. It is no coincidence that no one has thought of bringing this to this House since the change of regime. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 defines the system of the right of use in the public interest. It is completely opaque what you are thinking, there are no specific rules in it, and simply anyone can abuse this situation, and we cannot serve it. The same is the problem with the powers of the military police, and it can be said overall: all indications are that the defence is given the right to impose a crisis in basically peacetime with powers that were not previously: the use of weapons against civilians, a measure against civilians. At the time of the change of regime, the democratic legislative company did not limit itself by accident because it was said that legislation could not create a situation that could in some way create a military coup. If you like modeling this legislative proposal, I did it this weekend, then I would say that there could be a situation against the government that someone would use these rules to turn the army against the government. Who needs this in Hungary? Make me think about it. You may have told Prime Minister that this legislation is for what literally means, but it is a double-edged weapon. It is not possible, in particular, to pass a two-thirds law so that it may be applied to us in any new domestic political situation. Please keep the balance at the time of the change of regime. We cannot cross a certain line because it is at least as dangerous not only for society but also for you and the government. Article 19 The new defence emergency terminology, which I said in my speech by the lead speaker, requires a fundamental amendment, because it is a new type of situation defined in the Fundamental Law, in which cases the government and the Defence Council are obliged and entitled to act. We already have a state of emergency, a preventive defense situation, a state of emergency, an unexpected attack and a terrorist threat. These are the five. There's a defense emergency now. It's not defined, we don't know how anyone's gonna recognize it. So who's gonna be able to tell if there's a defence emergency or not? But it is certain that if this is found, then there is actually a situation that man cannot control, that man cannot define the limits, that the whole society will be exposed to the will of the government. According to the detailed justification, the safety environment has changed significantly in previous years, in particular as a justification for this new defence emergency. He says that the blur of borders has clearly happened, and that's why he wants to give the government more authority. The threats that Hungary has had in recent years have been perfectly manageable with the introduction of a special legal order. The legislative efficiency of the Parliament: in the last few weeks, they have been able to abolish serious institutions in 32 hours; so Parliament has such efficiency, in any crisis situation it can be convened, negotiated and it can be decided that practically such a new competence cannot be given to the government, the sovereignty of the Parliament must remain. There's 54. §, I'd like to end up with a few thoughts about this, limiting access to Internet content, channels, ranges. Please, if society is in a crisis, if we are in a defence emergency, I will not shut down these systems, but I will use them to inform our countrymen of what they are doing. Once again, this is a self-dangerous rule that is not justified today in a democratic rule of law, based on established international and domestic conditions. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-196	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome back, too. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vada.
u2018-11-13-197	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important topic, and while I can see that there are more impatient Members who would like us to finish the debate, but if we were not able to discuss it in advance in the Parliamentary Defence and Police Committee, it is an important obligation, even if it is so late at night, and perhaps the citizens are not following what is happening here in plenary, yet it is at least a matter of posterity and ourselves to talk about the matter of the army. A number of people mentioned it, in my speech to the lead speaker, I also spoke about the defence emergency, which would be a new type of extraordinary institution, which could be ordered on the government's proposal for six months by giving the government an immediate obligation to inform the President of the Republic and the Parliament's standing committee on defence. It is basically a very important thing that Members and, obviously, the Hungarian Parliament and the President of the Republic, who have something to do with the matter of defence, are informed accordingly. Any such bill or such proposal could be supported by the Fund, such a sentence. But I cannot, my fellow Members, because in recent years, especially in recent weeks, it has been proven that you do not take your obligation to inform seriously at all. I wrote a letter to the Minister, Mr Benkő, because I wanted to see the new machine of the Dassault Falcon 7X Business Jet. I got the answer that I can't look at this machine unless the Homeland Security and Police Committee decides. My apologies, I have so much to do with the Homeland Security and Police Committee that I'm vice president of it. I'm not subordinate to that committee, I'm not his superior, I'm his vice president, because the National Assembly is there. The fact that I, as vice-president of the Hungarian Defence Committee, can see a machine that is now in the order of war in the registration of the Hungarian Defence Office, because we have now learned that it has been in the order of war that it has been purchased from the Hungarian taxpayers' money; so I think the kind of request that there would be such a legal order, such an emergency, such an emergency, such a defence emergency, we add our name to this: if there is an armed conflict in one of the neighbouring countries, and if there is a direct threat to the security of Hungary, the information about this is only you know, you will give or will not give it information about this; when the emergency is ordered and introduced, you will inform the President of the Republic and possibly inform the members of the Defence and Police Committee accordingly, our experience shows that this would not happen in such a situation. It wouldn't happen that way, but it would happen that someone would come to us with some kind of secret information and say that this wasn't public for 500,000 years, and that we couldn't talk about it, and I don't know what they're doing to us, they'd break our backs, and if we were talking about this information, they'd order the defence emergency, because they say there's an armed conflict, otherwise there's an armed conflict in the neighbourhood of Hungary, and you'd claim that this is a threat to the security of Hungary. This defence emergency will be ordered for six months, and its extension will, of course, be requested by this modeling, because this is what we have seen in the crisis caused by mass immigration, and your suggestion is that when you ask for an extension of this defence emergency, which could be anything, I will say once again, if the standing committee does not accept justification, it will not be extended. [[22.10]] Well, I find it hard to imagine that the pro-government members of the Defence and Police Committee would go against the government in such a case, so I'm telling you now that they would continue to prolong the defence emergency. Let's see what the government can do in the event of a defence emergency. I'm gonna increase the readiness of defense organizations. It's okay. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On a proposal from the Minister for Border Control, the strengthening of the control of the state border and the participation of the designated personnel of the Defence Organisations. In a case where there is an emergency requiring military treatment in a neighbouring country and in some way endangers the security of Hungary, but it is not precisely defined what danger this poses, the deployment of the army at the border is problematic and problematic. What else can the government do? You may order the security with the police forces on a proposal from the Minister for Defence and Police to be carried out by facilities of high importance for the protection of the country, point (d) The Military National Security Service and the Defence Organisations may step up their investigative, counter-intelligence and sound very nicely. I would have been delighted to see such cyberspace protection forces when they were actually attacking various websites and various government agencies from cyberspace. I have to say that it would, of course, be a great pleasure for me to do this intensively enough, let us say, without triggering a defence emergency, but, and then, point (e) says: "The implementation of the tasks related to NATO's permanent defence plans and, in this context, the introduction of an accelerated decision-making procedure, can be ordered by the government. If a Hungarian citizen today decides to view the tasks related to NATO's Permanent Defence Plans and what he uses: he will enter the Internet into Google, that the tasks related to NATO's Permanent Defence Plans will find nothing, nothing. After all, the Hungarian citizen has the right to know that if there is such a defence emergency, where the Military National Security Service will increase his cyberspace operations, where the government can order the implementation of tasks related to NATO's permanent defence plans, and in this context, it can speed up the decision-making process, what this means. So I think, in the case of a special legal order, accurate, precise wording is very important. What I would like to know from the Minister of State sitting here on behalf of the Government would have been better if the Minister had been here, because I think that he has the greatest competence in these matters, because this is a proposal for a major amendment to the law, which would then be a concrete situation for this defence emergency; and don't tell me that hybrid warfare, because hybrid warfare doesn't require a defence emergency, so in order to prevent hybrid warfare, it doesn't need a defence emergency from the ground up. I need to be able to stop it, but it's not in their interest. But what specific cases can you tell me when this defence emergency can be avoided, and if a Hungarian citizen wants to see what the tasks related to NATO's permanent defence plans are, and what it means in this context is that an accelerated decision-making procedure, where they can be found, would be very reassuring. Because, fellow Members, of course, everyone who says that man is the highest value is right, but we are sitting here in Parliament to create for Hungarian citizens the laws and laws that are fair, transparent and accessible to citizens in matters affecting their lives. I'd like to signal and continue the engagement part. I would also like to inform you that this is not the sentence of an opposition representative, this is not what we have come up with, this is why we need to increase the age limit of military engagement to 50. It's been said before that this is a confession I think is more than that. You lied to us at the open and closed meetings of the Defence and Police Committee, simply lying to us about what was going on with the numbers. They said: everything is very well, the outflow is not a problem; in recent years, the number of Hungarian defences has grown so beautifully that it was a pleasure to watch, and now I read here that there are difficulties in filling peace-time positions, and the extent of outflow has not decreased. Fellow Members! President Kósa talked about the data contained in the discharge law at the police and defence, and I think that it is quite disappointing that laws should be sought by buggering, while this data was at the meeting of the Secretary of State for Public Administration at the Defence Committee. Believe me, it is in our common interest that the uploading of positions in the Hungarian Defence Office, the military organizations, should be in order, because this is how the army can be operated. And I have never once claimed, in recent years, that this problem is just and exclusively a matter of your governance, but it is certain that your activities have increased this number. You are trying to solve the shortage of numbers by simply lying or hiding it at committee meetings. That doesn't make him any more soldiers. Moreover, when the age limit is increased, it is easy for those who are not subject to this rule today to make decisions. My fellow Members, I do not know how old they are, forgive me, and assume that they are all under 50. If it's... [[István Szilárd Németh: I am an old foosball, 55!]] Well, then how well you're holding up, Mr. Secretary; and then nothing is really expensive that you're over 55, but I don't know how old President Kósa is... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. István Szilárd Németh: I think you weren't a soldier and I was a soldier!]] By the way, it doesn't depend on whether there was a soldier or not, it seems, unfortunately, that despite being a former soldier, the lie remains a lie, in his case it is much more serious; it is much more serious, because he was a soldier, a real soldier who served his country for years, for example, when he was a left-wing government. I can't decide if when he wasn't telling the truth, then or now; I sincerely hope that now, now, and at the committee meeting, they're not telling us the truth, because this confession is that there aren't enough soldiers, because that's what it's all about, and it can't be uploaded, it's obviously going against it, and it's an orbital lie compared to what we've been told. So, as far as 50 years are concerned, it's easy to make a decision about this to those who are obviously not subject to this rule today. But that's not the main problem. My fellow Members, I believe that there is a reference to all kinds of international trends. It can be said, and the resolution itself or the legislation says that this would increase the number of military commitments by approximately 850 thousand, because otherwise the life expectancy is increasing and, in fact, the male population is decreasing, and that is why it needs to be increased by ten years. My fellow Members, have you considered the fact that life expectancy is increasing in Hungary today, but how many people over the age of 40 and even much younger have struggled with a very serious illness, very serious physical problems and psychological problems? Have you considered that recruitment is not so successful, and there is a large outflow and little inflow into the Hungarian Defence Service because people do not meet certain expectations there? Please, the army is a dangerous factory, and I don't think all kinds of fools could be trusted to protect the country, although it doesn't always seem to succeed. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] We have also seen this in the Defence Committee, we have also seen it in the management of the defence wallet, but I think that the health status of the Hungarian male population should be taken into account. So you can say, either President Kósa or I don't know who said it, maybe the President didn't say that a 42-year-old man is healthy, and we've seen 20-year-old wreckage, and 70-year-old people who swam through the, I don't know, La Manche channel, but that's not usually typical. [[22.20]] So when we decide or decide, because we, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition, are not going to vote for this, they decide to raise this age limit from 40 to 50, they must have looked at it, or the data were already available, I assume, regarding the state of health. Finally, and that would be my last sentence in this speech: I can still say to you that it is the duty of every Hungarian citizen to protect the country. Don't just belong to those who are resident in Hungary! If we have the right to vote, if we have the right to buy a house with the money of Hungarian taxpayers, then we must also protect our country. Therefore, this regulation must be substantially amended in such a way that it applies to all Hungarian citizens, rights and obligations must be the same. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-198	Thank you, Congresswoman. Does Lajos Kósa wish to comment? [[Lajos Kósa: No.]] I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the possibility of rejoining Secretary István Németh Szilárd.
u2018-11-13-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and this is largely thanks to the Hungarian Defence Forces. In order for the Hungarian Defence Office to continue to fulfil its task and obligation to guarantee the territorial integrity of Hungary, the independence, sovereignty and security of the Hungarian people, this requires, among other things, the adoption of this package of laws. I would also like to stress to you that the points that I have said in the main speech round can only be repeated now, perhaps in a bit of a different structure, how we think, how we can establish a legal environment that ensures that we can go through the program that can guarantee that we can really have a strong military force in the coming period. We are also talking about the legal basis for the defense and military development plan of Zrínyi 2026. When we decide to disintegrate the headquarters of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of Defence so to speak, we define an organizational framework, which, based on very serious studies, research and foreign examples, assumes that in the future we can respond to the security challenges that the Hungarian Defence Office must be able to respond to properly and correctly in such a organisational framework. There are new challenges. Everyone repeated that, by the way. We're talking cyberspace operations, hybrid war, asymmetric operations. This is the defence framework, and you have said so yourself, you are unable to answer that. We must create the legal conditions for this so that we can do this. We need to strengthen our participation in the federal system, strengthen NATO compatibility. That also leads in this direction. That's what we talked about. We have important goals. We have goals such as further strengthening data security and national security. Recently, it was the Member of Parliament who sinned against this. I think that this will not work in the future. [[Márta Demeter: I don't want the theater, Mr. Secretary.]] I believe that it is important to strengthen civil control and to create transparency so that we can help both Parliament and Parliament's commission, so that we can help the elected representatives who control the Ministry of Defence and the defence. These objectives are all served by the adoption of this package of laws and have been defined for these purposes and the resulting tasks as to what will be included in this package of laws. Of course, this can be bullied, contradicted, voted against, announced in advance that whatever happens will not be voted in. This does not show us that you do not agree with the package of laws itself, but the problem is quite simply that you were forced into this part of the horseshoe in April. I see personal frustration here when some people talk about what the new minister is, what the secretary of state is, who is what. So these personal jokes begin. You have very serious frustration because you do not give the positions of secretary of state and minister. That's what I want. Obviously, that's politics, but I think we should talk about it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Jesus Christ!]] We also realized that some speakers from the world of nocical boxes and whiskey cans, coming from the world of autumn speaking, shouted into the ether that it was a lie and a theft. It's absolutely amazing, in my opinion. Yes, I am thinking of Congresswoman Agnes Vadai. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You were still lying!]] He was the Secretary of State of this era. The era when the Hungarian Army was completely bled out [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] They've wiped out the entire army. The thing is, they all show what you think about serving your country. Then we get to the depths where they try to get the Hungarians across the border together again. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No, we want to integrate it!]] the Hungarians of the mother country. By the way, that's the whole point of your criticism is to take this to a very high level. You know exactly how much security is behind this. But I think you have very little interest in what happens to Hungarians across the border, who, by the way, do not live in Hungary today and do not live their daily lives according to Hungarian laws. Then we came to the real excuses. You object to the fact that the Hungarian Defence Forces must pay attention to migration in creating new security. Here is the complete misunderstanding of your criticism of the defence emergency. Several people have said that they fear that it is something like a crisis caused by mass immigration. Yeah, yeah, exactly like that. It provides an appropriate legal basis for a rapid response so that the Government can respond quickly and, by the way, at the same time to the Parliament and the President of the Republic. On the other hand, the fact that we are not experiencing today in Hungary what people had to live for in August, summer, September 2015 is due to the fact that in a legal environment that is appropriate to the crisis caused by mass immigration, the Western Balkans route has been avoided entirely by migrants. I can see that opposition speakers have actually said that they will not vote for this bill, no matter what. So it is clear that you can't be expected to defend your country on this issue either. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Those are big words!]] There's, of course, there's some commentaries I can't talk to, I don't want to get into a fight because he's a national security risk himself. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Márta Demeter: Oh, oh!]] Márta Demeter, who uses the mandate of his representatives and his position as Vice-President of the Commission to obtain certain data and then to disclose them by falsifying them. This, I think... [[Márta Demeter: You take responsibility for every word you say, Mr. Secretary of State.]] I think that such a comment cannot be taken seriously. [[Márta Demeter: In court, too?]] One hundred words end: in the final vote, it will be revealed who the Hungarian people can count on to defend their country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Oh, big words, Mr. Secretary of State. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-13-200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[22.30]] Next up is the 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters. Act and Act XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. a general debate on the draft law amending the law in relation to the over-service until closure. Proposal submitted by the Defence and Police Committee T/3053. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2018-11-13-201	Mr. President. Dear House, The Defence and Police Committee has put forward a very simple proposal, and it has not been the first time. It is about the fact that the European Union has a general employment policy directive, which says that in each country it is necessary to determine what the mandatory working time is for a working day and a week of work, and that the excess work imposed should, as a general rule, be given to workers in free time. Hungary has adopted this basic rule, and accordingly has also regulated the Labour Code. However, there are special employment sectors, special jobs where overwork and overemployment cannot be avoided, and there is not always a way to give out the prescribed overtime to workers in free time by enforcing the principle. Such is the defence and police, and it is clear to the contrary that, for both organisations, due to the nature of the work, there are tasks that need to be carried out and carried out in excess of work. By the way, the scope of the law also applies to workers in the Bv, disaster management and the Parliamentary Guard. We suggest that we have suggested earlier that both the police and the military, so both Hst. Both Hjt and Hjt. In this case, apply the rule, now extending the deadline until 31 December 2022, so that when the magistrate orders excess work, i.e. extra work, over-service, the over-servicer can decide or propose to his superior that he ask for this in spare time or in money. This rule had been passed before Parliament in the previous term, which was presented by the Defence and Police Committee, and it was not submitted by the government, because the government is following the employment policy directive represented by the European Union, and we would also like to follow it, but it is only a specific situation. Therefore, provisionality remains in the regulation, the deadline is exceeded, and the Defence Committee unanimously supported this. I would like to point out that, of course, we do not think that this is a permanent system, that we will have to regulate this issue differently, in part, both Hst. And the HJ. employees of organisations subject to this Regulation should be provided with conditions that would otherwise compensate them for any overwork that may be imposed, adding, of course, that there is no limit to ordering overwork, so there are rules to this too. I think that at one of the negotiations on the next budget, it will be possible to talk about the circumstances under which we think that this regulation can be lifted, because we can provide such wages, conditions and other benefits as well as HJ. It's like Hst. Soldiers, law enforcement staff, emergency services, bvs, parliamentary guards and workers of the statutory services to compensate for them. Dear House, In view of the fact that the committee is unanimously making the proposal to the House, I am asking you to accept the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-202	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask whether, on behalf of the Government, Mr Szilárd Németh wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-13-203	Very briefly. The aim of the bill, as Mr President has said, is that the 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers. Act and Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. In the case of persons subject to law, it shall bring the needs arising in practice in relation to the performance of the service into line with the legislation in relation to the remuneration of the over-service. To this end, the bill reserves until 31 December 2022 the right of professional and contractual members of the defence and of professional law enforcement bodies to continue to request the redemption of the term of the over-service in overtime or in leisure time. Dear fellow Members, In view of the above, the bill sets out rules which are favourable to the military, and therefore the Ministry of Defence supports it, so I ask that you also support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to György Hubay, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-13-205	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! Taking into account that my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, has already presented as rapporteur the 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers. Act and Act XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/3053 on the amendment of Act T/3053 relating to over-service The essential elements of bill No.1, so allow me to briefly explain to you the position of the Fidesz fraction. Perhaps we should start with the fact that the importance and importance of the bill before us should not be judged on the basis of its scale. Although it is a very short bill, which may seem of a technical nature, it is of paramount importance for law enforcement and defence workers fighting daily for the security of our country and for the maintenance of internal order. Hungary has made considerable efforts over the past years to protect our southern border area and also the borders of the Schengen area. This is how we were able to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people and, in part, of European citizens. We all remember that a few years ago, when the current professional border protection system was not yet available, what situations had to be tolerated for both rural and urban populations. Unreliable illegal immigrants have wiped out hundreds of thousands of rural farmers, left behind infectious and wasteful environments, and marched along our motorways and occupied our spaces. It must not be forgotten, if only for a short time, what conditions existed at the Keleti station or on the M1 motorway and on certain points in Budapest. We would still have to suffer this today if the police and defence had not protected Hungary's borders, and Hungary's Government had not acted with lightning speed in the first and unique way in Europe regarding the construction of the border lock. We can't forget that by inciting Ahmed H., who has now been convicted of terrorism, illegal migrants launched a violent attack on Hungary on 16 September 2015. They attacked our police officers and tried to break the state line. I would just like to point out to you that, in parallel with being able to protect Hungary and Europe's borders, internal security has also increased significantly, as the number of crimes in Hungary has fallen to an unprecedented extent compared to 2010. [[22.40]] If you look at the data, you can see that the number of crimes in the public area has decreased by nearly half, and that there has also been a significant increase in investigative effectiveness. At the same time, Hungary has been chosen by the world, so I stress that it is the ninth safest country in the world. What is this if it is not a clear recognition of the sacrifice of our police and defence officers and the proper policy of government migration? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this short detour sufficiently highlights the sacrifice that our police and soldiers do every day in order to protect order, security and Hungary. If the Commission's own motion adopted by a pro-government majority had not been tabled, these people would have lost the opportunity to redeem their overtime in cash after 1 January 2019. In order to deal with this situation immediately, the Defence and Police Committee has decided to submit this bill. The bill solves the problem and allows the data subject to decide, after 1 January 2019, whether he wants to redeem his over-service time by day or money. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Fidesz fraction, it is not a question of giving maximum recognition and support to people who contribute to a peaceful and peaceful life and feel safe on the streets or anywhere in the country. That is precisely why the pro-government majority supported the submission of the bill as soon as possible, and that is why we also provided our support in the adoption of the bill. I trust that it will also be important for the honourable opposition representatives to appreciate the people who are fighting for our country's protection, and with their vote they will support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-13-206	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-13-207	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal, which is here at this late hour in this House, is clear that this opposition's proposal is a very tough violation of the law, and we can support it on the part of the MSZP fraction, because it gives back the possibility of redeeming the over-service in money, the right of the choice concerned, which you would have taken away. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-13-208	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-13-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I can only repeat the words of our fellow Member Ágnes Kunhalmi: this was an opposition proposal. It is also a fact that, in this House, in the last eight years, the opposition's proposals were essentially the most flexible, so we have to admit this, even if we are debating a lot of issues. Of course, this proposal must be supported, even because it was also proposed by the opposition, and it is very right that the government, and in particular the Defence and Police Committee, heard this. We consider that, in principle, this question should be natural. Only today, but also during previous plenary sessions, we are always told by government representatives, undersecretaries of state, about the sacrifice our police and soldiers are offering to protect the country. The only interesting thing is that in everyday life, they don't feel that much respect. So there's always value in words, and there's relatively little in action. And when it comes to the fact that we may not vote in favour of a defence proposal that creates abusive systems of politics, then it is necessary for the governing forces to accept that we are protecting the people. However, only today our fellow Member Hubay, Mr Secretary of State, President of the Commission, said how safe the country is. If the country is safe, there is no need to put forward legislation that policy can abuse. Because if our country is safe, there's no need to introduce new systems. The only thing that needs to be focused on is that those working in this system in the field of law enforcement and defence receive a level of wage that doesn't even have to talk about overtime. If a country is not the most important people who protect our lives, who spend their whole lives putting their own lives at risk at any moment, if they do not earn the most in the public service, then any statement of what the opposition is voting for and what it is not is very deceitful. It's very deceiving. Those involved in law enforcement and defence would never have asked, never would have mentioned, but please, the overtime to be taken out in extra time, because the day is only 24 hours, and there will be no time before I can take out the overwork I'm over. I can only get it in cash, but maybe he wouldn't have told me about the money, or even told me that I'd be serving 24 hours a day, if I had at least the kind of remuneration he deserves in a country of defence, a member of defense, a soldier. For the future, I ask the honourable government representatives and various government officials not to value these people in the first place, but to pay remuneration in their bank accounts on the last day of the month, so that, say, not to wait for a border for extra service, or, say, there are so many sick soldiers that they need to be replaced and have overtime. Or the police should not be pleased that if there is a protest, and if possible, it should start at 4:00 p.m. Friday afternoon and end no later than 7:00 a.m. on Monday morning, because that's when you get overtime money, and then you can bring home to your family as much money as is worthy of such a man. I just want to ask you to make these people feel in their everyday lives that you are so worried about them. Because if you think you're so worried about them, then the opposition in these lines, believe me, will never speak on these matters. Of course, we support the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-210	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-13-211	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, President Lajos Kósa and Congressman Hubay seem not to have been at the same committee meeting. President Lajos Kósa very rightly said that the Parliament's Defence Committee unanimously supported this proposal. He supported it because it was what my other opposition fellow Members and Congressman Kósa have already said that there is a problem. This problem was already here in the summer before Parliament, then, of course, we were called off that it was not a problem, but it turned out that the issue of overtime was a problem after all. Today, in the case of overtime for armed and law enforcement agencies, you can choose two ways, which is what several Members have spoken about: either the so-called freedom redemption or the monetary benefit. Of course, we have found that they prefer the cash benefits, because they need additional payment supplements in addition to their salaries, even because the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior said at the last meeting of the Commission that, indeed, the matter of the salary system will have to be taken up again, and that the competitive advantage that had previously been in terms of either the salary of the armed and law enforcement workers has changed in recent years. Both the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and the Deputy Secretary of State said that there was a crumbling in this. So it is no coincidence that both soldiers and policemen would prefer to use the possibility of redemption in money. In addition, my fellow Members and colleagues who have studied know that if the government forced everyone to change their freedom, it would be possible to close the army and the police, because there are not enough soldiers and policemen in the world to deliver the service in the event of freedom redemption. My fellow Member, Kósa, spoke about the EU directive, which really exists. At a committee meeting, I proposed that it would be worth considering this whole EU directive, especially with regard to special labour law, because it is a special labour law relationship, because the country must be protected at night, day and weekend, and there are also a few other occupations where I can say that work does not last from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., but is longer than that, so it would be worth reconsidering. [[22.50]] We look at this proposal once again to Mr Hubay that this was a joint proposal. Let us at least agree that this was a joint proposal, opposition and pro-government. And it is true that we learned in the previous bill that we are a bit of a traitor, but now we will be good girls and good guys, because we support this proposal, because it is a proposal about the man, about the soldier, about the policeman, about the people who risk their lives every day to make sure that everything is okay. Because it's not up to you, it's up to them, it's up to their work. It's extremely important to understand that otherwise it doesn't matter who suggested it. What you'll forgive me for using this term in the beginning of five minutes is confused about the crisis caused by mass immigration, it has nothing to do with this bill. It's not about that. It's about when the district commissioner has to go out at night and it's about when the soldier has to go out at night because there's a problem, and there's got to be a soldier, a cop, a bv, a parliamentary guard, at the end of the day when he's on the count, and it turns out he's been working a lot, then he's got to have a choice. You said in the original proposal that you could only take a leave of absence. We are obviously suggesting that there was someone who submitted these proposals in writing so that they could have a choice to redeem them in money. It is clear from the legislation and I have also drawn attention to this in the Defence Committee that this regulation is valid again until 31 December 2022. Once again, this transitional regulation could be resolved on the basis of the EU directive. But I think that either what the Ministry of Interior spoke about at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, and obviously at some point the Ministry of Defence will talk about the fact that the wages of armed and police workers, the salary system, will be re-examined, competitive, because today it has lost the competitive edge of what was previously in these increases in salaries, and obviously it will still have to be compensated for overtime in some way, because we cannot maintain such an army, but especially such a police force, we simply do not have the financial opportunity, we do not have the means, we do not have the opportunity to choose from which to replace all overtime. I propose that we view this bill as a temporary regulation supported by the whole Parliament, because we want this issue to be resolved permanently in some way. Or that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, says that it amends or finds the legal formula of the EU directive, which applies to the special employment relationship, which is a special employment relationship in the sense that working time is not fixed, or that it is not settled temporarily, but that we simply say that this issue is then settled in national jurisdiction. Because if there is a national case, and you love it, and I sincerely believe that you support it, it is for those who work with armed and law enforcement agencies and perform their vocations that we give you this freedom of choice so that they can redeem overtime in money. I was particularly pleased that a very consensual proposal on this matter could be made in the Defence and Police Committee. Trust me, it wasn't about who filed it. Of course, we note that the text of the pro-government representatives should be presented. But that's irrelevant from that point of view. It's all about the results. We're gonna be sitting here in two weeks, and even if we don't have any other bill, but we're all gonna vote for this bill, because it's about the soldier, the policeman, the parliamentary guard, the bv and every man with a gun and law enforcement service. I think it's a very important thing. patriotism, responsibility for others, is reflected in such legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-212	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-11-13-213	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. From the background of the situation, it is worth noting that it is clear that both the functioning of law enforcement agencies and the operationality of the Hungarian Defence Forces are affected by the shortage of thousands that have developed in recent years. Following data requests and written questions, it became clear from the answers that 10-15 million overtime, overwork and overwork are performed by both the police forces and the Hungarian Army. Therefore, it would have been extremely difficult for the law to remain as it is currently in force, that as of 1 January 2019 it would not be possible to redeem excess service in money, and from then on it could have been issued only and only in freedom. This would have clearly jeopardized the functioning of law enforcement agencies and the Hungarian Defence Forces, as when this was made public in the case of law enforcement agencies, it was followed by quite a social echo, and it was clear that very many would have left the police force. Unfortunately, this would have been no different than the Hungarian Defence Office if there was no further possibility of paying for the over-service. And the other is that because of the huge shortage of numbers, it is impossible only to give up this overwork and over-service in freedom, because there are not enough soldiers, there are not enough policemen, there are not enough people in the prison system to provide continuous service and work for the security of the country. So we had to take action in any way. And it was no accident that my fellow Members and I presented this proposal at the end of August. And, yes, I am very pleased that there is finally a consensus on something, and that there has been a meaningful discussion about it on the Defence and Police Committee. I really think it's a very good example of how to do that. I would hope, by the way, that the national defence area will be taken seriously as many times as possible. This is a positive example that needs to be highlighted. In essence, the Defence and Police Committee was able to establish a literal consensus and each Member supported this proposal. And it really doesn't matter if it comes to Parliament as a motion for self-representation, as a Commission amendment or in any other way. I think it is no question that we all need to support this, and it is natural that we too will vote in favour, and that LMP will also vote in favour of this proposal. I would ask all government representatives to vote in favour of this. I wanted to mention the date 2022, as we indicated in the original proposal the date 2022. There was no other reason than the fact that we really need a fire extinguisher quickly. However, it is also true that, by 2022 at the latest, a new system of promotion and salaries should be developed with a meaningful dialogue, meaningful professional and political consultation and involvement of stakeholders, giving real appreciation, which can provide competitive salaries for the stock. On several occasions we indicated that these salaries would have to be set at HUF 60,000 in order to be competitive, and a system of advancement that includes a new type of early retirement pension scheme, a system of advancement that encourages as long as possible service. After all, it is clearly in the interest of those who serve in the Hungarian Defence Corps to have the knowledge of those people there as long as possible and to be able to pass on the experience to young people, thus encouraging them to serve as long as possible. But, of course, it is necessary to compensate for the extreme stress that our soldiers are exposed to. So I am very pleased that although it is extremely rare, this is a positive example of how consensus could be made on this issue. Thank you.
u2018-11-13-214	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. [[23.00]]
u2018-11-13-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to say that the Ministry of the Interior supports the bill. Thank you.
u2018-11-13-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-11-13-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I pressed a two-minute button because there are two very powerful fellow Members in this Chamber, Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence and Police Commission, and Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Szilárd Németh State Secretary T/3291. At the end of the proposal, in his summary reply, he said that he saw that we did not represent the people and that we did not want to vote in favour of this proposal. But based on this proposal, which creates the possibility of paying overtime in cash or choosing, what do we see? That there was a fair dialogue on the committee. And I would like to ask you, as two high-ranking Members in Fidesz, to look back a long time ago, to give us the opportunity to discuss the terms of this previous bill in committee. Indeed, it is about four or five sentences that should be left out of it, and the goal remains the same, but we can say that this was created by consensus, and we do not have to say that, please, we do not vote for it because we do not want it to include new legal institutions and rules that the people cannot calculate and which can be turned against the people at any time. So I ask you, with great respect, in the coming weeks, because this law does not need to be rushed, it is not today, not tomorrow; it may be sometime in the near future, but today we have time to talk about it, to discuss the few not good rules, and then let us come here to this House one week and vote by up to a hundred percent. I ask you very much to help us in this, not us, but the Hungarian people. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to comment on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. You have the floor.
u2018-11-13-219	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal is not a opposition proposal or a pro-government proposal, because it is the proposal of the Hungarian Parliament's Defence and Police Committee. It's a body. The Defence Committee is not an opposition or a pro-government organisation. Therefore, the comments that this is an opposition proposal are just as pointless as if someone were to claim that this is a pro-government proposal. For the sake of reality and historical fidelity, the question of the need to settle this during this autumn's session has already been raised in the summer, otherwise it may be difficult for law enforcement and defence organisations to deal with. Two of our fellow Members have submitted proposals on this subject, Márta Demeter and Tamás Harangozó. Both proposals were a problem. One of the references from Demeter Márta's was missing, and it was therefore not marked which part of the law was replaced by the amendment it had tabled. This seems to be a legal problem, but in this sense it could not have produced legal effects. From the proposal submitted by Tamás Harangozó, Hjt. the organisations covered by it were completely absent, so he is only the Hst. Wanted to amend the rules for organisations covered by this Regulation. It is not possible to say on either of these proposals that it is because Members would not have been able to do so or because they had bad intentions. Tamás Bellozó indicated that the Hst. This issue is regulated differently than the Hjt. In Hjt, when the warden orders the superior to overservice, the soldier who has performed the overservice, what he asks for, free time or redemption of money, but he can only make a suggestion, and his commander has to ask his opinion, but the commander actually makes the decision. This is not the case in Hst, because there the person can make a meaningful decision, and then there is the law, whether he is a police officer or a disaster worker, whether he is a prison worker, a member of the parliamentary guard or a member of the relevant services. That's why the bellman chose the two. When the MEPs submitted the proposals, we decided not to take their proposals into consideration, but to signal that there would be no such debate, there is agreement in principle here, the Defence Committee will draw up the proposal, and we have incorporated both of them in order to get them in front of Parliament. It is a pity that my colleague Agnes Kunhalmi left because I wanted him not to remain mistaken, but to make it clear that this is not a opposition proposal and not a pro-government proposal. With regard to what has been said in this debate, I would just like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Varga-Damm, that the employment policy directive of the European Union and its effectiveness are completely independent of the size of the salary. So it is a mistake to say that if we raise the salary of soldiers or policemen, then everyone will ask for freedom of movement, because the directive does not make this principle dependent on the size of the salary, but says that no matter how much it pays, it must be issued on leave, because it essentially protects daily and weekly working time in that country on the basis of the labour code and its spirit. The proposal that has been said by several people, namely, that employment and payment conditions should be granted to Hst. And the Hjt. people who are subject to this profession, so that they can choose this occupation in the knowledge that, on the other hand, there is overwork within a regulated framework. Here's the question, and you can solve this issue permanently, and you don't have to put temporary rules into the two laws, which are otherwise disturbing, because in each cycle you will have to deal with it. We will solve it, because there was consensus in the previous period, and I was the head of the Defence and Police Committee, and the vast majority of those involved in this debate were in the same position, so there was no discussion in principle that the changes needed to be made in Hjt. and in Hst., which would allow this to happen at that time. This is how it normally works anyway, and then we can go to the Union, and we say that there are special employment branches, such as doctors, such as those working in utility services, and the rest, and such, of course, police and Hst. And the Hjt. People under it, too. What is still to be said is that my fellow Member of Vada quoted it precisely that in the previous term, when the Hungarian Parliament decided to introduce career models in these sectors in fiscal laws and in Hjt., in Hszt., it was indeed a competitive payment scheme and a career model. The performance of the Hungarian economy and the net wage outflow of more than 10 per cent in the competitive sector, which has now been going back several years, have created the situation that although even in the case of the career model, Hst. Those who are under it this year have also raised their salary to the soldiers, and so to speak, the career model is running out, and everyone is right about that, yes, it is running out now, and it is old. He's lost his competitiveness. In this sense, of course, in this debate, Members often use a wording that is difficult to interpret, since, let's say, in the case of defence, the shortage of numbers is a virtual issue, because the Hungarian Parliament does not determine how much the number of defences should be, but what the maximum is. If the task to be performed by the military can be carried out at a smaller number, it does not need to be maximized. The situation is more complicated than the police, because there are precise numbers at the duty post, but it is not determined by Parliament, but by the annual budget law and the wallet, but no one wants to take it to the point that it is difficult to fill the stock to the desired level. That's why I'm telling you that the 8,000 headcount deficit in the case of the military cannot be interpreted that way. However, what you can quote exactly is this. How this problem is, it was said at the committee meeting that if we look at the numbers without accurate data, there is, of course, fluctuations in organisations of this kind. It's in every organization, so it's not even a question. [[23.10]] In normal life, when there are no tensions, it is said that both wallets are led to such 1-2-3 percent fluctuations in these organisms, and the level of fluctuations has remained at the same level for a long time, so there are no trends. Now the situation is that it is noticeable that this desirable 1-2-3 percent went above 5 percent and there is a trend, so the rate of fluctuations is increasing. So the thing is, weirdly, there are more people in the Army now than in the previous period, so in that sense we could say that, please, there is no problem, as the number of defences has increased. So, compared to the previous period, there are now more people working in it. Therefore, it cannot be said that he is unattractive, because there are more in him. More people came in than they left. Yes, but if we look at the turnover figures, at least that's what the Secretary of State said, but it doesn't have to calm us down, because at the same time, when we look at the trend of fluctuations, it's clear that there's a lot more people left the army than would be ideal, and that's a net loss in energy and resources, because those who left the army were trained soldiers. Those who come in are rookies, and there's a skill or skill, trained people lost either by the police or by the defense. This must therefore be addressed, and of course we know it, because the Minister Gulyás in the Government Info also said that the defence cabinet will deal with this issue, and it will come before Parliament, obviously after this is a net budgetary issue, in the Finance Act. I am pleased, and thank you very much for your cooperation, that there is a consensual proposal in front of this House, I can safely say that in this cycle this may be the first... [[Márta Demeter: Noooem...]] Now I need to think about which one might have been, which was a consensual suggestion, which, with a joint proposal... I think it's a first. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The first.]] But then thank you very much for your support, and I am pleased that the Defence Committee has been able to submit a consensual proposal to this House. I need your support.
u2018-11-13-220	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the debate on today's agenda, and now we are going to have speeches after the agenda. First of all, after the agenda, Ms Andrea Varga-Damm came forward with the title "Our Nation" in her language. You have the floor.
u2018-11-13-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We started the day refreshingly, because we started with the commemoration of the day of the Hungarian language, and now, I hope, we finish it refreshingly. Today is the day of Hungarian language, which, we believe, is the intellectual-cultural heritage of the Hungarian people and a serious factor that is the basis of our national identity. On 23 April 2009 we celebrated the Hungarian language day for the first time, because on 6 December 2008 the Association of Hungarian Mother Language Nurses decided that the IX. at the inaugural congress that 23 April was voted the day of the Hungarian language, because on this day in 2008, the museum of the Hungarian language opened its doors on Széphalmon, next to the mausoleum of Ferenc Kazinczy. Then, on 26 September 2011, this government presented its proposal to the Parliament to declare 13 November as the day of the Hungarian language, considering that the year 1844 was II. Law declared the Hungarian language to be a state language on that day. The Hungarian language is the top product of human logic said Ove Bergund Swedish translator. Jacob Grimm, who also translated Hungarian, said that the logical and perfect structure of the Hungarian language surpasses all other languages. John Bowring, published in 1830, said that this language is the oldest and brightest memory of national independence and spiritual independence; he who deciphers a divine secret. Why do we have to defend our language today? One of the results of the information society is that language is simplified, abbreviations prevail, synonyms are abandoned. It is a cause for concern that foreign language foreign language words are no longer translated, they are not transformed in the form of a Hungarian language, but are used in everyday life with the foreign sound, mixed with the words of the Hungarian language. This is now taking such a measure that slowly the words of the Hungarian language are hardly found in the texts of everyday simple speech. Our synonym dictionary contains 80 600 words. Such a fantastically rich language, which is indeed now the only pillar of our almost national identity, since it is experiencing a very deficiting period of patriotism and national consciousness in our society, not only cannot be lost, but it must be promoted in our society as much as possible to innovate, protect and cultivate it. I'd just like to give you an example of our nice word. Synonyms: picturesque, majestic, sublime, gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous, luxurious, aesthetic, tasteful, tasteful, attractive, attractive, charming, beautiful, gorgeous, amazing, amazing, wonderful, magical, irresistible, decorating, eloquent, gorgeous, gorgeous, beautiful, beautiful, charming, spectacular, gorgeous, beautiful, attractive, attractive, impressive, fabulous, charming, captivating, captivating, beautiful, beautiful, fabulous, gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, fabulous. That's 47 synonyms of our "nice" word. So what we remember today, and we have to take into account in our daily lives, is that we take great care of this fantastic language, so that we can preserve the wealth of our language for the future generation, and keep the foundation of our national identity, our spiritual heritage as our most wonderful tool for the future generation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-222	Thank you, Congresswoman. To speak after the next agenda, Mr Péter Ungár spoke with the title 7 "The Queen of the West." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to say again about the problems of Szombathely, and I would like to say that neither Csaba Hende, elected individual representative of Szombathely, raises his voice in the Parliament. The fact is, and I have already mentioned it here in the House walls, that the problem of the Zanati Road Falco plant has caused very serious problems for residents since 2005, the pollution of air is very high, there is noise pollution, and this factory has caused public health problems that we do not know the exact proportion of today, we do not know how much more asthmatic diseases are, especially in children in this area because this factory emits dust and other pollutants that are harmful to children's development. This is an old problem, an old problem, but it shows very much that Fidesz is only fighting verbally against multinational companies. We do not know exactly what the ownership of the Falco plant is at present, it is a factory owned by offshore companies, yet so far both the management and the state have done everything they can to submit to this factory, even though the ownership of this factory has not been clarified. The latest news is that the Falco factory has announced that it wants further expansion. This is, of course, a serious problem for residents, and the residents have therefore submitted a proposal to the general assembly that would prohibit the expansion of the factory. At the same time, the factory itself submitted an amendment that would allow the factory to expand in this part of town and acquire additional areas. The fact is that that bold decision was made here, and I could recall in the Chamber that both proposals were rejected at the same time by the Assembly. The fact is, they should have made a decision here that the factory could continue to expand, that there would be further conversions, that this concentration of pollutants or dust in the air, or that it would have been decided to ban residents, that decision should have been taken. [[23.20]] The specific point is that the Pick site should have been transferred from a mixed-use area to a small-town residential area, and the factory, in turn, wanted them to remain in a mixed area and to change transport areas to private roads. This also raises problems that may lead to a slightly wider amount of public infrastructure and the amount of state taxpayers' invested money that they can provide to an offshore company, what is the limit until both the city leadership led by Tivadar Puskás and the Hungarian state is able to meet this factory. Of course, we are aware that this factory creates jobs in the city. It would be interesting to calculate, say, how much more funding is given to an offshore factory than a local small and medium-sized enterprise, and how often the city's management jumps every snap into a small and medium-sized enterprise in the same town to change ratings to turn roads into private roads. So here's the thing: because they think it's going to make a profit for them, they're doing everything they can to make sure that the word of the people doesn't prevail, but the word of the factory. If Csaba Hende were here but he wasn't, he would say that he had started a fight against the factory, and one of the chimneys was closed, and anyway, once in the election campaign, when he felt that this was the time, at any other time, he spoke about this matter. The fact is that although this speech was very important because it was not followed by concrete action, Csaba Hende's concern about this matter has somehow stopped again. It has stopped, even though the factory is there, it is also causing problems for the residents, and it is trying to expand in the same way, so it is trying to increase this problem. So for the second time in the record, I'm sure you'll read that this courage you've had in the election campaign continues and stands up for the people of Saturday, working for them, not for an offshore factory. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-13-224	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Gergely Farkas asked to speak after the last agenda: he remembered the 100th anniversary of their independence with the title of our Polish brothers. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-13-225	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A hundred years ago, on 11 November 1918, Poland became an independent state again after 123 years, and I believe that it is important to commemorate this anniversary in the Hungarian Parliament, which is the biggest celebration of our Polish friends. I mentioned a thousand years of historical friendship, and it is not a poetic exaggeration, but it is based on facts, because from the Arpadian era to today, there are thousands of common things that connect the two nations. Many of our rulers, or even famous historical figures, who had Polish ancestors, were joint rulers, from Lajos Nagy through István Báthory, there were many historical events when we helped each other, they found refuge in each other's country, or the two nations helped each other in connection with 48 or 56. So it's not just a symbolic thing at all, it's based on facts. And not only do we have a common past, but there are many challenges in the present that are common to the two nations. Both countries suffer from the fact that a significant part of their society has gone abroad under duress, so it is very important to have a common problem, for example, that the wage catch-up, which Jobbik has set on the flag of our Polish allies, is the achievement of the Wages Union, so that we can meet Western European standards in prices. For example, a common problem with Brexit is the fate of the Hungarians living there or of the Poles, so that there are no second-rate citizens, a common problem and a common task to protect the Christian Europe from migration. So there are a number of points in which we have to work together today. As a result of all this common past and our common affairs, our current common affairs, Jobbik and Jobbik's youth departments have been organizing a trip to Poland on November 11 for seven years now, and this year we participated in these events with a very nice number of delegations, which took place this weekend. István Szávay and my fellow Member Tamás Pintér and Ádám Mirkóczki attended this tour with my fellow Members and dozens of youth students and Jobbik members, during which on Saturday we organized a memorial with our Polish ally, Ruch Narodowy, wreathing the statue of Roman Dmowski, and the next day we took part in the fantastic Polish independence procession. This year's tournament was attended by 250,000 Polish patriots, i.e. a quarter of a million Polish patriots, and fortunately we, Hungarians, including delegations from other countries, were there, and everything we experienced there is difficult to express in words. It is difficult to explain how it felt when we appeared there, I say once again, between 250 thousand Polish patriots with our Hungarian flags and our Molino for this occasion, which was written in Polish and Hungarian in Molinón: thousands of years of friendship, hundreds of years of independence, both of them last forever! When our Polish friends read this, it is difficult to say the feeling that they expressed to us there as a sign of their thanks. They applauded us, and we chanted it together like a, ria, ria, Hungária! They came to thank us for being there, present and participating in their national holiday. So the love that came from them is really, I think it was a very important memory for everyone here. That's why we were there, and really what we saw there was 250,000 people, from the smallest to the greatest, it was all very, very memorable to us. As an eternal experience for me, as six little children, a little girl, carried a stretched Polish flag, or a couple of feet away, an old couple walked in each other's arms. So we saw a very positive example of Polish patriotism here, and it really was a great experience to be there with our Polish brothers on this march. So I trust, based on this experience, that this friendship will not only be a thing of the past, but we can renew it from time to time, we can help each other with our common affairs. I would also like to ask our Hungarian and Polish brothers and sisters to cultivate this very precious relationship, this very valuable friendship, and I would like to conclude my speech once again with what we have written for the Molino: centuries of independence, thousands of friendships, both of them forever! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-13-226	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
