u2018-11-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Parliament, The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of a new Secretary of State to the Parliament. [[Gergely Harvesto: Finally!]] I would ask Mr László Földi to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2018-11-14-1	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On 13 November 2018, Gábor Gion was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Budapest, 12 November 2018 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2018-11-14-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, A joint general discussion of the bill on administrative courts and the bill on the entry into force of the law on administrative courts and certain transitional rules will follow. The government referrals are T/3353. and T/3354. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister of Justice László Trócsányi, the author of the bill. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-14-3	Mr President, Dear House, I think I should start by saying that we are part of an event of great importance in the history of our country's law. I propose a legal settlement on behalf of the government of one of the debts of the change of regime, or I might as well call your stepchild. In 1989-1990, there were many of us who believed that there was a need to restore an independent administrative court separated from ordinary courts and terminated in the years of communism. However, this was not done for various reasons, and at that time the political mainstream focused only on the birth of the Constitutional Court. The year 1991 XXXVI. The Preamble of the Act, which provided for the extension of the judicial review of administrative decisions, stated as follows:. Parliament constitutes the following law until the full establishment of the administrative court. This law was not long-lived, and the question of administrative justice was forgotten in the coming decades. By the way, the cited turn was very similar to the clause contained in the preamble to the Constitution of 1989, which laid down the text of Hungary's constitution until the adoption of the new constitution, with which the legislator wished to draft a message of temporaryity in 1991. We are now reaching the end of the full creation of autonomous administrative justice by adopting the legislative proposals that are the subject of a general debate. With almost 30 years late, we will set up an administrative judicial system, which was abolished almost seventy years ago and which is separate from the ordinary court, with a guarantee of the rule of law. Given that the adoption of this law is given special attention both in Hungary and abroad, I would like to present the process that preceded the general debate that has just begun. As a candidate for the Minister of Justice, I announced in May 2014 at my hearing with the Judicial Committee that I wanted to put the issue of administrative justice on the agenda. At the same time as the development of civil procedure, it was also an unavoidable question of how to regulate administrative litigation. On 30 June 2014, I received the expert paper on the reform of the civil procedure, which was prepared by the expert working group led by Professor János Németh. In this material, there is already a legitimate question to be decided as to whether administrative proceedings separated from civil order and related independent administrative judicial bodies should be taken into account. The expert material entrusted this question to the Minister of Justice and the Government. During my more than 30 years of personal and scientific commitment to the subject, I have always taken the same position; namely, that the independence of the administrative judicial system must be restored, taking into account the honour of administrative jurisdiction and the results of international examples and comparative law. As Minister of Justice from the beginning of the previous government cycle, I have made it clear in all my statements concerning administrative jurisdiction, so I cannot be accused of having been brought before this House by some current political suggestion. The two today's legislative proposals were directly preceded by the adoption of Act I of 2017 on Administrative Procedure, which, for the first time in Hungary's history, defined the scope of administrative jurisdiction with the so-called general clause, i.e. the introduction of the concept of administrative dispute. This in itself was a huge weapon, as now all acts of public administration that trigger legal effects can be challenged before the court. It was incomprehensible to me, and I still do not understand why the honourable opposition representatives did not vote in favour of this law of its kind. However, the administrative order also contains very forward-looking solutions in the international context. I must add that we wanted to create the autonomy of administrative justice at the time, but we did not receive the necessary support. However, the results of the parliamentary elections in 2018 allow us to complete the work started and to establish an autonomous administrative judicial system, organised and separate from ordinary courts. I know that you are among the Members of this House, who have already received this bill with suspicion. My job right now is to try to deal with your fears, even if I'm sure I don't stand a chance. The government and the judicial government are often accused of being lost in the past. I believe that the past must be respected not for itself, but for our noble traditions that point to the future and that bear a message for the future. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that administrative justice was abolished by the Communist regime in 1949. Totalitarianism, so-called popular democracy, could not tolerate the existence of independent institutions protecting the rule of law. At the same time, administrative courts are still a thriving institution in much of Europe. The current legislative proposals therefore aim to return to the European mainstream, to return to the ambitions expressed in our law adopted in 1896. The scientific foundation for independent administrative justice is not new in our country. At the beginning of my scientific career, back in the '80s, I began to deal with the subject, when it was possible for the first time that the state administration had to rule the law. I learned about this from such great things as Géza Kilényi or Attila Attila Rácz, who could not doubt his scientific commitment, they both called for separate, independent administrative justice. [[9.10]] During the writing of my Candidate treatise on administrative justice, I was able to rediscover spiritual wellheads such as Elek Boér, János Martonyi Sr. or József Szabó, who were up to date in several languages from the international literature and practice of administrative justice. But let us, after the past, talk about the present and how the two legislative proposals that are currently in front of you have been made. Lawyers with outstanding knowledge and credibility have worked on the bill before you. I am proud that scientists who have accepted my invitation to participate in the expert committee preparing codification, such as György Kiss, academic or István Stipta, professor of legal history, is an excellent expert on the subject. Besides them, there have been people on this committee who would not be willing to jeopardize their professional and human credibility by working blindly, serving party points. The scientific committee I set up was half scientific and half representatives of judges. What surprises me is that despite the fact that the list of experts has been immediately published, how many times I have received information in the public interest about the members of the committee. Each time, I replied that it was unchanged, and that the list of people I work with has been present since day one. I should also mention Mr Péter Hajnal, Chairman of the Association of Administrative Judges and Mr Kálmán Ferka, Chairman of the Council of the Curia, who participated in the work of the expert committee as a member of the Bureau of the Association. International conferences were held, among other things:, The constitutional responsibility of the executive authority and the current challenges of judicial power in the 21st century. C.E. I said all of this only because I wanted to say that the preparation of this bill was preceded by enormous work, and those who participated in it were excellent experts, judges, people with university backgrounds. I also asked the Venice Commission for its opinion on the two legislative proposals before the Parliament in order to consider them before the draft law enters into force in 2020. I stand at the heart of the panel's possible criticism, since we have made a broad comparison of the draft with international law, and we have sought to adopt best practices. In light of this, we can also address the concern that creating a separate court is harmful, or at least unnecessary, because administrative disputes should be decided by the ordinary courts. The examples show that in most EU Member States there are separate courts in these cases. Dear House, Allow me to talk about the most important elements of the legislative proposals discussed below. The importance of the judge's role in justice is highlighted by the fact that, in contrast to many European languages, the court is the name of the judge. With this special attention, let us first review the rules on judges of the new administrative court organisation. Article 26 (1) of the Fundamental Law provides that judges are independent and are subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in their judicial activities. Judges may be removed from office only for reasons and in accordance with the procedure laid down by a cardinal law. Judges shall not be members of a party or engage in political activities. The importance and warranty of these provisions cannot be overestimated, since they define the most important elements of judicial status, which, in addition to the declaration of judicial independence, include their constitutional safeguards. And judicial independence, as I have said for a long time, and most recently when discussing the proposal for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, is a standing star of democracy, a constitutional principle and value which is a key element in itself. It is also worth drawing attention to the fact that, under the cited basic rule of law, the judicial status is uniform: it does not make any distinction and cannot distinguish between a normal court judge and an administrative judge in a rule of law. In the expert committee there was a lively debate on a number of issues, but there was also the broadest consensus on the unity of judicial status. Therefore, the bill on administrative courts also explicitly states, as a guarantee clause, that the administrative judge is a member of the single judiciary. This means not only that there is no difference between judges of ordinary courts and administrative judges in terms of their independence and their guarantees, but also that judicial status is subject to a fundamentally uniform set of rules, which, in addition to the Fundamental Law, are governed primarily by the law on the status of judges. Thus, the administrative judge is also subject to all the principles and specific rules which are governed by other laws and from which the proposed law is not different. Accordingly, the principle of balancing the independence of the administrative judge is that it will continue its judicial activities as a member of an organisation. This balancing role manifests itself in the judgment of a judge in a multi-level organization, acting within the framework of social justice in cases determined by law, and deciding subject to a system of review of decisions determined by law. A further fundamental element is that the judge is performing a service, i.e. the public judicial task of the State, providing a basically high level of public service with his judicial activity. The judges of the administrative courts are accordingly appointed by the President of the Republic from among the qualified Hungarian citizens with legal qualifications who fulfil the conditions. There is no difference in administrative jurisdiction, neither in remuneration nor in the specific legal guarantees of judicial independence, nor in the terms of termination of the mandate. The bill on administrative courts only provides for different additional provisions or additional requirements justified by the particularities of administrative jurisdiction. In any case, however, the aim is to have or obtain administrative knowledge and thereby to increase the level of administrative jurisdiction. 122 years ago, in the Parliamentary debate of the Act on Administrative Court in 1896, Károly Hieronymi explained:, If we acknowledge that administrative knowledge is necessary for the members of the court, then we cannot take the members of the Court of First Instance from another place than from the administrative staff only, because only the administrative staff is in a position to learn administrative questions practically from life. At the same time, he also added:, It is natural that the best elements of the current administrative officer's faculty are applied to the administrative judicial position. Does anyone who knows our affairs believe that the gaps that would be caused by our officials in our arms can be replaced? ! " It can therefore be seen that one of the key issues in the history of Hungarian administrative justice is the provision of administrative knowledge. However, the bill on administrative courts does not share the previously cited position on the composition of the judiciary. Moreover, Article 5 of the Act on the Hungarian Royal Administrative Court. It also does not determine the gold of those with judicial and administrative experience, as is the case in many countries. Instead, it creates equal opportunities between court and non-court applicants. Not only my conviction, but also the position of the Committee of Experts was unanimous in the fact that administrative experience in administrative judicial proceedings is not a disadvantage, but it is particularly capable of raising the level of judgment. Similarly, it is appropriate to ensure a much wider scope for German legislation than is currently the case that administrative judges should be able to obtain administrative experience in other public bodies only at their request as so-called subordinate judges. [[9.20]] I'd like to point out that there are still judges in the Ministry of Justice. As important as administrative knowledge, experience in administrative justice is at least as valuable as judicial experience. I must point out that everyone who judges an administrative case will be taken over by the new court organisation. No one loses their position as judge. The bill on transitional rules therefore ensures that, at the request of at least half of the Judges who have completed at least half of their term of office in administrative and labour matters, they become members of the Administrative Court by virtue of the law of a separate application or indiscriminately. He is not telling the truth, who claims that the current judges would be chosen by the government or the Minister of Justice. The truth is, on the other hand, that it is entirely up to the choice of the judges, court secretaries and authors concerned to decide which court organisation they intend to pursue their vocation after 1 January 2020. For my part, I regularly meet with administrative judges, the Association of Administrative Judges regularly organises conferences, and I keep reporting on the course of legislation, and I am almost certain that all judges will request you to join the new organization. So if you're a judge, you stay a judge. The Minister of Justice shall have one and all administrative task in relation to the Judges who have made the declaration: he shall assign the Judge who has Judged at the Administrative and Labour Court to the Administrative Tribunal whose jurisdiction under the Law on Administrative Courts includes the jurisdiction of the court of the place of employment of the Judge. The judges of the Metropolitan Tribunal may choose which administrative court they wish to be transferred to, and the members of the Curia's Administrative and Labour College may also decide that they wish to be transferred to the Administrative Court or to an Administrative Tribunal. The bill on transitional rules also states that the judge entitled to make a declaration shall be entitled to his previous judicial remuneration in the ordinary court organisation or in the administrative court body, depending on his position, from the date of entry into force of the law on administrative courts, unless he would be entitled to higher remuneration. In addition, on the day before the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts, a judge with a mandate as President of the Chamber shall be appointed as President of the Chamber in both courts without a tender from the date of entry into force of the law. In view of the fact that the number of judges will decrease as a result of the termination of administrative and labour courts, the term of office of the Presidents and their alternates, as well as the term of office of the college heads and their alternates, should be terminated, but should be entitled to remuneration in accordance with their previous mandate as head of the court until the date of expiry of their original term of office. This regulation also complies with the requirements of Strasbourg. The foregoing, therefore, provide far-reaching assurance, I repeat, that anyone who is a judge will remain a judge and may, of his own free will, decide on the possibility of choosing the same terms and conditions as to which court body he intends to pursue his case-law. This regulation is considered appropriate not only by the government but also by the Expert Committee and the Association of Hungarian Administrative Judges. I must also mention the administration of administrative courts. Under Article 25 of the Fundamental Law, it is certain that the central tasks of the administration of administrative courts are not performed by the President of the National Court of Justice and that judicial authorities are involved in the administration of the courts. It follows from this that an independent model should be developed for the administration of administrative courts in which judicial bodies are involved. Out of the three possible models of the central administration of the courts, this basic rule essentially excludes two. In relation to the independent judicial model, this decision is explicit, otherwise the Constitutional Court would not have excluded administrative courts from the administrative powers of the President of the National Court of Justice. And the exclusion of a model based on full judicial self-government can be concluded by the fact that the contribution of judicial self-government bodies is provided for in the Fundamental Law, not by the fact that these bodies would independently govern the courts. Several countries in Europe are separated, as I said, by the administration of ordinary and administrative courts. In the case of the Latin Council model, the government plays a decisive role in the administration of the court organisation. In Poland, the administrative courts are fully self-managed. There is also an example of separate administration in a ministerial administrative model: until recently, the administration of the administrative court in Austria was the responsibility of the prime minister, and in Bavaria it is still the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. I would also like to note that, in the vast majority of European countries, justice ministers have a certain scope for judicial administration. I would like to draw this House's attention to the fact that the bill on administrative courts creates a balance between those responsible and competent in the administration in the process of developing an administrative model. The actors are condemned to dialogue and cooperation, neither the Minister, the judiciary nor the Presidents of the Court have too much authority. All actors have a role to play in all areas of administration of administrative courts, and must cooperate. In the light of Hungary's history of law, our proposal follows the ministerial administrative model after careful and careful consideration of the alternatives when establishing the essential characteristics of the new model. In the same way as in the tasks of the judicial administration concerning administrative courts, the minister has a key role to play in other European countries. The administrative powers of the Minister, bearing in mind the constitutional requirements laid down by the Constitutional Court, shall include, with broad guarantees, the exercise of the powers of the body managing the chapter in respect of the chapter of the central budget of the administrative courts, the tasks relating to administrative judicial proposals, appointments of judges and judges, and the provision of the statistical, infrastructure and IT conditions necessary for the functioning of the administrative courts. I met the Austrian Minister of Justice personally and the former. All the things we introduce in Hungary are one in Austria. In countries following the classic ministerial administration model, literature is shared on the validity of judicial authorities, but judicial bodies also have a role in the administration of courts. The bill before this House gives the judicial self-governments much wider and much more significant powers. The powers of the judiciary shall be determined by the bill in accordance with international standards. They carry out essentially advisory, proposal and consultation tasks, in particular in the context of judicial careers, the promotion of judges and questions of a guarantee of the functioning of the courts, in the context of personal issues, the definition of a system of allocation of cases, and the provision of budgetary resources. However, I would like to highlight here the system of division of cases, which is a guarantee issue which is an alpha and an omega of judicial independence. The Minister of Justice has no influence on the system of division of cases. The system of division of cases, which is defined, shall be open to the Court of Justice to challenge before the Court of Service if the system of division of cases is inadequate. Each Judge shall be entitled to challenge the system of division of cases if he or she is to be entrusted or taken away from a case which is not within his or her jurisdiction or which falls within his or her competence. We have built guarantees that, if I may say so, are very much in line with the rule of law, and I believe that they are exemplary at European level. In the same way, I say that the Minister's decisions on personal matters are extremely limited. If you read the bill, you can see that you have to make a decision in addition to transparency, all your decisions are made in public in the process of becoming a judge. The judiciary is set up on two levels, there is the General Court meeting, the Administrative Court, and the National Administrative Board at national level. So there are more judicial councils in the new system than there are in the current system. The bill gives priority to the Presidents of the Administrative Courts in the administration of each administrative court, for example, training is fully carried out in the context of self-management and should also be understood as a function of ensuring the personal and material conditions necessary for the functioning of the respective courts. The Presidents shall be assisted by the Registrar. In certain cases involving all administrative courts, requiring uniform action, the regulatory powers of proposal, opinion and decision shall be conferred on the President of the Administrative Supreme Court. The model of autonomous administration of administrative courts, with respect to the principles of judicial independence and the division of power, seeks a solution that creates the Minister of Justice's powers in the field of judicial administration, in order to be able to assume more responsibility before Parliament for the administration of administrative courts and, through it, for ensuring the functioning of the administrative judicial body. The minister is interpelable, the minister can be asked, the minister has a responsibility before Parliament. The powers of the judiciary in the field of judicial status and the administration of the case-law adequately guarantee the application of the principle of judicial independence in the areas most closely related to the case-law. [[9.30]] Dear House, I have to tell you about the year of transition, the year 2019. Our task is to ensure that the organisation of the administrative court is set up as smoothly as possible. In view of this, the transitional rules provide for a very tight timetable: for how long the President of the Administrative Supreme Court should be elected, for which date judges, court secretaries and authors may declare their transfer, by 30 April 2019, how to establish pre-scheduled numbers. It is important to provide for situations where the new court organisation is not yet in place, so neither the judicial bodies are functioning nor, apart from the elected President of the Administrative Supreme Court, there are no court chair. In view of this, the Temporary Rules Bill ensures that court management proposals are evaluated only after the formation of judicial bodies. However, this also requires short term executive appointments. Due to the planned judicial and administrative procedural changes, it is doubtful that only the judges received can ensure that the organisation is operational. In order to ensure full functionality, it may also be necessary to appoint new judges, due to the increased burden of the case, even before the establishment of an administrative court body. The Minister shall apply for a maximum of half of the vacant posts until 15 June 2019, as agreed with the Association of Administrative Judges, and the other half of the vacant posts may be issued at the earliest in 2020. These proposals will be evaluated in the same way as the rules of procedure for administrative judicial applications, in that regard, the opinion committee, which consists mainly of judges, shall act under the authority of the personal council of the National Administrative Board, which has not yet been set up. I would like to point out that the National Administrative Judicial Council will also be composed in the majority of its judges. This also complies with the standards set out in the Venice Commission. Dear House, Last but not least, I must also mention why Esztergom is the seat of the Supreme Court of Public Administration. It is far from self-evident that the main organs of a country's judicial organization operate in the capital. In the Czech Republic, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court are both located in Brünn, in Germany the Supreme Court, like the Constitutional Court, Karlsruhe, the Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig, the Federal Financial Court in Munich, the Federal Labour Court in Erfurt, and the Federal Social Court in Kassel. We can also mention that the Slovak Constitutional Court operates in Košice. In view of our historical and public traditions, and in order to resolve the centralization of power in the capital, the Constitutional Court has designated Esztergom as its seat. The story of Esztergom was connected with the Hungarian state, and it was a royal seat, and as such, its role in the administration of justice has a millennia of history. At the same time, the city of Esztergom is the 20th district of Esztergom. He's one of the big losers of the century. The Trianon Peace Treaty deprived it of its natural area of attraction, the northern part of Esztergom County and 90 percent of the territory of the Archbishop of Esztergom. After the Second World War, due to its historical significance and its ecclesiastical central past, communist governments constantly punished and installed its functions in other cities. For example, the county court is in Tatabánya and not in Esztergom, even though the county court was in Esztergom. We trust that with this decision we will help Esztergom to develop in the region, reduce the country's Budapest-centricity, and recreate the role of the former royal city in Hungarian state operations. I have visited the building which will be the seat of the administrative supreme court, on the southern canon line, a fantastic building whose renovation works will begin, and we trust that on 1 January 2020 the administrative supreme court will have a place in this building. Dear Parliament, My best professional-scientific belief is that modern legislative proposals, in line with our constitutional and public traditions and with the European head sedor, have been put on the agenda of this House. It is natural for me to have a serious debate about this and even to develop it. Nevertheless, the Minister of Justice sought perfection, endeavoured to submit to this House a material that complies with European standards, stands up to the criticism of the Venice Commission and serves the interests of the Hungarian State and the interests of Hungary. I ask the House to accept this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-14-4	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-5	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, Today we will be discussing administrative courts, I hope it will be a good debate. This was based on the Minister's opening exposé, which, based on historical traditions, said with today's fashionable words benchmarks, foreign outlook and historical traditions why administrative courts were needed. Let's see where we started sometime in 2010. The Orbán government has set itself a renewal of the state, given what the citizens faced at that time: an over-bureaucratized, less efficient, parallel state. In most cases, citizens are involved in public administration. In view of the fact that there are more than 20 million cases per year in the territorial administration alone today, there was a need to renew the organisational system on the one hand and legislative issues on the other, legislative issues had to be resolved. Mr. Minister made very strong commitments when he was appointed. On the one hand, the reform of the criminal code, the criminal proceedings, on the other hand, the establishment of civil proceedings, the establishment of administrative courts and the establishment of a general administrative order and the so-called "pp.'. Today, in addition to the renewal of the public administration, where district offices, regional administrations were established, government windows were created, legislative issues have been resolved until now, and now the last and one of the most important steps of the rule of law is to establish administrative courts, which, as it was said, were, in 1949, virtually with the entry into force of 20, 70 years ago by the Communist dictatorship. Ladies and Gentlemen, The most basic guarantee was already considered by the 19th century. At the end of the 20th century, the legal institution of judicial control over public administration was then Parliament. After all, the state's power has widened, and citizens have met with a much wider range of issues, not only with social and welfare measures, but also with significant influence in the area of living conditions. As a result, the number of meetings between administrative activities and the direct living conditions of individuals has increased dramatically. The strengthening of the guarantee of fundamental rights has also brought about the process of speeding up and multiplying legislative activity. This trend has started to expand the framework of the existing organisational system. The situation thus established required that an independent and specialised independent forum be established to ensure, in the balance between public interest and individual interests, that the rule of law is enforced and that effective public administration is taken into account. In view of this need, independent administrative courts have emerged in Europe, from which our country's judicial system was no exception. XXVI, 1896. Act created the Royal Administrative Court, which operates at a high professional level. It has been mentioned that the Communist dictatorship has not been able to miss this forum, the independent administrative court embodying control over the authority of the state, from the liquidation of institutions to protect the rights of citizens. [[9.40]] I recall that, despite all this, the year-to-year "During" II. In its reasoning, the law recognised that the concept of the rule of law included a system of public court proceedings in which a judicial body outside the executive authority is competent to rule on public law disputes between public authority and seekers, and, despite the fact that this was described, terminated this type of court. Given the facts, the ideas which fear democracy from administrative courts have been referred to in several cases by the Minister, while the system of persecution of democracy by fire and iron has broken down autonomous administrative justice. I would particularly like to note this in the light of the fact that there are separate administrative courts in the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union. In 14 EU Member States, there is a judicial administrative model based on the priority powers of the judicial self-government body, with 11 other Member States being divided into two categories, with 5 Member States having a strong ministerial administration. More has already been explained, for example, in Austria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland and Germany, and in 6 Member States, the administration of the courts is carried out by a judicial office. Court offices are partly independent, such as Lithuania, partly subordinate to the Ministry of Justice, for example Sweden. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us replaces 30 years of serious failure of democracy in Hungary. The establishment of independent administrative courts and the process of conducting professional disputes should take place without prejudice to party policy interests. I would like to quote the words of Ágos Pulszky, rapporteur of the bill on administrative courts in the House on 18 May 1896, and I quote: I think the subject is so serious that we do not deal with the personal relatives or dislikes of certain party fractions. How true that is today! There is no better reason for the independent administration than the words of Gyula Wlassics as President of the Hungarian Royal Administrative Court in 1930, and I quote: "There is no doubt, even if the image of the far future is that the conceptual administrative matters will be brought before the administrative court on a principle basis without taxing, but in any case this will be the end of the development of administrative justice. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Recognizing the truth expressed by Gyula Wlassics, the government has begun to establish the foundations of independent professional administrative justice. During the previous parliamentary term, for the first time in the course of the Hungarian public law legislation, independent administrative litigation was adopted. By adopting this, the first step has been taken in the repositioning of administrative jurisdiction. Thanks to the trust of the voters, the current Parliament has established the framework for an organisationally independent administrative judicial system by means of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, and today we are starting to argue that we should upload this system with legislation and content. Dear House, The establishment of a system of administrative judicial organisations is a matter of professional consultations and social consultations, which the Minister has already spoken about in detail, which requires optimally two-tier operation, taking into account international comparative trends, which means the following. There would be an administrative supreme court of the same legal status as the Mansion and eight administrative courts under it. In order to address all legal and constitutional concerns, I would like to clarify the Minister's powers regarding administrative courts. The principle to be highlighted under the law is that the ministerial administrative model will be introduced in this case, as in many other EU Member States that have already been mentioned. In addition to exercising the Minister's budgetary and staff powers, the judicial authorities have a key role to play in these matters. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Minister's decision-making powers are placed within strong limits and the possibility of making any subjective decisions is excluded. I believe that the structure outlined meets the requirements of the rule of law. The powers of the judiciary, which was also mentioned in the ministerial expozee, were developed in the light of the criteria of the Rule of Law Checklist issued by the Venice Commission in 2016 and the report on the independence of the 2010 judicial system. In addition to questions of a guarantee of the functioning of the courts, they also carry out tasks of personnel, case allocation, budgetary resources, opinion, proposal and consultation, particularly in relation to judicial careers and the advancement of judges. These judicial bodies would be set up on two levels. In addition to each administrative court, a meeting of judges and an Administrative Court will be set up, while at national level the National Administrative Council, OKBT, will be set up. Both the Venice Commission and the ENCJ Dublin Declaration highlight the role of independent judicial councils in judicial appointments and advancement as a guarantee of judicial independence, to which the Hungarian model is fully consistent. The Presidents of the Administrative Court shall be assisted by the Registrar and the Director of the Court, who shall exercise the technical management of the Court, in the performance of their administrative activities, in order to ensure the personal and material conditions. They operate in seven Member States, such as France, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain or Estonia. The President of the Administrative Supreme Court shall have the right to exercise his or her powers of proposal, opinion and decision in cases requiring single action, which concern all administrative courts. The regulation also refers to the development of a plan and programme for the training system of administrative judges, as well as the plan and programme for the single central training of court secretaries and authors, which the OCTB considers. As a result of the technical consultations, there was a unanimous consensus on the possibility of only minor derogations from the rules on the status of an administrative judge in relation to the rules on ordinary judges. The fundamental purpose of the derogation is to ensure that candidates who are the secretary of a traditional internal judicial career and who come from outside with the required and required professional knowledge have an equal chance of becoming an administrative judge. The fact that there is an intense relationship between the administration and the courts also strengthens the specific nature of administrative jurisdiction. The proposal before us gives the administrative judge the opportunity to place his position in the populations of various public administrations, so that he can expand his administrative and judicial experience. Dear fellow Members, In the tendering procedure, the judiciary would have a strong power to propose and deliver opinions, thus limiting the Minister's decision-making powers. Of course, in the light of the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the President of the Republic is entitled to the right of appointment in accordance with Hungarian public-law traditions. I think it is a positive idea that, prior to the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts, judges who hold a leading position in court will have the opportunity to pursue their judicial careers either in an administrative or in a ordinary court organisation, keeping their former management remuneration until the end of their original term of office, if they are not re-appointed as court leaders, of course, there is a chance. This provision is of very important constitutional importance, as it provides guarantees to current court leaders. Dear Parliament, In my opinion, it proves to be a joyful moment when the former achievements of our historic statehood and our historic constitution, but still necessary today, are brought back to life in our national legal order, and this is no different with administrative courts. The communist regime, which denies the rule of law, overlooking the rule of law and introducing authoritarian rule, abolished this organisation in 49. [[9.50]] We, the members of the elected Parliament, in the spirit of honoring our traditions of public law, the creation of modern, professional administrative justice, can once again create a very important and fully valid public law achievement of the historical state order of more than seventy years ago. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal, please do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for staying here to listen to the keynote speakership, which is important, since opinions may reach the Ministry and Minister. Although I might add that we would have liked it if the Minister had been able to attend the ministerial meeting, or if we had sent our proposals, Secretary of State Völner was there, but it doesn't seem to have been very successful, since the bill that lies before us was immediately tabled. They couldn't go undercover, obviously they couldn't even consider it, so quickly presented this proposal. I think that if they really wanted to hold a consultation where they really wanted to hear the opinion of the opposition, it would have been better to do so sooner and at least formally commend the opposition petitioners on something. But it's all in the past, and here's the parliamentary debate to discuss the excuses that arise. Obviously, from the opposition side, Jobbik will not be the only one to express these concerns. I'm sure there will be some that will be repeated by the speakers after me, some that will be supplemented. I myself, with my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, who is now in committee, but we have agreed, as far as we know, on the content of our speech. Obviously, there will be something here that will be repeated, but, as they say, repetition is the mother of knowledge. Turning to specific topics, the words of the expos, the ministerial expoze and the lead speaker of Fidesz, Zoltán Kovács, show that administrative justice may seem to need a major reform in Hungary and there are serious problems with it. I don't think that's true. If we transform a system, then it can be said that it will be better, and then obviously we have to bear criticism, or the opposition will tell us what you might think about it, but to suggest that there is a problem with the courts, the independence of the administrative courts, I think this is exaggeration; and if there is a problem, then there may be a problem with your independence. I certainly do not dispute your good intentions, but what we see in practice is that the rules that have been made have unfortunately been left behind by the loopholes which the president of the OBH, as well as the government, has taken advantage of. Minister of State Völner and I have had several interpellation and oral discussions on whether the government's task is to intervene in the established tensions of OBT, OBH, the National Court Office and the National Court of Justice Council. I mean the intervention, of course, by amending the two-thirds laws through the National Assembly. So don't get me wrong, I'm not asking for manual government intervention. What we do know is that with the loopholes that have been opened and depended on the discretionary right of the President of the OBH at all times, he is abusing or not; unfortunately, we have seen from Tünde Hando's practice recently that he has not acted in accordance with the law. The Constitutional Court's decisions are already in place, and certain main points of its integrity regulations have been destroyed. The Labour Court has already ruled on a court appointment that it has not acted properly before Tünde Hando or Strasbourg. Why am I telling you this, Mr. Secretary, in the administrative courts? It is very important that when we look at these laws, based on the practice of the last eight years, we should look for the loopholes that the government can use, and even the size of the loopholes, that it will try to abuse them, or that if someone abuses or does not comply with these rules, even those rules that are described, then will there be power, power, who can control them. As we can see, and that is why I told you in my introduction about the administration of the court system, which takes place through the National Court Office, everything is well said in the exposé, unfortunately in practice we see that the body for control, the National Judicial Council, is completely powerless. But to get to the administrative courts, in fact, you have also said here, in addition to how many European examples we can see of a similar system; I would add that if we look at certain motives and put them together, it is not certain whether it will work well or who will apply these laws. As we have seen, if there is no intention, and in Austria or the Western countries I see less intention to intervene specifically in the functioning of the judiciary, so if the minister is actually acting only in an administrative capacity, he does not say anything, he does not want to say what kind of influence the appointments are affected by either party or party affiliation, then this could be a well-functioning model. But in this model, Minister, think again with the best of intentions, you may not be the minister after a while, or this will happen to everyone sooner or later, obviously not to you forever. And if you say, with the best of intentions, that you will act as the letter of the law and morals, then there will be one appointed; let us say, if you do not carry out the political instructions properly, you may be a minister who will do so, and indeed will abuse these laws. Therefore, the European comparison is always a little limp. I would add that the classic example of this is that in the case of gallows, there are different logs and logs, it is harmless and the rope is also used for many things, but as a gallows, it obviously has a slightly different message than wood bars and a rope separately. That's what I see as they construct these proposals. However, if not only European examples but also Hungarian law history are a reference, this has already been said, Minister, we have also looked up what the legal history textbooks have to say about this. At the end of the century, the 1896 law, what the background was, and how it came about. We are talking about the textbook Csizmadia-Kovács-Castalos from the textbook entitled Hungarian History of State and Law, and this article is about the 1896 Act:. The administrative courts have been separated from the court system, but the government has centralised the administrative court under its own supervision and has kept the appointments and promotions pending. So the problem is that the XIX. It wasn't even a modern thing in the first century. I have to say that there have been modern things: for example, the 1848-49 legislation, the legislation implemented during the revolution, has many achievements that preceded Europe. In fact, there are probably a number of such laws in dualism as well. That wasn't it. I would like to quote another legal historian, József Szabó, who also said about this piece of law, that will not be long either:. The historical responsibility for the lack of effective administrative protection lies with the political elite of his time. They did not dare to demand any version of effective administrative law protection. Hungarian politics feared for central power from an efficient administrative court, sought to extend administrative protection to the narrowest circle. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So these are the historical examples that legal historians admit and describe that there was no modern system even in that period, and that was the maximum for the elite at that time to go to the independent administrative court. [[10.00]] So, unfortunately, it's a bad reference, and if we're talking about a law story, we can obviously see the parallels, but it's not the 21st. It's the 19th century, more like the 19th century. It's gonna take the country back to a century. We can see a similar direction in the general justification. I think that there may be some comment in this, and I have to quote again, because at the conciliation they said that the sentence to be read now refers to another explanation, but I would ask that we interpret together what was the purpose of this proposal. In other words, the proposal before us seeks a solution that creates the Minister of Justice's powers in the field of judicial administration. So far, it's okay and we understand and how well it's okay, the question is, but it's clear. In order to be able to assume more political responsibility than in its current instrument system, the administrative courts and through it the administrative court body should ensure that it functions well. This is a clear message to me that the Minister would like to take political responsibility for the so-called good functioning of the courts. What's a good operation? This could be discussed. Obviously, everyone can interpret what they want, but we are not only talking about the institutional background itself if they read this sentence, but also about the good functioning of the courts and their organisations themselves. This word is a rubber concept, everyone can say that what he does is good, or, let's say, a ministerial intervention is for a good purpose. But I fear that in practice the emphasis will be on political responsibility. And we do not want to, and I think that we are not alone in our home, but also in Europe, if the minister has to take political responsibility for the functioning of the courts and administrative courts, because political responsibility also means intervention. This is 66. I also think that, when it comes to a particular judicial attitude that administrative jurisdiction requires, which is able to protect the citizen from the necessarily dominant authority, it is okay, but does not lose sight of the public interest. Once again, when you run through it, it does not appear that the courts are essentially responsible for the application of the law and the corresponding judgments. So they must take the public interest into account only in such a way that it is included in the laws and that they also serve the public interest by making a proper decision to the law. But in addition to the fact that the legal protection function and compliance with the law are fulfilled, I do not believe that the courts have a quasi-deprecating public interest right. Therefore, if the law is clear and the law is to be given the truth, the court cannot override it, nor can a judge, with reference to the fact that this decision may be in compliance with the law, but it is in some way against the public interest, and therefore a decision must be taken which does not comply with the law, but which is alleged to be in the public interest. We also found that the public interest in Hungary is increasingly moving towards the NER interest. I would also like to address a number of detailed points on the bill and to tell the Minister which details, among other things, indicate that the system and the government do not necessarily seek independence here. I would like to mention first that it is a very strange practice that self-government is implemented in the judicial councils. This is done on the one hand at the level of the courts and on the other hand at the level of the Supreme Court. But what we can see is that if they act as personal councils, so when they exercise their real ranking rights or their rights to appointing powers, interestingly, an additional control mechanism is put in place. So you might say they're a little under custody. In the case of the courts, this only means that the plus two delegates of the President of the Supreme Court are added. So the President of the Supreme Court will be elected by this Parliament, and Patyi András is the candidate for this post. This will be discussed in more detail by my fellow Member, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea. I also raised this at the ministerial meeting, but of course, it was denied there. I'll also tell you that I managed to welcome him and Csaba Hende in a bottle of red wine right there. We couldn't think of anything better, and he held the bet that if András Patyi became the president of the Supreme Court, he would give me a bottle of red wine as the winner of the bet, and if he didn't, I would lose this bet. It is obviously symbolic, but Csaba Hende said so strongly that he does not know about this, there is no such intention, and he may not even be able to imagine that he had to be there on the spot, and this has also been recorded, stressing that it can be predicted by the resignation of András Patyi and the activation of his judicial status, that there is something going on here, but that the representatives who will speak after me will speak of it publicly. In the operation of the Staff Council, which acts when it comes to making personal decisions in the most important cases, this is even more outstanding. If we are talking about the National Administrative Judicial Council, also when it exercises its more significant powers, only four judges from among its members will act in such a way, and the other members will be nominated by the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, then by the Chief Prosecutor, the Minister for Public Administration and the President of the Hungarian Bar Association. It is very strange that four judges and four outsiders appear, but only in decisions where meaningful decisions can be made. It's a very weird solution, and it's projected that they're trying to put the judges in the background here as well. It may seem like a minor professional observation, but it's 16. In fact, in the case of the legal unit procedure, you are introducing a kind of case law. Then everyone can draw conclusions that this is good or not good, I don't think it is necessarily. After all, they say that if one of the Supreme Court's judicial councils wishes to depart from another Chamber's decision, then a legal unit procedure must be initiated. So it's not that you want to deviate from a single law decision, it's a decision in any case. This also means that the judges working in the Supreme Court must also study the decisions of the other judges on a daily basis, since how else would they know, not in a case of legal unity, but in a simple case, that a decision was made and that, as I said, he could not depart from it. So this is also a change to the current system. Then the municipalities will be forced into this system, of course. The municipal council of the Supreme Court will decide which municipal decision is in accordance with the law or which is not. If the independence of these courts is not guaranteed, then local government control will not be democratic, as I have said, and if we were already at the National Administrative Court, I do not consider it a good thing in itself that the President of this court is automatically the President of the Supreme Court, because then there will not be an extra external control, but in fact this position will be concentrated in one hand. So, as the President of the OBH would also be the President of OBT if I were to refer to the current system. Receiving the current bad practice of excluding judges subject to disciplinary action in all positions of leadership. This is very bad, Minister, because everyone is entitled to the presumption of innocence, and, moreover, if someone is in position and is subject to disciplinary action, there is no consequence of this, but it is very good that the practitioner of disciplinary powers excludes candidates who do not like it. Unfortunately, this has happened more than once in the current system, if the press is going through, a lot of people have not been able to run for office in the OBT elections because of what God gives, a disciplinary action has been initiated against them, and then, if it does not stop after that, they have failed the election. [[10.10]] My colleague, Mr Varga-Damm Andrea, will also talk about ministerial powers. An amazing amount of power goes to the Minister, and we are not just talking about the rules of organisation and operation of the President of the Tribunal, which is particularly spicy, that it must be sent up to the Minister, or even that the minister will personally listen to the candidates who will be presented to him, and the candidates who will be appointed to the court will have to be heard. I noted in a low voice at the meeting, I understand that the ministerial position is quite tiring and full of burdens, and Minister, although he can be here now, thank God, but at that meeting when we were at the Ministry, he could not be there for other public tasks. So if the Minister is unable to attend the technical discussion of the proposal, then how much energy he will have to listen to these candidates one by one, I have doubts about that. So I think that this also affects the direction of not only overloading the minister, but also increasing his powers in an extreme way, and the Minister will decide who will be the court leader of the three candidates submitted to him, or who will be appointed, so to speak, a simple judge. As I said, the other similar powers will be given by my fellow Member, Damm Andrea. In the terms of appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, there is very little practice in the five years of administrative proceedings, and even that is not necessary, and it is enough to give him ten years of time in the field of administrative law, which means that the President of the Supreme Court can be appointed by a person who has not been a judge in his life. That's kind of weird. I do not know how much practice this is in Europe, I am sure this has also been examined, I do not know if there is a European example, I would be very surprised if there were. By the way, this is true of the other positions, i.e. the second president, but even for forensic presidents, there is enough exercise for five years, and there is enough practice in the five-year administrative legal field. So to give me an insightful example, the way to be a Forensic President is to say, at a government office, he worked as a legal lecturer for five years, and he's going to give them tasks and direction to judges who, say, have been on the field for, say, 25 to 30 years. So we can imagine this situation, again, it is not strengthening independent operation and professional functioning in my opinion, and unfortunately, I am afraid that time will prove that we were right in this too, I add: unfortunately. I must mention that even at the time of appointment, the Minister will assign judges to the administrative courts, and, as I said, the various powers will not even end here. I mentioned the system of evaluation of applications, and I think the minister's outstanding powers. However, at the end of this, I have to highlight one more thing, and this is the type of law-unity decisions when it comes to finding out, and it is clear here that the separation of the entire administrative judicial system from the Mansion is a wooden iron ring, or a metal wooden house, as you can see in the advertisements of certain trade chains, because when certain decisions are made at the Mansion, and you have thought about it, there is a separate chapter in which decisions can be made in the Mansion on certain legal matters, whether decisions of a legal unit, for which decisions will be made at the administrative high court, and thus the legal system will be quite damaged, its unity. What can you do in this case? As you write in the explanatory statement, you're going to launch a so-called super-law unit procedure. For this reason, the Curia is the main body that brings together professional work to avoid the need to initiate such super-super-legal unit proceedings if these courts take decisions on a different legal unit. And then, of course, we will need a council of powers if there is a positive or negative conflict of jurisdiction, i.e. if administrative courts and ordinary courts determine their jurisdiction in a particular case, in a group of cases, or if none of them determines it. In this case, the judges of the Curia, the President of the Curia and the President of the Supreme Court will have to sit down, negotiate these matters, and, where appropriate, develop joint legal unit councils, which will decide who will be, more precisely, what decision to take, which will apply to the Curia and the Supreme Court. I believe that this proves, professionally, that there is absolutely no need to separate this system, Minister. If it turns out here that practically a parallel system, the Hungarian common case-law and the application of law can only be implemented in a bumpy manner, in agreement with each other, by different and really you can write with super-uniform procedures, then there is a big problem and it suggests that the problem with the current practice is that you can only make decisions that are against the interests of NER, even though they comply with the legislation. After the election, we also saw that Viktor Orbán himself declared that the Curia had taken a mandate from Fidesz. So I think, given that the Curia is responsible for enforcing the law, and their decision was not against the law if someone read it as a lawyer, it is a political attack on the Curia that predicts the need for another court here, which will have a leader who will carry out political instructions more effectively. But if that is not enough, or if it is not enough, then the minister will be able to intervene, and the minister will be able to move beyond this Supreme Court or the President of the Administrative Supreme Court through his powers. So I have to say that they can't trust even their own people, even though who is aspirant to this post, András Patyi, the fine champion, remember this video of Viktor Orbán, which was not a guerillavideo, I first thought that there was no such thing as this to be officially posted, so this must be some kind of leak, but remember that András Patyi apologizes to Viktor Orbán, that he may have imposed a few hundred thousand HUF fines on a public-sector visit with reference to the legislation. We can imagine how independent that administrative court will be if, let's say, one of the leaders of András Patyi or anyone else who apologizes to the Prime Minister for applying the law, enforcing or trying to enforce the law. I suppose there was no other option in the given situation, since opposition candidates have already been fined for the same reason as a fine, but a serious, broken, hand-wringing apology must be sought. I must say that you can imagine that God protects Hungary from such a judicial system, and, as I said, unfortunately, this is certainly what the practice will support. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[10.20]]
u2018-11-14-8	Thank you very much. Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it must be stated that there is a major bill on the bill on administrative courts, and I congratulate the Minister and the expert council set up by the Minister for the preparation of such a bill on T/3353, but so on on T/3354. It also applies to legislative proposals No 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite all this, siren sounds are falsely whispering in people's ears that the restoration of administrative courts would be the wrong way to go today. When the alarm bell rings, the siren sounds do not hesitate to falsely claim that by restoring administrative courts, the third power sector is being threatened by the government or parliament. I see my fellow opposition Members like the siren sounds, so let's see why they're alarming us. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Very! Serial-list siren sounds.]] That's right, our opposition colleagues have touched the Triumvirate, that's right, my colleague Bernadett Szél: they are playing from the score of the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate, that's the solution. And why are they trying to scare me? They are alarmed because they do not acknowledge that the restoration of administrative justice before 1949 is actually a celebration of the rule of law. They are alarmed because they do not recognize the need to restore administrative justice. They are alarmed because Hungarian administrative justice based on Hungarian historical traditions is rejected, despite the fact that in 1949 Russian bayonets destroyed it, bringing in at the same time the communist constitution of Soviet model and content, implementing the communist dictatorship and the anti-national and anti-Christian laws based on it. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, 1896 XXXVI. Act created the Hungarian Royal Administrative Court. This administrative court, which controls the power of state, was abolished by the Communist dictatorship in 1949, precisely because of its rule of law. Chapter II of 1949 on the termination of the administrative court The reason for this law is that the last century, or the 19th century, is the same. The century saw the culmination of political development in building a so-called rule of law. This concept included a system of public-law jurisdiction in which public-law disputes between public authority and seekers were the responsibility of a judicial body outside the executive authority. He also claimed that the reasons for the, the late bill were that, on the other hand, popular democracy sees the guarantee of civil rights in the fact that the power of state is exercised by the people themselves. Thus, the executive authority itself is in the hands of the people's interests in every respect. In addition to this concept, the Communist law says that there is no need for a separate administrative court, no need for a rule of law. It's the verdikt itself. This meant that judicial control of actions triggering administrative effects was essentially abolished in 1949. This is the system that the opposition wants to maintain largely, referring to the rule of law, although historical facts prove what I have said to you that this is against the rule of law. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can clearly see from the above that the news that the introduction of administrative judicial action would be the Trojan Wall of Fidesz-KDNP is false. The question is inevitable: why are they trying to piss our citizens against the administrative court? [[Gergely Harvester: Siren-Brussels-Soros!]] when it is nothing more than the judgment of civil judges or criminal judges in administrative matters. It is, therefore, for administrative matters requiring special expertise to be judged by the independent administrative judiciary on the basis of a separate administration procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a first step, before submitting this bill, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the administrative procedure towards the end of the parliamentary term of 2014-18, thereby repositioning administrative jurisdiction. Dear House, As a second step, by means of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, it laid down the framework of the organisationally independent administrative court system as laid down in Article 25 of the Fundamental Law that the organizational system of the Hungarian courts would be divided into ordinary and administrative courts, and it also concluded that while the main body of the ordinary court would remain the Curia, the administrative supreme court would become the main body of the administrative courts. The guarantees of judicial independence remained unchanged. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the bill, the administrative court body is set up on a two-tier basis, consisting of an administrative superior court and eight administrative courts. The administrative tribunals would act only in the first instance, and the administrative court and the Supreme Court would therefore have the power to bring an appeal against the judgments of the Court of Justice, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to consider the exceptional remedy, the exceptional remedy procedure, i.e. the review of the final judgment itself, and, on the third, to deal with cases in the first instance with the Administrative Supreme Court itself; on the other hand, in which jurisdiction, not one of the eight courts would have jurisdiction. The classification of administrative courts in the ordinary court body would correspond to the classification of courts, while the classification of the administrative superior court would be the same as that of the Curia. In view of Hungary's legal history, the model of restored administrative courts would follow the ministerial administrative model. Accordingly, the Minister for Justice would have a strong role to play in the tasks of the judicial administration concerning administrative courts. Ladies and Gentlemen, And why do we hear from the siren voices again that the minister's administrative function in the administrative courts is, so to speak, from the devil, when the whole judicial system, the whole civil and the whole criminal courts, functioned as a ministerial administrative model for the change of system in 1990 and eight years thereafter? I can't think of anything else but a Pharisee position. [[Gergely Arató: Siren bells of Farizeus.]] Farizeusi, because when the Minister of Justice's administrative function was extended to all courts, it was found to be in order. Now, when the administrative function of the Minister of Justice would only extend to administrative courts, they now take the view that there is a serious problem of the rule of law. [[10.30]] In fact, they do not hesitate to say that they have never seen such a dangerous intervention in the life of independent Hungarian judges. Ladies and Gentlemen, These aren't real excuses. And remember that it is important to restore Hungarian administrative justice based on Hungarian historical traditions. In view of this, the parliamentary faction of KDNP supports both legislative proposals. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-10	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2018-11-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, we are here as a result of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, since it already contains the prelude to this specific proposal, which is part of the foundation of the proposal on administrative courts. However, I would like to start here with a few points. On the one hand, whatever they say is a genuine, meaningful dialogue with the opposition, which would have had a chance to influence the content of the proposal, it was not, nor could it be, since they have very clear political intentions with this proposal. If we ask whether it is possible to negotiate a proposal with which more factions could agree here in Parliament, then we could be sure to discuss it, to give international examples, and I also know that Minister is a very serious expert in this area. However, it must be said that such a proposal cannot be viewed and negotiated independently of space and time. It is not possible to look at any such proposal regardless of the methods of exercising power and the means used to date by the Orbán government. In fact, it can be said that whoever the minister wants will be a judge in this system as long as he wants and is expected to be, there is a very strong suspicion that in many cases the current Minister of Justice and thus the government can have a very strong influence on the decisions taken in individual cases. Historism is strongly reflected in the proposal, and the designation of the seat in Esztergom shows precisely that, since the choice of seat has only historical reasons, for practical and practical reasons, this is highly objectionable. Let me give you a domestic example: About East Hungary, for example, Esztergom's approach is much harder than that of Budapest. It's almost two hours longer by train from Miskolc, and it can't be solved without a transfer. The imitation of historical patterns also appears when the second person of the administrative superior court is institutionalised as the second chair. Unfortunately, however, the proposal not only quotes the past in symbolic terms but also in its content, since it contains provisions which are incompatible with the requirements of the rule of law, and judicial and judicial independence is not guaranteed in any way. In addition, my opposition colleague before me has provided very interesting examples of legal history that Article XIX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. At the end of the century, how was the situation judged? The system of court organisations is completely politicised by the proposal. The main objective seems to be to enforce political will at all levels, which is also covered by guarantees in the proposal. The proposal proudly proclaims its compliance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission by assigning a separate chapter in the budget to the administrative courts, thereby creating the financial independence of the administrative courts. That sounds like fun. The Venice Commission's recommendations do indeed include this as a criterion of financial independence, but this proposal does so only by appearance. The reason for this is that the Minister for Justice at all times has extremely wide powers in the definition of the court's budget. The Minister exercises the rights of the chapter owner over the budget chapter of the administrative courts, at least according to the proposal, which I very much hope will change on the basis of the experience of the general debate. In this part of the proposal, the Minister shall determine the budget of the administrative courts. Although the various courts have the right to deliver their opinions, and this opinion must also be presented by the minister, it is not bound in any form to the opinions sent by the court, it is practically free to lay down the budget of the administrative courts. In comparison, it is important to note that in the case of ordinary courts, chapter management powers are exercised by the President of the OBH, which provides much greater independence guarantees than the proposed solution for administrative courts. In this respect, the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts is of particular interest. Law 65. §2 of the Act, which considers the President of the OBH as the head of the chapter to be justified precisely because he considers the constitutional principle of judicial independence to be ensured only in this way. Therefore, this 2011 law raises the opposite arguments. This means that in 2011, the Orbán government still believed that financial independence could only be guaranteed if the courts could draw up their own budgets. The opinion of the Orbán government on judicial independence seems to have changed a lot over the last seven years. The need to enforce political will is the strongest on personal issues as proposed. The National Administrative Judicial Council, which will be practically the body of the National Judicial Council in the administration, and the decision-making body of the administrative judges, so this OKBT, if it acts as a personal council, operates with a particularly outrageous composition. In this configuration, OKBT consists of nine members as planned. Of this, the President of the Administrative Supreme Court is one member, which is understandable, another four members are ordinary members of the OKBT, which is also understandable. One of the remaining four members, however, is delegated by the Parliament's Justice Committee, one by the Attorney General, one by the Prime Minister's Minister and one by the President of the Hungarian Bar Association. The delegation of the last four members in this form is unacceptable. A total of four non-executive members may be delegated to a politically motivated participant in the Board of Appeal in personal matters. This basically undermines the requirement of judicial independence and thus the right to a fair trial. The OKBT Staff Council will propose, for example, judicial appointments. As can be seen later in the proposal, in addition to the very wide rights of the Minister in connection with the appointments of judges, which is also unacceptable, there is also no justification for the uploading of the OKBT staff to such persons, at least this should have been an objective professional body. I hope this changes for the next few weeks before the National Assembly. However, this, so independence and the right to a fair trial in such a composition, obviously will not be achieved. However, the Minister's rights to the aforementioned appointment are the greatest threat to the rule of law in our view. They are also a threat to judicial independence and to fair procedure. The staff council of OKBT will rate applicants for the same job on a different basis. 80% of the points will be of a professional nature, and 20 percent of them, let's say, relate to vocation, which is appreciated at the hearing. If I try to be a little easier, then I say that this 20 percent could be a powerful subjective score, or even if I put it a little more strongly, I can say that practically political considerations can define this 20 percent. Based on these scores, a ranking will be drawn up to submit a ranking to the Minister. However, the Minister is not bound to this ranking in any form as proposed. You listen to the candidates and you can almost completely change the ranking, thus putting someone else first. [[10.40]] This is important because the first-ranking person on the basis of the proposal should be referred to a judge. So in the event that a person has reached less than half of the professional points, i.e. from the maximum 80 percent, let's say 30 percent, but receives the 20 percent, subjective score, then this minimum condition for him to be appointed is 50 percent, so the minister can choose to rank someone first with less than half of the professional points. This ministerial decision is not tied to anything, it is not influenced by anything, there is only an obligation to justify it, but this does not prevent the Minister from changing the ranking in any way as proposed. Thus, the decision on the identity of judges is almost exclusively in the hands of the Minister, because the President of the Republic cannot refuse the appointment in principle. However, this is not the only right of the Minister to the judges. He exercises employers' rights over the Presidents of the Tribunal, who exercise them over the judges working in the court. Thus, the ministerial power, albeit indirectly, actually extends to all the judges. The Minister shall also issue the proposals for secretary and author of the court according to the draft. The proposal for the appointment of court secretaries and authors is made by the President of the Court to the Minister, but, as I have just said, the employer's powers are exercised by the Minister, so the objectivity of the selection is highly questionable. The Administrative Supreme Court shall also have a significant power to delegate two members to the College, who shall be fully entitled to attend this meeting, to the extent that the administrative judicial councils of each court act as personal councils. This solution, although at first it seems similar to that of the ordinary court system, is yet there is a very significant difference, which in this case will make the practice much more reversive, in our opinion. This difference relates to the composition of the administrative councils in each court. In the ordinary court system, these councils may be between 5 and 11 members, depending on the court's decision, and in the case of administrative courts, this number shall not be five persons. It is not difficult to see how much greater the weight of these two will be here. In addition, the Vice-President of the Administrative Supreme Court cannot be against the President, because he appoints the President of the Republic without a tender, on a proposal from the President. So practically no one will have any professional control over the person of the Vice-President, and the Vice-President will be the number one employee of the President. It is also likely that discipline and politically influencable, politically acceptable decisions are aimed at the provision that a appointed judge may not act as a single judge within one year of his appointment. This provision is clearly intended to ensure that administrative judges acquire the customs of the administrative court, which are expected to be clearly politicised for the reasons set out above. The concept of the rule of law, widely accepted by thinking scientists about it, includes, among other things, judicial independence, legal certainty, the rule of law, the law-boundness of judges, and the recognition and guarantee of fundamental human rights. It is important to highlight these because they are all damaged under the present proposal and we believe that this raises very serious problems. The principle of judicial independence, the principle of the law-boundness of judges and the requirement of legal certainty are violated as a result of the political influence I have presented to me on the person of the court organisation and of the judges. We can say that administrative judges will be bound to policy rather than to law, unfortunately against political influence, at least we can say that the proposal does not provide protection for judges, and even, on the basis of what has been presented earlier, it gives policy the opportunity to choose only judges who are in line with the values of the current policy, the values of the government, but also to challenge judges or the whole court through the budgetary power of the employer when they do not decide according to political will. This, in itself, is a fundamental and serious violation of the rule of law. The Constitutional Court has stated in several decisions that the rule of law of public authorities is an essential requirement of the rule of law. For example, the Ab Decision No 56/1191 or Decision No 31/2010, Decision No 29/2011. As has already been demonstrated by me, the administrative courts in this form are proposed to act as bodies subject to policy and much less law, so that in itself the rule of law is violated by the exercise of this type of judicial authority, but they will not be able to adequately control the law of public administration. The risks of excessive interference by the legislator or the executive authority in the judicial arm have already been highlighted by the Constitutional Court. According to the practice of the Constitutional Court, and here I would quote precisely: any external intervention in the case-law activity is a far more serious threat to constitutional settlement than the possible overweight of the judicial authority. This is from the Ab Decision No 17/1994. Because of political influence, the requirement for a fair trial is also violated. I would also quote: this requires the judges, the court, to be neutral against the other two powers of political nature, and also to be subject only to the law. As a result, the court cannot be as defined and dependent on the other branches of power as they are among themselves. This is from Decision No 38/1993 Ab. Finally, it is important to note that all sensitive matters, which in some respects may be politically influenced, are important for you to be able to influence them or simply deal with them, such as, say, matters relating to the right of assembly, matters relating to the review of public procurement, they will go to these courts. We can therefore say that, if the law is adopted, they will establish a system in which the Fidesz-KDNP government can actually decide whether or not its own actions are lawful. The content of such judgments can already be easily foreseen in these cases. Based on the above, the opinion of our group is clear: we cannot support the proposal in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-12	Thank you very much. Mr Gergely Arató, lead speaker for the Democratic Coalition Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-13	Thank you very much. Dear House, I must agree with Minister that this is a famous day for the Hungarian rule of law; unfortunately, it is not a holiday, but a day of mourning. The main purpose of this bill is to exclude from the scope of independent judicial proceedings all cases that are important to the state, any cases that restrict the power of state, and to refer to the jurisdiction of a court-martial supervised by a government for political purposes. This proposal, if adopted by the House, will make the citizen defenceless against the state, making the right to politics vulnerable. Minister Trócsányi believes that judicial independence is a standing star. Unfortunately, we see on the part of the Democratic Coalition that this standing star is only admired remotely by the government, but getting close to it is afraid. The historical memory of my fellow Members is very incomplete. Because they do remember well that independent administrative justice was abolished around the communist takeover of power as part of the measures taken at that time to abolish the rule of law; in this they are right. They only forget that, at the time of the change of regime, the rule of law was restored in 1990, and that administrative jurisdiction was restored, the possibility of judicial review of administrative decisions, and that the relevant court organisation was created within the normal judicial system. [[10.50]] There is, therefore, administrative judicial action in Hungary today, and there is still an appeal procedure against state decisions, and there is still a judicial counterweight that slows the functioning of the government. Your objective is to cut off this counterweight, just to eliminate this brake, so that there is no court control and control over your decisions. Because what powers would this court have? I will give you a few examples: election cases, assembly rights cases, public disclosure of data of general interest. A case in which the Fidest or the government has been curbed by judicial authority over the past few years has been curbed by the law. You can't stand it. They can't stand the fact that, in election, assembly, or the publicity of public information, there are court decisions that are contrary to your intentions. That is why we need this administrative court system, which you are proposing now, and that is why you are proposing an administrative court system that is included in this bill. Of course, this court system will decide not only on these matters, but also on a number of other matters, which will also determine the lives of citizens at the level of everyday life. This will decide on any dispute between the state and the citizens, whether it is decisions on higher education recruitments or whether it is the official affairs of businesses. This court will also oversee the municipalities. Then you will receive a tool from the government through which you can regulate the too independent, perhaps, not give . god, opposition-led self-governments. So we have no other way, so we have nothing but a fundamental responsibility as opponents, using the wonderful image of Congressman Vejkey, to ring the alarm in a siren tone, and to draw attention to the fact that this proposal is unacceptable, illegal, this proposal is not for the benefit of the citizens, but only for the benefit of the government. Let me give you some examples of this: one is the administrative model. In this model, the self-government is a game, a circus, everything is in the hands of the minister. The minister decides on the budget, the minister makes the personal decisions, the personnel system, he sets out where to work, the minister decides who to be senior officials. It is true that there are all kinds of hearings and committees, but the substantive decision at the end is made by the minister. The minister decides who should be able to get into this system at all. Of course, judicial applications have such a committee, the composition of which can be debated, but it does not matter who is involved in the preparatory committee, as the minister is free to deviate from the decision of this committee. So we must say that the Minister exercises in this system essentially all the powers that the President of the National Court Office, and much more, while we also see, in the case of the National Court Office, how the Government is trying to use the National Court Office to undermine the independence of the courts. Fortunately, there it is far less successful, because there it is faced with judges who have not only the knowledge of the law, but also the commitment to the judicial profession and the courage and courage to hold on to the judicial profession. Here comes the second main problem. 'Cause who's gonna be judges here? They didn't dare to fire every administrative judge currently in office, that's all right, but from here on out, you can recharge this court with virtually anyone who comes from the state administration. In addition, as I just said, it will essentially be the Minister's decision to select from among the candidates. After all, the Minister listens to the applicants, and we are excited to hear from my fellow Members about the depth and depth of these hearings, and then the Minister essentially decides on his own. Moreover, persons who do not have any judicial practice may be appointed to this court, if they have worked in the public administration. Now, fellow Members, this is what really reminds me of the Bolshevik times: comrade, you will be sent to the administrative court, as a party task, it will be up to you to meet our expectations there. Otherwise, there would normally be very serious policy reservations. What's this about? The decision must be made in the debate between the public administration and the citizen, and then we will send someone in there, to be more precise, someone who has spent the rest of his life in the administration, who represents the logic, the approach that is personally involved in this relationship, and we expect him to make independent decisions in the debate between his former colleagues and the citizen. It is no coincidence that the judge is a self-employed profession, and that most judges spend the rest of their lives dealing with it, because this is the guarantee of independence, this is the guarantee that he is committed to the judicial profession, and not to other interests, other attitudes and other logic. Let me give you this third example of the real balance of power, it is very well illustrated by the conciliation procedure that is required between the traditional courts, the normal courts and the administrative courts that are now being established. For the record, the use of the word that calls ordinary courts a normal court, and otherwise, is very revealing; it is clear that these are not ordinary courts, but institutions created for special purposes, which are also a strong exaggeration to call a court, I could say that it is a blasphemous praise. So, in the case of a different interpretation of the law of ordinary courts and administrative courts, if the legal intention which any other court, the ordinary court or administrative court, intends to take, is contrary to a previous decision of a legal unit of law or even a judicial decision of a principle, then there is a conciliation procedure. But it is quite clear that the administrative court does not yet have legal unit decisions, there are no previous decisions, there is no type of law that should be adapted there, in Hungarian: this institution actually opens up the possibility of calling into question previous judicial decisions in the administrative sector, of reviewing them, of repealing the interpretation decisions. This is only to ensure that the previously established case law can be scanned out of the history of Hungarian law and, instead, it is completely free to take decisions of the new administrative court, in a type of system where the representatives of the administrative court and the ordinary court sit in half, and one majority of the votes can be decided. If this were a fair procedure, a consensus decision would obviously be required between the two courts. But it's not that, they sit down, and it's enough for one judge, the Supreme Court, pardon, the judge sent by the Curia, who will vote for the administrative court, and you can already overwrite anything. Similarly, it is also worth mentioning a very exciting part of this regulation that the administrative court may, in essence, take any matter into account in this system, so that its powers are not limited solely to administrative types of law. Where you think that the state is involved, you can bring it to you, and then another conciliation begins, in Hungarian, which is important, it can be sent to the administrative court with a bit of force. All in all, I must say that this kind of judicial regulation does not comply with the principles of the rule of law, does not comply with the independence of the court, does not correspond in any way to the kind of development of law that started after the change of regime during the democratic republic. They want to take down almost one of the last institutions of the democratic republic. Of course, you can say that this is constitutional, because it was carved into the granite-solid basic law in an emergency procedure before the summer break, but that does not make it a rule of law, and I would add that it will not comply with the other provisions of the Fundamental Law, which guarantee judicial independence. The Minister says that the mandate can be withdrawn from court leaders, but the payment will be due to them, in Strasbourg. This may be the case because Strasbourg criticises specific violations, but does not meet the requirements of the rule of law. The European Union's expectations of how the judicial body should operate are clearly contradicted by this measure and by the bill as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth looking at what case is being dealt with against Poland today, to be more precise: the Polish Government, which tries to subdue the court organisation in a similar way. [[11.00]] And I know, of course, your position in principle is that they are not important, we have seen, perhaps yesterday, that even the Romanian Government is considered by the Fidesz MEPs to be excellent, and that there is no rule of law problem, but I must say that Europe is an important rule of law against you, and Europe will take action to defend the rule of law. When the Minister talks about parliamentary responsibility, this really means political control, the intention when it comes to public interest, the representation of party interests. The court, a proper court, must follow the law, not the public interest that you presume, not the parliamentary control. This court proposal is not appropriate, so the Democratic Coalition is forced to reject it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2018-11-14-14	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt László Keresztes, head of the LMP faction and lead speaker; you have the floor, please.
u2018-11-14-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I have had the pleasure of hearing Minister's exposé, his introduction to the legislative proposals, and I regret that there is no Minister in the debate now and that he cannot hear opposition criticisms and opposition responses. Minister began to present the legislative proposals with a scientific and professional introduction, but I am of the opinion that it is not a scientific, not a professional debate that must be held here. This is, in fact, the preparation of a political decision, and in this respect, a political debate must be held on it. These two legislative proposals have very serious and serious political consequences, which is obvious and precisely attributable to the government and to the Minister. Therefore, in addition to the very impressive presentation of the history of science with many international outlooks, which he did, Minister, but was also deceptive, given that the aim was not to create this kind of change, we can say, in some respects a legitimate change in the Hungarian legal order, but to further strengthen the power of the governing party and the government. So, in my opinion, this issue should be a political debate, not a professional debate. I should also add that Minister said that the re-introduction of this system could be an important step in the history of Hungarian law, let us say; there were a long history of this. But I have to say, and I am confirmed by the strong criticisms of my fellow opposition Members, that this change will actually mean a dark period of Hungarian law history if it is implemented in this form. During the summer period, the Parliament held a general debate on the preparation, and the opposition expressed very serious concerns. I believe that these concerns have largely been achieved, and we can now see in the detailed proposals that these opposition criticisms and professional criticisms have indeed been justified, which have been formulated in many directions in the period before the summer holiday. We do not argue with that, it is quite clear that the system of separate administrative jurisdiction in itself is indeed relevant, since this had a priori in Hungary from 1896 to 1949. It is also acceptable that this system should also be introduced in such a way that it does indeed serve the declared objectives. The LMP has also said many times in recent years that it is visible that since the change of regime, the system of administrative justice in Hungary has actually been in an unworthy and unthinkable situation. In fact, there may be agreement or agreement that it is necessary to touch the system, it is necessary to enter the system. After all, there are concrete obstacles to control of the legitimate functioning of the public administration and to the establishment of adequate control. However, this cannot in any way be achieved in a way that we now see, unfortunately, that a system is being created that is capable of increasing government influence and reducing the independence of the courts. Unfortunately, these concerns, mentioned by the Minister, have been confirmed. Mr. Minister mentioned in his introduction that he could see or sense that opposition representatives were suspicious of this procedure, this process, before the detailed text of the law could be known. I think the answer has actually been given, Minister, unfortunately these suspicions have not been unfounded. I must say, therefore, before I go into the criticism of the legislative proposals in detail, that the LMP also considers it unacceptable. At the same time, we believe it is important that, in line with the principles that we have described and described in detail, which have been presented in writing, we will be proposing amendments to this bill in order to ensure that the most important concerns, the most important problems, can be eliminated in this bill. Of course, we will present these amendments today. Then let us look in detail at the concerns that you do not understand, Minister. Two years ago, a process really started, but the government failed to implement it in the absence of a two-thirds majority, which would have prepared this system. There have been detailed discussions in this process, and there have already been guarantees that could have led this very significant transformation in the right direction. At the same time, these guarantee elements have now been removed from this proposal and are not included. In this way, it is clear that the government, with a strong two-thirds majority, no longer considered it important for these guarantee elements to be included in the proposal. The most important problem, and I agree with my fellow Member who spoke before me, is the kind of administrative governance that is being implemented by the Minister. In the present situation and under these conditions, it is entirely unjustified and cannot be justified that this kind of management should be carried out in this way. It is clear that a direct say in the practice of judicial action is not possible, however, and this has also been said by the Member before me, in a way where the Minister can practically say who can be a member of this court. Indeed, we can see in the proposal a description of the procedure under which judges are selected, but the Minister can override this, in fact arbitraryly exercise his extremely unjustified and wide-ranging rights. In such a system, it is completely unjustified to give the Minister the discretion to make such decisions himself, regardless of the fact that different bodies stand up and what will be their position on this. In fact, everything can be overruled by the minister. In itself, you can practically develop a system where decisions can then be made on extremely serious and politically sensitive issues. This is the most important problem with this proposal and this political initiative. In fact, you are free to choose the first court leaders of the new system and shape the whole system according to your own intentions by 2020. It is also a worrying problem that some judges may come from public administration. There may also be a real problem of competence as to whether, despite their administrative experience, these lawyers have the skills, the qualities that are necessary for the proper judicial activity and are developed through multi-annual judicial practice. We are certainly concerned that judges who do not have this attitude may be included in the system, since they have socialised in a very different way in their previous professional work. There may also be a specific conflict of interest problem, as they may meet as judges in cases in which they have otherwise acted as officials. It is also a very serious problem, and this has also been mentioned in the process two years ago, that it is not recorded that these administrative courts can only deal with administrative disputes. After all, the proposal deals with the possibility of other cases being referred here. Then there is a suspicion that politically sensitive matters may be brought into this system, a system where the executive authority is practically the administrative director and creator. It is, in itself, an unjustified lack of a guarantee that once again cannot be explained by the fact that there has actually been a legal legislation. Here, Minister, in his introduction, he mentioned that these certain guarantee elements and conflict of interest elements cannot be overvalued. But why weren't these born in sufficient depth? Two years ago, the LMP presented a proposal on this, where we would specify in detail who we would exclude, precisely because of the political sensitivity of cases, from this system. We would clearly rule out those who were party officials in the last five years, started as party candidates, held state leadership positions, performed government commissioners, prime minister commissioners, minister commissioners, held government positions, and held a public office for which Parliament elected them. We definitely consider this kind of a very strong and clear rule of conflict of interest to be necessary and therefore we are also proposing an amendment to this. Here, the majority of governments can prove what their intentions are with the bill. [[11.10]] We consider transparency to be very important in the selection process; so calls for proposals, applications, tender materials and examination requirements should all be made public, and in cases where the candidate concerned, not proposed for appointment, would be justified in this case as well. This is, in any case, a necessary and unavoidable step in increasing confidence and creating control in such a transformation. We consider it a serious problem, although I should point out that, on the basis of what has been said, we do not consider the regional hand to be the most important and serious problem, as this in itself gives us very serious difficulties in cases of minor gravity, in order to say that we should be able to reach a neighbouring county seat with poor transport opportunities. Therefore, we consider it justified, and we have tabled it before, and we are now submitting an amendment that initiates the establishment of case points at the county seat. We would, of course, regulate in detail what kind of cases we would consider important, in the smaller cases, to make this feasible in the county seats. Obviously, this could also cause a major transport logistics problem, but certainly not like in the case of a regional hand. So, overall, I can say that the initiative itself, so that a separate administrative judicial system is established, is not a despicable and could have been implemented in any way in a way that improves the situation of the forward-looking and Hungarian rule of law. However, in this form, this proposal will have exactly the opposite effect, and the LMP, together with the submission of amendments to it, will reject this by voting. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-16	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congresswoman Timea Szabó, we can listen to her, please.
u2018-11-14-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We know precisely in the debate on this bill that this is not a professional debate, and it is not a matter of conflicting technical arguments, but of a tough political debate, because here a political decision was taken when this court was set up. The fact that László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice will appoint the superior judges in one person is not, to say the least, a professional issue that could be debated. This is a political influence that we know exactly what this bill is about. My dear colleague Imre Vejkey. I can't stop saying a sentence! There are so many thieves, corrupt, lying congressmen in this House. You're not like that. Don't let them mop the floor with you when you say such things and read that the Soros, Brussels, I don't know what triumvirate...! Even you laughed when you said that. We know that you don't mean any of your words, and we know that this is not, by the way, a professional approach to the issue. So the question is again, then, that this is a political or professional debate. I'm asking that at least some of you here really keep what you've represented before or in the past. With regard to this law, I can only repeat what we said this summer about the debate of the Fundamental Law, that unfortunately the fears that we had just suspected at the time were true, that this bill was nothing more than a Fidesz court. Neither László Trócsányi nor the government could explain why such a court was needed, why the changes were necessary. There is increasing secrecy, we know that the Venice Commission is also investigating the matter, and, to say the least, we have not received any answers to the questions. It is quite clear that with this step, Viktor Orbán wants to establish a Fidesz court because the majority of the government wants to get rid of administrative judges of the professionally autonomous Curia. That's how simple the question is. Viktor Orbán himself sent a message after the election, and I quote that the Curia did not grow intellectually to its task. According to the Supreme Court, he intervened heavily in the election after he upheld the decision of the National Election Committee, which had rightly taken a mandate from Fidesz by annulment of a letter vote from over 4,000 borders. We know exactly what the EP election is about to do. You have submitted the bill so that Hungarians across the border can vote again only by letter. It's likely there'll be another election scam here, probably the Curia will cancel it again. This is what you want to prevent the Curia from making a fair decision in this, and your party soldiers from making a decision that would benefit your mandates. Or let us also think of the cases that have taken place at the initiative of the Fidesz Commissioner for Accountancy, which have come to the point of indictment at all. We know it wasn't much like that. The courts gave a partial acquittal, partly with substantially lower sanctions than expected, and then last year, let us recall that Gyula Budai simply came to the whole Hungarian court. In view of this, it is difficult to view this proposal as simply political revenge. You are aware that such a degree of political revenge against the Supreme Court judges was last seen during the reprisals after the 1956 Revolution. According to the current draft, the Fidesz Supreme Court will be filled with people loyal to the government, government officials with legal exams, who have socialised in a completely different context compared to those who have passed the ladder. We have no doubt about that. There can be no independence in the public administration, and you know it, because the system is clearly based on a subordination relationship. In practice, we have said this many times, we will say that László Trócsányi will decide on the appointments of judges in one person on sensitive, politically sensitive and sensitive matters such as media matters, election cases, public procurement cases or even assembly. By the way, by November this year, the number of administrative judges should have been raised by two hundred on the basis of a decision from last year, so the courts will have reliable Fidesz soldiers; now there is room for this. And if the judges appointed by László Trócsányi, who made a stick, can decide on disputes between the state and its citizens, who have previously become accustomed to taking orders, we know precisely that they will find it difficult to get rid of. Think about what such a judge or court would do if it were to be an embarrassing matter for Viktor Orbán, if, say, a billion-dollar VAT dealer, an entrepreneur close to the government, did not give up, István Tiborcz's award of public procurement, an objection affecting the outcome of the elections, or perhaps the assessment of an embarrassing public interest request for data for the government. We know what we can expect in the case of a judge appointed by you. This is one part of your desire to use this new Fidesz court for political purposes; there are other, much more banal reasons for creating this: that you love to steal, and you refuse to give up this habit. They intend to continue to drain EU funds and refuse to examine public procurement, or, obviously, if there is any problem with the acquisition of these EU public procurements, they will be assigned to this new Fidesz judge employed by the new Fidesz court. Neither political revenge, my fellow Members, nor any further expansion of EU public procurement will be allowed, and you know it very well that the Venice Commission is also examining this whole issue. We will go through the appropriate forums necessary to prevent this process. Let's look at what I said in a little bit more detail. The most effective intention to amend the draft is to set up a separate administrative court system. The government simply wants revenge on the administrative judges of the Curia. The original proposal of the Minister of Justice is not at all about the fact that the Curia would cease to be the main body of the judicial system. The Administrative Supreme Court would have originally been placed under the Curia in the organizational system. Now, however, the majority of the government, which had terminated the independent administrative college of the Supreme Court six years ago and has not wanted to change the function of the Curia for two years, suddenly realizes that there is a need for a fully independent supreme administrative court. The turn on the new court, which is of major importance for the Hungarian rule of law, was prepared behind closed doors, neither the legal profession nor the public could be informed of the details. The importance of this is very serious. Organisational changes open the way for political intervention in the work of the courts through taxation, public procurement, and the rest, as I have already said on several occasions, on election issues. If the government's plan is implemented, the stealth coup against the Hungarian rule of law will triumph forever. [[11.20]] When the first news of the transformation came out, in 2016, the National Court of Justice Office was critical of the government's plans, the OBH also asked the same question as to why, in addition to the formal similarities, the system of justice was being changed so significantly. To this day, we have not heard any answers from you. In fact, there have been no serious specific problems with the work of the courts currently dealing with administrative matters. According to the Council of Europe's 2018 report on the judicial system of Member States, the Hungarian courts are effective, and, compared to other European courts, they quickly take decisions on administrative matters, both at the first and the highest level, and the current judicial system also allows for a fair review of the main administrative decisions. Compared to this, the government has not provided any tangible evidence as to why the current system should be completely reworded. The OBH concluded its cited report by saying that there is therefore no need for administrative judicial action, but only to further develop it. The government argues that the new courts will work better because they will have special knowledge. We know that this is not true, because the courts still have specific procedures and working groups to analyse administrative matters and respond to specific situations. In recent decades, judges in administrative matters have accumulated considerable experience and knowledge, so the courts are now prepared to bring justice to citizens. More people are afraid that, as a result of the government's manoeuvre, former public sector workers will enter justice once separate administrative courts stand up. This is hardly going to go smoothly. While independence is the key issue in the case of a judge, loyalty to the government is required in the evening of a government official. If many former civil servants were brought to the newly created courts, a clear government-friendly attitude could arise, and real, effective supervision of administrative decisions could be put at risk. The government's argument also slylyly suggests that there is currently no possibility of examining the legality of municipal decrees. This is not true, the Constitutional Court already decided in 1990 that there should be an appeal against all administrative decisions. The decision taken in the first year of the change of regime and the subsequent practice of the Constitutional Court were a guarantee that judicial control over the legislation would be complete. This is why there is no need to establish independent administrative courts, since the system is already in place. Another important problem is that there is no public consultation on the draft legislation, as I referred to earlier, and the last time the wallet provided only five days for the opinion of draft laws calling for the new system in the context of the so-called social debate. According to the Minister of Justice, the concept of new regulation was adopted by the government, which was prepared by a working committee of court leaders and memoranda of recognized representatives of Hungarian law, including professors and leaders of legal faculties. We asked about it earlier, but the Ministry did not publish the participants in the deliberations and the content of the preparatory work for data requests in the public interest either. The reorganization of this important area of justice would have required thorough justification, serious preparation and extensive public consultation, and the government was indebted to all of them. On the other hand, it shows extraordinary activity in the occupation of independent institutions and the press, as well as in retaliation against judges who publicly undertake to preserve their independence. All these are not only ominous omens, but also things that directly threaten the Hungarian rule of law and the independence of justice. The provision on the establishment of a judicial organisation supports all of this. In 2019, half of the judicial places established after the reception of the judges can be filled by the government in a procedure surrounded by apparent guarantees with persons who are at least 30 years of legal and professional experience working for at least one year. In the case of the President of the Administrative Court and the President of the Administrative Court, the President of the Administrative Supreme Court may, in essence, be elected by a qualified and qualified person of at least 30 years, who has worked in legal capacity for at least 10 years. There is no reason for the Minister to appoint new judges from the new judges for a year, not even a formal tender procedure. Even in the case of new judges to be appointed after the transitional period, the government can fill them with persons it likes in a procedure surrounded by apparent guarantees. The guarantees of the appointments of court leaders are equally lacking. In the light of the rules of appointment of judges and court leaders, it is clear that both the appointments of judges and the appointments of court leaders provide an opportunity for the Minister of Justice to appoint a candidate of his choice from among the candidates. The real limit to this is only the impossibility of appointing completely unsuitable candidates. We know exactly the point system, but I'm really sorry to put it this way, he's gonna filter out the dumbest ones, not the most loyal ones. In the case of appointments, the pre-screening opinion board shall be partially professional in the transitional period and the staff council of the OKBT after the transitional period. Members may be nominated by organisations where government enforcement can be enveloped: Parliamentary Committee, Attorney General, Ministry and others. The criteria for the objective scoring of candidates are not transparent in any way, even if you claim otherwise, how important is, for example, outstanding administrative knowledge and what is the nature of it. With subjective points, however, political loyalty is well rewarded. If, however, a list of possible judges or court leaders is drawn up that does not comply with the Minister of Justice's ideas, the Minister may, on a reasoned basis, derogate from it and may delegate the list to another person for appointment or to appoint another leader. The problem alone is not that the Minister of Justice has been given the power to address the appointments of judges here, but that before the reform of 98, the minister had serious powers, but that the appointment process is part of entities that, under the conditions of competence, have political implications. In the process of appointment, redress is unacceptablely limited, only on the basis of objective points. This is not the hour of immediate questions, but although Minister has left the debate here, we would like some important things to be answered here by the government, for example, why the judges of the opinion committee should be drawn. What is the reason for the majority of delegated members in the opinion committee, the OKBT personal committee? What are the criteria for the allocation of so-called objective points, how do outstanding administrative legal knowledge and practical experience count, and what exactly does this expression mean? What is the purpose of assigning subjective points if you have said that there is actually no subjectivity of any kind here? Why is there no appeal against the ministerial decision? We know that, in the absence of redress, EU bodies can also express serious concerns and that not only the Venice Commission, but others can seriously condemn this legislation. The answer to the question is that the system could work if more warranty rules could be included, the minister would be given more limited powers, but under the current circumstances the system will become a NER server. We know, then, that once again it is not a professional issue, it is not a draft legislation that has been passed through a professional debate; it is also a tough political decision. Even though you refer to international examples here in the European Union, we know exactly that there is no precedent for setting up a justice system at this level, which is in hand only dependent on the Minister in Europe. We also know that the metropolitan forensic judges were assigned to the regional level and not to the supreme court because then that quasi-quota would be filled, and then the minister would not be able to appoint new people or new judges for such sensitive matters. I repeat, we are talking about things such as media issues, assembly issues, public procurement issues and similar things that have a fundamental impact on the Hungarian rule of law and democracy. We know that the Supreme Court is investigating these issues, so it is quite incomprehensible why not just the county, why the metropolitan court judges were ordered to this lower level, why not to the top. But we know exactly why this happened. [[11.30]] Minister László Trócsányi said earlier that they would wait for the resolution of the Venice Commission on the submission of the law, but this did not happen, but they submitted it quickly. You seem to want to accept it very soon, and you want to start a system in January that will set up a court for the EP election that can effectively cover up election fraud. It is therefore quite clear why you urge the adoption of this law, why you want to adopt this whole law at all, contrary to the position of the profession, of all kinds of bodies, and why you did not wait for the opinion of the Venice Commission. On the one hand, on behalf of the Dialogue, I call on you to withdraw this bill and at least wait for the Venice Commission's proposals, and if the Venice Commission says that everything is okay with this, there is no abuse of this new administrative court, there is little likelihood that the Venice Commission will say this, then we will discuss this whole issue again, but we will also ask why you are keeping secrets, why you will not publish your composition for public interest data claims. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Public!]] and why they even want to set up this court. Thank you.
u2018-11-14-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fact is that we have a lot of understanding here in Parliament about how Fidesz and KDNP cross the red lines that lead the country out of the rule of law and democracy, and I would like to stress that this is another red line we are talking about here. I find it completely ridiculous, even outrageous, that they are trying to talk about different siren sounds from the government side in a totally humiliating way. We are not talking about George Soros, Brussels and Strasbourg in connection with this law, we are talking about you and what you want to do with this country. If someone in this House is speaking about not putting their dirty hands on justice after the grinding and occupation of state institutions, it is not a siren voice, but an opposition representative; this is what we are talking about here. We knew that this was coming, and we saw it, and the most outrageous thing for you is that, as if you were testing this country, what is it that you can still go to, what is the point you can still do with Hungary. Now they're testing us again to see if we're going to give justice to Fidesz, because that's what we're talking about. What kind of cases are we talking about? What is the meaning of this word, which we are talking about, is administrative competence: affairs of state authority, electoral affairs, tax administration procedures, right of assembly, foreign support for civilians, public procurement, public interest data requests. I have talked a lot about spending more time in court than in Parliament in recent years; not because I am lazy, but because I was able to do things there. You didn't tell us, we were told that Merry Christmas and that the Prime Minister was hiding behind the curtains and the rest of them when he didn't want to answer, and we were sitting in the courts, and that Trocsányi Minister's office defended the government against me in the Paks cases, who appeared here at the beginning of the debate, and then left. It would have been nice to see the minister here. Secretary of State isn't enough for that. It's not that big a deal. It's a little more serious than that. So I don't know what the Minister is doing, but I resent that he's not here, he should be... [[Dr. Pál Völner: He's in a government meeting!]] I don't care if he's in a government meeting, he's in parliament. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Try to make time to listen to what we have to say. In fact, I'll tell you something hard, Mr. Secretary of State: the Prime Minister should be here, and he should answer these questions. The independence of justice is a fundamental aspect of the rule of law and democracy, and you are breaking it down. I don't care if he's on vacation or at a Rolling Stones concert, or wherever the minister is, be here on such matters. [[Zoltán Tessely: Where are you?]] Who? I am an independent Member, honourable Member. On the one hand, don't yell at me, be nice, because this isn't the forum where you can yell at me about where I am. Well, I'm here, and I'm about to hold a press conference. So, what's bothering you? Let's talk a little bit about what's bothering you. Tao grant case; Paks cases were held in court. I won against the Ministry of National Economy, and we learned the extent to which different strategic agreements are tax incentives for individual companies. The case of the Roman-coastal referendum, the Curia, has made the right decision. Stop campaign, after the elections, this was a very topical issue when we learned that no state propaganda or government propaganda could be called an information campaign unless it was really about information; I won that lawsuit. There were scandals that we won in court. The whole media situation is a scandal, and despite that, we were still able to do things in the courts. We have learned things, we have said these things, we have written them down, and overall we have been able to inform the public about a number of issues that should have been spoken to you, honourable ministers, here in Parliament voluntarily and singing. I'm not exaggerating, and I'm not siren and Soros and Brussels, and I don't know what it is to say that what you're trying to fool through this country is coming to the level of Turkey of Erdoğan and Russia of Putin. Another red line, I can't stress it. I listened to this debate here, and seriously, I do not know what you will say here later in the debate, but it was amazing. They said that there is such a system in Europe. Please, the settlement bonds are also working, but they are not used to stuff the pockets of the local Rogán; the inventor could not be a minister, because there is no propagandaistery, and I could continue. Don't do this to mess up the world's legal systems here, and then they'll put together a construction that means the death of democracy and the public in Hungary, and they'll say, "Here, here, eat it, there's one in France and Italy and here and there." What's this? ! This is Hungary, and we want independent courts here. Then they say it's happened before. For God's sake, there was a kingdom before that and an Austro-Hungarian Monarchy! Are you going to submit tomorrow to become an Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, or to become Viktor Orbán the king of the country, or is that what a beautiful time it was when there was a kingdom? Don't make a reference to that. And then they say that this separation would increase the quality. What quality are you talking about? On the one hand, the EP has a 2018 report; I did not look into it as a lawyer, and they gave a pretty commendable statement about the Hungarian courts. And when I was still in faction, we regularly gave money to the courts so that they could speed things up, and Hungarian citizens did not have to wait years to find out what the verdict was. It's not the courts' fault, it's your fault, among other things, who don't give enough money and resources. By the way, there are special procedures and working groups, so there is no need to redefine the whole court system because they say they will be better at it in the new system; they will not be better at it. And what's gonna happen? Minister Trócsányi will have a good time: what we didn't like at the current OBH, Tünde Hando, for example, is that he has failed to declare tenders, or he has deviated from the tender ranking, and the minister will receive those powers as he is, without any change. Why Tünde Hando was criticized, and now Minister Trocsányi will receive the criticism, he will not be fundamentally disturbed by this, nor was he disturbed by the fact that the law firm he owned defended the government against an opposition representative. Well, these are the times we live in. Once again, you're in very dangerous waters, there's no guarantee in this law. I'm not going to be a lawyer, I'm going to see this threat politically, just as you have made this law politically, that's the truth. Loyal judges may come, good cadres may come, political appointees will be able to rule the courts. Election cases, public procurement cases, a lot of money, public interest data requests, tough cases, in which the opposition was quite active. And then it is expected that the best cadre will come, who has already told me that he will never, in his stinking life, let pass the Paks II referendum question, and that is also announced in the media personally by András Patyi. That's what you hear rumors about, and you can see his movement, that he's also preparing for this position. Now you can hear other rumors that he has some competition, we don't know what will happen, anyway András Patyi is the perfect cadre for Fidesz. We also remember Lex Patyira, although I made a small summary: there was lex Schmitt, lex Borkai, lex Polt, lex Szász, lex Baranyai, lex Töröcskei, lex Vida, lex Domokos, lex CEU. You have different lexes here if you're trying to favor a kisser or if you're trying to take someone down. They wanted to favor Patty, he got his lex, they want CEU, he got his lex. What are you talking about? ! How does it even morally occur at Fidesz-KDNP that they're coming in here after all, and they're starting to do these historical treatise about how good it used to be, because they used to be like that? ! But you weren't here a long time ago, that's the thing. It used to be different, yeah, but now it is. [[11.40]] And then let's just say what we're talking about here. It's about the Fidesz judges coming. The Minister of Justice will be their boss, and an organisation ruled by Fidesz will decide on issues such as matters of state power, election cases, for example, tax investigations, right of assembly, foreign support for civilians, public procurement, requests for data in the public interest. That's your goal. Everything else that you and your lawyers have put together for us here is the realization of that. But that's what I want to talk to you about, how do you think you're gonna put your dirty hands on that right now? And there is no other political explanation for this than the fact that the country is being tested, what we can do about it now. I would also like to mention a practical aspect, by the way, that we should think a little with the heads of citizens, because we will be talking about social security, social and child protection, benefits and subsidies provided by public employment bodies. As I understand it, everyone here will be able to travel to the county seat. I'm kind of in the country right now, looking at the bus and train lines. It will not be easy for the downsizing authorities and vulnerable people to travel to the county seat in all small-scale cases and in major cases, because they have managed to leave this in the law. But the basic problem is that you're going through this red line right here and now, and you're not gonna be able to wash yourself out of it, because we know exactly how Fidesz doesn't work if you can do something, you're gonna miss the ziccer. If this law goes through, the possibility will be that we will not be able to sit in the courts in order to learn what the ministers and the prime ministers should tell us here voluntarily and singing. And the big deal is, they're on dangerous roads, and I'm gonna tell you why that's dangerous. There is an independent justice system in a society so that people have a sense of security, that there is the right and there is the morality that decides in a dispute. This is true for opposition representatives, but it is true for all Hungarian citizens. And what you are doing right now: shut down the valves where we can find justice in this country; where we can say that we can do our job as opposition representatives. What then, Honourable Secretary of State minus a minister who should be here if all the valves are blocked? What will happen to this country, what will the Hungarian people do? Tell me and think about this. They sailed into very dangerous waters. You accuse us of not knowing that we want to make a revolution and do all sorts of things, but you are the ones who virtually systematically kill every opportunity where a person's sense of justice can take its place, saying that there is still justice in this world. You create a world where there is no justice, where there is only Fidesz and the fidesz cadre, and there are the people who kneeled down to you. We will not kneel to you! Come what must come, we will play this game, but whatever comes next will be your responsibility, whatever it is. Thank you. [[Applause from the DK and Dialogue benches.]]
u2018-11-14-20	Dear Parliament, We could now have two-minute speeches, but since no one's coming forward, logically, this is not going to happen. What follows, however, is the hearing of the views of the speakers who have been announced. First, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pick up where my colleague, Mr Bernadett, left off. [[A statement from the governing parties' benches: It will be difficult!]] Although, of course, the... [[Towards the benches of the governing parties:]] Would you like some? , of course, softer than my temper, but in content about that. I also told you yesterday about the amendment of the Defense Act, only then perhaps no one from the people sitting here was here that these laws were two-edged weapons. Let's start by modeling in their heads what will happen if these laws you have created will even have to be enforced against you. I want you to model that someday it won't be your power in this country. Although my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, spoke of a red line that had been crossed, I think there is only one thing that has been left out of their legislation in recent months, and this is the people. Believe me, a very large percentage of Hungarian citizens in Hungary live in such a desperate and difficult situation that they have nothing left to lose. When we talk about power arrogance, I always say that people who feel that they will rule forever miss out on two things: one is biology, the other is God. I believe that Minister Trocsányi in this charade is a character, not even a protagonist, a character actor. Now, in recent years, Minister Trocsányi has suddenly begun to become a, always longing to become a lawyer for the administrative supreme court. At a time when Minister Trocsányi was still a lawyer, he never campaigned with it in his life, and as I know his way of life, even when the conditions for the 1990 regime change were discussed at a certain Opposition Round Table, interestingly no one brought forward the principles that are being drawn up, brought forward today when these laws are being created, and suddenly the past is beautiful. He says the general justification, and Minister in his expo also said that the Communists terminated this kind of court in 49, and we must now establish it 28 years after the democratic transformation, because the time has come. I have two problems with that. One is why at the Opposition Round Table it would have been such a risk to bring this up. At that time, we were only 40 years past that certain 49. Since then, 28 years have passed, so most of the time has become more than 40 years ago, and I might even ask that, with the exception of a short period of 8 years, Fidesz-KDNP has two thirds, so they could have created this institution in the last 8 years, because today I will also talk about it professionally with no professional reason. It is very simple: because they know so much, because there are a lot of real Christian people in this House who are sitting in front of me, who knows precisely that at some point there will come a time when we need help to maintain our power and we need help to keep our secrets from anyone else. And we also need help to make it look like we're very good and good at running a country, because we're not gonna be able to get any more data from the court, and when we don't have any mistakes that the court is gonna misjudge, we're gonna start an all-powerful age. It is a question of knowing precisely that there will be changes, and I would like to drag this on by making it very difficult for citizens to achieve their enforcement in certain types of cases. But what I said at the beginning, there are a lot of people now who have nothing to lose, and no government should play with fire. Today, the ordinary citizen does not know what bill we are discussing here, nor does he know whether this bill is legally justified, whether society needs it, how it fits into the legal system, the history of law is actually what the proposal contains. They will at some point feel that their requests have been settled in the administrative procedure; they have found a positive response when they have submitted a petition, and they may have been able to discuss it with the simple administrator in a really normal and fair way, so that his case can be resolved. But today, he won't have the guarantee he's had, even if the laws accept his wishes. Today, it will depend on someone's interests whether this request can be heard. When the seven-party consultation was held in the Ministry of Justice, Vice-President Csaba Hende said that, but please, we will have more confidence in the judges who will judge the administrative courts than in those administrators who are dealing with administrative proceedings today. [[11.50]] I thought I was going to faint! For eight years, a government has been ruling, and he says that one of the prominent former Minister of Justice, former Minister of Defence, is now Vice-President of Parliament, that he does not trust the offices of his own government. That's what you said, Mr. Secretary of State, you were sitting across from him. And now it's gonna be great, because there's gonna be a level one administrative procedure and a two-degree administrative court case. Well, I'm telling you, I'm sorry, but why did you put it in the law that a simple official from the same administration system could be a judge? If I do not trust that he will make a legal decision today, so I will create a new institution, and then I will bring to this new institution those whom I said I did not trust until now, but now with this system, citizens can trust that their rights will be enforced, this is an amazing schizophrenia! But let's keep going. He says this court is independent. In the law, 47 tasks will be assigned to the minister. Forty-seven! Thus, an independent court whose 47 tasks will be reserved to the Minister in establishing and operating it. But in order for this system to be established, 18 tasks of the minister will be carried out in the transitional arrangements. Please, the Minister defines, appoints, listens to only a generous presentation of the tasks, advertises posts, decides on the recordings, decides on the order of the results achieved during the qualification, and practically the minister is as if he were actually the head of this organization and actually created it, and everything that happens depends on him. Well, what kind of independent court system is this? ! It would have been much easier to admit that we were setting up a department within the Ministry and calling it administrative justice. Of course, that would have been very rude because we have to keep the shape of this whole thing. But let's just think about how you can say the big words here about why this is topical, but I still hope that, although you will not admit it publicly, at least I can see it in your eyes, my fellow Members and State Secretarys, that you know that this law is not about what you have said here, and it is not about what you have said. Because if it were to do so, in each sentence they would have sought never to cross the line where we could question the independence of this judicial organization system. I'd like to go into the details, if you'll allow me. It has already been mentioned, and when the Fundamental Law was amended and the law on the status of judges was previously mentioned, then some opposition candidates have already advocated that they are practically preparing the position of András Patyi as the Supreme Administrative Court President. At the same time, I have always said that this does not go beyond the legislative framework, and otherwise, there were rules already in the old legislative system that might have been introduced specifically for his sake. But I'll tell you something. If I were András Patyi, I wouldn't be elected president of this high court. In this legislation, there is such a limit on this leader, there is a control system built around the minister, that I must tell you that if the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister came up with such an offer for me, or anyone who would take that step, I would tell him to wait for children, that I am an old clown and especially a clown. I've been on a legal trip, I've been a notary of XII. I've been through every election committee president in the district, through a rector, everything, so if you've given me this office, I shouldn't stay in the history of public administration and law by forcing me into the position of a puppet because I barely had the power to make a decision. I know no one's interested on the pro-government side today. But someday, the time will come, and soon, when people will be asked why you gave your name to this, you are a much more honest man. Why did you need this? Did you get paid more? No. Did you have more respect? No. Did they appreciate you better in professional circles? No. Did you have any advantage besides not getting kicked out of that position? No. I know you guys well enough to know that you're not thinking in the short term. You want to go through a life course, and in the end you will be remembered as a man who has cast his vote in good places, done his work fairly, which he touched, came out of it, did not abuse his position, did not abuse the legal possibilities created by either law or lack of it. You are more vain than that to give your soul, body, spirit and position to a good thing. It's so rude that we've been looking for this entire administrative court system, an archaic model that goes back to the past, which is in modern relations today... and always, in our world, since we were lawyers, we've wanted an administrative supreme court and a special administrative court because without it, this country can't exist. Don't make anyone believe that. Don't think anyone believes that. This is really the III. It would look good in Richard, but today it is not a problem in Hungary. Thank God, there's no problem in the organizational system of administrative courts. We have never heard of any problems in the status of judges or in the advancement of judges. Tünde Handó tells us every six months at a forum, either in the media or here in Parliament, how commendable the judgment of the Hungarian courts, based on international surveys, both in speed and quality. We know precisely that administrative judges know their place, they know their role, they know the applicable legislation, and there is a legal framework in which fair and equitable judgments can be made. We know that there is no effective problem, there is no timeliness, unless it is that we want to somehow cement our power for forever or create at least one forum to help us. If that is the case today, I ask you, with great respect, to consider what your name is being given, to consider whether this is really about what a society can adopt today in Hungary. I ask you not to go into the history of law someday when we have experience and the generation of descendants will look at what preceded this, not to remain their names as dark, right, abuse of power and not as Members of Parliament and state leaders representing the effective and most important interests of citizens. Although we can go into the details now and say for another two hours what is good, what is not good, you know this very well, not the new thing for you, but, in the end, I would rather ask you to consider this proposal very carefully. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-14-22	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask the Member whether she wishes to continue to express her opinion in another speech, or simply press it out of habit to apply for a normal word as a representative. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I was thinking, if there's still time...]] There is, of course, a way for you to proceed, so if you would like to speak in a different form as a speaker seeking a normal word, you can proceed.
u2018-11-14-23	Thank you very much. Thank you again, Mr President. The Minister of Justice said in his exposé that almost all administrative judges are expected to switch to this administrative court forum. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We know precisely that this willingness has already been combated, the judges have been declared, and a very small number of judges have indicated that they would like to move to this court. [[12.00]] To be honest, I'm not surprised because the selection, the appointment and then the rating system in this court organization system are much, much worse and less favourable to judges than they are now in the system. It is also true that I see this bill as a test for pudding, which means that if it passes the EU system, whether it is examined by the Venice Commission, and if it does not pass this test in whole or in part, I see a great chance that the General Court system will be transformed into such a form during these four years. So, even for this reason, I find it very dangerous that such a proposal has been brought before this House and it is very likely that it will be voted. Tünde Handó said that there are 197 administrative judges currently in the single court system, and that in order for this administrative court to function, 200 other external administrative experts will be needed. I spoke about these earlier, that Vice-President Csaba Hende does not trust them, but they may be good for judges; or it is possible that there is already a circle among those working in the administration who have received allegiance and think that they will make appropriate judgments in the interests of this government. According to the original 2016 proposal, they wanted to upload at least 50 percent of outside professionals, but at the seven-party meeting they already spoke of 300 new people, so we find that even this is inefficient who will work in this organizational system. We've heard of a county in the last few weeks where all the judges have said they don't want to come over here. Not only because the current system may be safe for them, but also because it has already been mentioned within the walls of the House, eight regions will be created, and the courts will be in these regions, and we have calculated that a significant part of the judges will have to commute back and forth at least 50 to 80 kilometres a day. So it should be remembered that not only will it be difficult for citizens to reach the regional courts, but it will also be much harder for workers themselves to get to their jobs, and for example, for those who bring their children to kindergartens and schools, it will be almost impossible to organise their lives in order to operate in this organizational system. By the way, in our proposals to the IM, we wrote that I am so old that I remember the debate or the polemia that they wanted to place the Constitutional Court in Esztergom. At the time, however, they said that this did not happen, that it was not possible to organize its infrastructure, its availability, and they did not say, what was real, that the Constitutional judges simply refused to leave, because most of them lived in or around Budapest, and those living in the countryside were much easier to reach Budapest. Today, I think that this upper administrative court in Esztergom, even if they pay very well those who will work there, will again not like the incredibly bottlenecks of Route 10 and Route 11 to go there to work. Although it is a fact, we hear that the M0 may finally be completed from Northern Buda to West Buda, it alone will not extend the bottlenecks of these two extremely difficult roads. When the bill was presented, it was mentioned in XXVI of 1886. This article was about the creation of these courts. The weird thing for us is that when it was prepared, and in this respect I am amazed at Barna Hajas, when this proposal was tabled, they quoted the legislation at that time, and they actually perceived that there was already a reason to set up these special administrative courts, and now it is time after 130 years to revive it, which the Communists had abolished in 49. They just didn't look at the justification of the 1886 Law, why the powers there were created from the appointment, through the selection, the leadership, the report, and so forth! It was already there 130 years ago that politics could not agree on how to establish this court in such a way that it could be completely independent. Politics and the profession didn't trust each other there either. So all we do is after 130 years, politics and the profession walk into the same trap. Today, it is precisely the same mistrust that dominates this area, as is the case today that the government is terrified that certain issues that are important to independent judges for the functioning of the government or that do not question any wrong decisions of the government are not at risk today. So what I would like to say, honourable Members and honourable author, is that we should not be giving much of an example with this period of 1886, because, as we can see, it was not better in this respect either. So we are not talking about the creation of a perfectly functioning institution in the past, beautifully, with a huge consensus, but we are talking about decisions dictated by exactly the same coercion; that is another matter, we must not forget that there was a first World War II during its operation. So the fact that this institution actually worked effectively does not mean that there is any data in the world that makes it necessary to start adapting that system in 2018. Article 1 Paragraph 2 of the Act states that the Presidents of the Tribunals shall cooperate with the President of the Administrative Supreme Court in order to achieve the objectives of the law. He's cooperating. Why? Why do you have to put something like that in a law like that? On the one hand, in the administrative system and in the judicial system, officials who have a duty to each other cooperate naturally on the basis of specific powers, but why should this be explicitly described as cooperating? A Forensic President would not cooperate with the President of the Supreme Court of Public Administration, since they belong to one organization, one of which has been subdelegated to the other on a matter of staff, in the court's system of duties, in the allocation of cases, over and above each other! For example, this word "co-operating" has so much degraded at the beginning of the law the kind of independence and the justice of independent, just laws that it is amazing! I told you about the second phase of the first chapter, I'm sorry, it's Esztergom; and here comes the location of the courts, the regional courts. I myself took a look at the designated location of the regions, looked at the area that would be affected, and looked at both the Volánbusz and the MÁV in these areas and how the dates were. Imagine that in one case, there is a chance that within one day the person concerned will go to court and go home, and this is if the trial begins at noon; if he can come sooner or later, then he can't come back that day, or he can't go home that day. So for me, for example, it is strange that they want to make such a huge change, and there was no son of man who modeled, for example, that a citizen, if he really wanted to appear before the law, and why he would not want to appear, so that the principle of directness should not be corrupted for a moment or even a percentage, even if there is legal representation and electronic procedure and written preparation and all, but at least let the citizen feel that he can go to a court and face to the man who will judge his case is impossible to get away. Article 8 Paragraph 5 of this Article concerns the fact that it is not possible to elect a member of an administrative judicial board against whom disciplinary proceedings are pending. [[12.10]] We have already objected to this in other laws that this gives rise in an extraordinary way to the possibility that a leader should not be abused so as not to elect officials from the judiciary who might not agree with the leaders. In fact, Tünde Handó is the person of this main attraction in Hungary, because disciplinary proceedings have been launched against judges who have applied for a position, or, say, wanted to get into the judicial council, and do not usually agree with their leaders, because, let's say, they want to demand legal operation. This court system can also be launched by virtually preventing judges from being allowed to enter into these control organisations, against whom they say they are disciplinary, and then they will cease because they have not done anything that would give rise to disciplinary punishment, but they have been able to stay out of an election. Well, then there's 16. Paragraph 4 and Article 17 Paragraph 2 of this Article. This is insane! They brought precedent law here mixed up with the institution of legal unit decisions. So if the judgmental council wants to deviate from the decision of the other Supreme Court of Public Administration, it will initiate a legal unit procedure. Well, the essence of your legal units is that you have already made decisions with opposite content in the same way of life, under the same laws, and in order to resolve these contradictions, uniform and predictable judicial practice and then take the decisions of the legal unit! But what we're talking about here is that we're not even standing there to make a decision on that particular case right now. What's happening? We are creating a privileged right in an otherwise continental legal system, where, of course, there are mandatory standards for judicial forums, which can, can and must be done, but this will be a completely different principle and a different case-law system. Now, that is the problem, as I said at the beginning, that I fear that if the pudding test is successful after the inspection of the organizations assigned to it, these rules will be introduced into the general court system. What's the point? The point is that, at some point, a decision will be made on a case, and from then on, any facts surrounding it, or any particular circumstances surrounding it, should be predestined as to how they will be judged. It will lead to one thing: citizens will not dare to go to court because, on the one hand, it costs a lot of money and, on the other hand, if they lose the lawsuit, they could see the enforcement of their rights even more and, in fact, impossible. It is not acceptable that the President of the Board of Persons of the OKBT is the President of the Supreme Court. This has been explained in this legal document submitted to the IM, and it is no coincidence that today the presidents of OBH and OBT are different persons. We see in practice that if these two institutions were practiced by the same person, they would lead, say, if Peter Darák did it, I would not be so distrustful, but, for example, I can imagine that Hando Tünde would be the president of these two regions, well, it would be a much worse situation than what is today. The independence of the system of control and selection would be guaranteed precisely if it was not for the people who would be managing the answers, but for the advice to be able to judge personal applications who could not be biased in any way. Plus the 28th. Paragraph 2 provides for the composition of the personal council. This has already been said by one of my previous opposition colleagues that the OKBT has 4 members and the other 4 members are delegated by organisations operating at national level in the judiciary. This does not make this region balanced, and it is practically possible to create a situation where what a person invents will be made decisions. Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and ask if anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for your participation in the debate. Several comments, several objections or elements of debate have been made from the mouth of several Members, so I will try to respond together as much as possible to what has been said. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Imre Vejkey and Mr Zoltán Kovács for the comments that had been made for the previous period, even for the speech by Ágos Pulszky, where he considered this a serious and important topic at the end of the 1800s, or even for the circumstances of the end of 1949, where the main objection to administrative courts was that it was considered as a civil, rule of law failure which was not possible in that system to prevail. I would point out that my fellow Member Staudt quoted from the Hungarian book on the history of state and law, in which he challenged the operation of the then administrative courts, that the rights were limited. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this particular textbook was written in 1972, and for example, Kálmán Kovács was one of his co-authors, who was the deputy minister of the Ministry of Justice at the time of the Rákosi era, professor of university, of course later, and thus co-author, veteran of the Hungarian Law History Department. So now, 30 years after the change of regime, the references to them give a bit of a shady legal background to these speeches. As regards the criticisms of the Minister, which she mentioned, Minister was not only a good lawyer before, but also a university professor to this day, and in fact there she dealt with the area of administrative law and wrote various studies from it. So that this would be something new for him, for the establishment of administrative courts or even for the establishment of a superior court, that is not documented. He went back decades on this subject. There were various points, all of which I would not comment on, because even the various criminal cases of Szabó Timea during the trial of the Law on Administrative Courts are not entirely relevant, so I would not respond to them. As for Jobbik's comments, and for the seven-party conciliation, for example, there was a suggestion in the seven-party conciliation regarding secretaries and authors, one of the elements of how they could be transferred to the new court system has already been incorporated with regard to the authors. I would just like to emphasise that we will read the materials, listen to the suggestions, and, of course, we will also give professional answers to the amendments. Today, I also wrote a letter indicating that if it comes in the form of a draft legislative amendment, we can provide meaningful answers to the points that we have, of course, read and a number of them have been mentioned here. As regards the claims that there would be no clarification in line with the criteria of the rule of law, Minister said that the resolution of the Venice Commission could be received before the law came into force, since this would take place on 1 January 2020. But instead of Parliament itself, the Venice Commission doesn't write the laws, so obviously the government doesn't want to prevent us from going according to the usual timetable. That everything in the West is so ideally done, it is just now that the President of the Republic has not appointed the President of the Supreme Court in Austria. So I'm saying there are problems elsewhere, not just here. There are malfunctions, but it is actually one of the strengths of the rule of law that there are conflicts, and then there are solutions, and not in such a smooth twist. It may be that this part of those who have grown up in the previous system, or are looking at patterns when there were no debates, is considered better, and I think it is good to have debates, to mature them, and to have solutions along them. What I think is very important again in the case of the administrative court, there has been no general clause so far, so that in all administrative cases the possibility of the judicial procedure is opened, this also required the transformation of the administrative court. This two-degree court forum offers much higher guarantees for those who are involved in a dispute with the State. [[12.20]] I would stress here that with the state, because these cases are about when the citizen is arguing not with an equal with another party, but with a stronger power, with the state. So, again, I'm just saying that we need special rules, special procedures. We also have the law on administrative procedures, which we have already adopted, in this sense we need a kind of attitude where the consideration of objective and subjective aspects is particularly important to achieve. There have also been criticisms of the appointment practice. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the court organisation recommends the candidates that the Minister may propose to the President of the Republic. They referred here to the declaration of inefficiencies by the president of the OBH, and this also works on the lower level in the judiciary. Few people may remember it, but when we heard the President of the OBH on the Justice Committee, there was a statistic that showed that at the levels below, where applications are declared ineffective in the same proportion, this happens in the same way. Interestingly, these forums or lower levels are not criticised in this regard. But I would like to go back to the fact that the Minister has such authority only if it is mentioned in the appeal of the judiciary that it is necessary to declare the tender ineffective and not to decide independently on this issue. Mr László Varga said that there was no dialogue on this issue. I remember that when it first came up two or three years ago, it came up on behalf of the MSZP in relation to administrative courts, where they declared that they were Fidesz courts, and they refused to discuss this matter. They didn't even come to the seven-party matchmaker. On that basis, accusing the government of a lack of dialogue to send an invitation that they don't accept is a little strong. I could be demagog, as some have tried to push the boundaries of this, that we are talking about Fidesz courts. In Hungary, no party member can be a member of the court, unlike Germany, where it is acceptable to have a party book under the rule of law. In that sense, I think we are moving forward in this area. It has been said that the percentage of subjective aspects in the evaluation of applications is 20 percent. I remember that when last year we amended the Minister's Order on Justice, in which we reduced the proportion of subjective points to 10 percent, this was regarded as a violation of the rule of law by all opposition parties, and feared that at that time judicial independence would now be lost at the entry and selection of judges. This conflicting argument convinces me a little bit that the problem is that if something arises from the government, ab ovo is not acceptable and is not the subject of debate. Or, as Szabó Timea put it, he is conducting a political debate and not a professional debate on these issues. I am very sorry for this, because there is such a lousy piece of legislation, there is such a tradition, an EU model of this story that everyone could have a substantive debate, of course, if they took the trouble to read the draft legislation carefully, and did not list specific counter-claims as set out in this draft law. I think that making decisions on a legal unit as a precedent is a bit of a strong wording, because it is practically only in the case of different judicial practices, and when it comes to making decisions of a different nature than they were born before, we are preventing a kind of conflict of coherence within the case-law. In my view, this is certainly a better solution in time to problems where the judicial councils would not reach the same decision at the highest level. Wind Bernadett also mentioned a declaration of inefficiencies. A statement was also made on the request for public data. These are not before the administrative courts, and I would not comment on this at the same time. As regards appointments and acceptance, it has also been said that we want to appoint these judges as soon as possible. 1 January 2020 is the date of entry into force, so there will be a one-year preparatory period. My fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm rightly mentioned some figures that he quoted, although there were some that he himself produced, I would like to correct. According to OBH's data, 197 are now working on administrative matters, and these are taken over by the law, if they declare that this is happening. I don't know what kind of statement those who mentioned it referred to, because after there is no law yet, so I don't think anyone has ever been able to make a statement about the judges who work there, whether they're going to want to join the court organisation that hasn't been set up yet. Again, it is difficult to answer these questions in substance. Objections were also raised in connection with Esther. I know the traffic conditions in the area. On the one hand, the railway line has just been renovated, and it is now being planned to build a motorway that is expected to be completed within three years, where there will be a direct connection from the M1 motorway. They referred to transport difficulties, but transport in this area will be as good as in any part of the country. So these aspects have also been taken into account. In connection with the Constitutional Court, there was also an objection that the Constitutional Court was based in Esztergom, but the Constitutional Court did not move there. There was never a building on Esztergom, there was no infrastructure that could have accepted this institution, I would add. Here, however, we have reversed the order, and by the time the law enters into force, infrastructure conditions will be available. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments can be tabled at 16:00 on Thursday, or 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on mutual assistance in civil matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam until closure. The government referral is T/3357. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bóka, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, who will tell you his exposé from the platform. We'll wait for Secretary of State to arrive on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-27	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Unfortunately, the law can't tame people. In addition to the best regulation, there will be conflicts and disputes. But the law may be able to tame the future, make it predictable which forum will act according to the rules in the event of a dispute, and how its decision will be enforced. This is particularly important when legal relationships or disputes cross borders. Today, the number of such civil rights conditions is constantly increasing as a result of increasing international economic relations and increasing mobility. The regulation of these relations can only be truly effective if it is based on international agreements. The Hungarian court can deliver documents to a foreign party, or it can listen to a foreign witness if the foreign State concerned grants legal aid. Similarly, the enforcement of a Hungarian decision outside Hungary is ensured if the State, where this decision is presented, undertakes to recognise and implement the Hungarian decision in an international agreement. Currently, Hungary has 28 conventions in force with 43 states, either individually or in conjunction with the criminal area, for successions that regulate judicial cooperation in civil matters. Our oldest contract is the Hungarian-British legal aid agreement, drawn up by one of the best-known legal scientists of Hungarian private international law, István Szászi, signed in 1935, and the latest Hungarian-Ukrainian legal aid agreement signed in 2001. The vast majority of the conventions concerned arose decades ago in an environment significantly different from today, so many of their provisions have now become obsolete. Experience in the application of the legal aid agreements also shows that some issues are not sufficiently regulated by the conventions and some cases are not resolved at all, not least because they were not foreseen at the time of their conclusion. The majority of legal aid contracts in force do not follow the results of any particularly significant developments since their conclusion in the regulation of civil judicial cooperation, international civil procedure law and private international law. [[12.30]] In addition, it is important that the 2017 General Court on private international law should be consulted on the basis of the information provided by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the As a result, the contrast between modernized Hungarian domestic law and legal aid contracts containing obsolete provisions has also become particularly strong. These reasons alone would be sufficient for the revision of our bilateral legal assistance agreements, but our EU obligations will be added to them. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Act of Accession make it an obligation on the Member States to eliminate contradictions between their obligations in international agreements concluded before their accession and those of the Union. Since the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty establishing the legal basis for civil judicial cooperation, very intensive EU legislative work has been carried out in this area. There are, of course, contradictions between the provisions contained in a large number of existing sources of law and the provisions of the legal aid agreements that need to be resolved. This is not only our obligation, but also our well-conceived interest, because EU legislation is in many respects the most modern regulation in the field of civil judicial cooperation. However, the fact that the Union's competence also extends to this area severely limits the freedom of the Member States to conclude contracts. However, the Hungarian Government and the Ministry of Justice were not discouraged by the legal difficulties of the EU. During the long and detailed discussions with the European Commission, we first identified the margin of manoeuvre available to us between Member States, and we made maximum use of it in the drafting of the new agreement. I consider this attitude to be exemplary. An approach or case-law is not lawful because it follows standard patterns. Legality and innovation, legality and creativity, legality and courage are not mutually exclusive concepts. The success of this approach is confirmed by the agreement, and I consider this approach to be my professional creed. Dear House, Cooperation in civil matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is currently governed by the Treaty between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on Civil, Family and Criminal Legal Assistance, signed in Hanoi on 18 January 1985, and published in Hungary by Decree-Law No 8 of 1986. The legal aid agreement in force is of a comprehensive nature and covers most areas of civil justice cooperation. It shall provide each other's nationals with free access to justice, establishing the legal basis for cooperation between courts and authorities in civil matters, for the service of documents or for the taking of evidence in the territory of the other Contracting State. In addition, the Treaty lays down rules on jurisdiction and conflict of laws in matters of personal status, family law and succession, so that in this area it provides against EU law and Hungarian law for the courts and authorities of which Contracting State may act and for which State law they apply. The legal aid agreement in force also ensures mutual recognition and enforcement of decisions in civil matters. Experience with the application of the legal aid agreement has shown that it is operational and provides an appropriate basis for bilateral cooperation, but needs to be improved and modernised. In particular, jurisdiction and applicable legal provisions differ significantly from modern Hungarian and EU legislation. In the area of recognition and enforcement of decisions, the legal aid agreement in force lays down conditions for the recognition and enforcement of decisions given in the other Party State more favourable than Hungarian internal law and EU law. In other words, warranty reasons which result in refusal to recognise or enforce a decision under internal law or EU law in another State, such as a violation of Hungarian public order, cannot be imposed against a foreign decision on the basis of a bilateral agreement. From a Hungarian point of view, therefore, well-identifiable interests justified the replacement of the existing legal aid agreement with a new agreement. In view of the fact that the Vietnamese party also indicated its firm intention to establish a modernised bilateral agreement, the basis for the opening of negotiations was established. This was well integrated in the development and expansion of relations between the two states, represented by the three criminal law conventions concluded in the judicial area in 2017, namely, the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Convention on Extradition. The expert meetings took place in the first half of 2018, and the resulting text was signed in Budapest on 10 September 2018 in the framework of the highest level delegation visit. The agreement consists of five main structural parts. The general provisions lay down rules of general scope relating to the application of the Agreement, such as provisions on the scope of the Agreement relating to contact or use of languages. The procedural assistance section contains the rules for the provision of legal assistance and other forms of legal assistance, such as mutual information on the law and the transmission of civil status documents. The section on procedural provisions sets out provisions governing the security of litigation costs and legal assistance and reimbursements. The section on recognition and enforcement of decisions regulates the recognition and enforcement of decisions in civil matters and arbitration decisions, followed by the section on transitional and final provisions. Dear House, The agreement to be put forward by the bill contains more modern and more practical rules than the existing bilateral legal aid agreement. It does not lay down rules on jurisdiction and applicable law in relation to the legal aid agreement in force, as a result of which, on the one hand, the Hungarian law enforcement authorities may apply Hungarian and, where applicable, EU law in matters relating to Vietnam, and, on the other hand, the possibility of conflicting with EU law governing these areas is excluded. Renewal of the agreement to lay down an explicit rule on litigation in order to avoid problems arising from proceedings in the same case in the two States. As in the case of the legal aid agreement in force, the agreement will continue to provide each other's nationals with access to justice on a non-discriminatory basis, an exemption from the provision of legal security and a right to reimbursement of costs. Building on the experience of the application of the legal assistance agreement in force, the agreement improves the framework for cooperation, such as setting deadlines for the execution of requests and strict conditions, but allows the postal service of procedural documents in the other State. In the area of recognition and enforcement of decisions given in the other State Parties, the rules which largely receive the Hungarian internal law regime will apply in the future on the basis of the agreement. Accordingly, the recognition and enforcement of a decision given in another State will be recorded as a new reason for refusal to comply with the public policy of the State of recognition, of the State of enforcement, and of the pre-existing dependence on litigation in the State of recognition and enforcement. Norvum is also the reason for refusal which takes into account the existence of a decision previously taken in a third State, but recognised in the Contracting State of recognition, in the same case. The agreement also amends the examination of the jurisdiction of the court concerned, so that the absence of jurisdiction will in any future be taken into account as grounds for refusal. It is a practical problem that decisions made abroad for Hungarian citizens with other nationality cannot be recognised in some cases, since such a Hungarian citizen should only be considered Hungarian for the purposes of applying Hungarian law. The serious consequence of this is that our countrymen with multiple citizenships in different states have different family status, personal status, names. This agreement already provides an opportunity to remedy this unfair situation, taking into account the other nationality. The Agreement repeals the legal aid agreement in force, but, in the interests of legal certainty, it also ensures the recognition and enforcement of decisions falling within the scope of the latter's temporal scope, on the basis of the new agreement. [[12.40]] The bill provides for the designation of the Hungarian central authority, which has a primary role in the implementation of the agreement. It shall deploy these tasks on the Minister for Justice, as in the case of the legal aid agreement in force. Dear House, The agreement contained in the bill establishes a more modern framework for judicial cooperation in civil matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, which is closer to the Hungarian internal legislation than the Hungarian-Vietnam legal aid agreement in force. This will help to resolve civil disputes between the two States more quickly than ever, and to manage bilateral legal assistance more effectively. In light of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Please step down to your seats. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Riz. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Currently, Hungary has 28 conventions in force with 43 states, either individually or in conjunction with the criminal area, for successions that regulate judicial cooperation in civil matters. The importance of these is gradually increasing, as the increase in international economic relations and the increasing mobility of people also lead to an increase in the number of disputes with a cross-border element. In such cases, the settlement of disputes will be facilitated if the Convention with the State concerned allows cooperation between courts and authorities in the conduct of certain procedural acts, and the possibility of enforcing a decision in such proceedings will be increased if the international convention ensures the recognition of decisions and their enforcement. Our bilateral legal assistance agreements for this purpose include the Treaty governing the circulation of civil assistance in Hungary and Vietnam, which is signed in Hanoi on the 18th of January 1985 between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on civil, family and criminal assistance, which regulates a number of areas of civil judicial cooperation. This contract was signed more than 30 years ago, and since then there have been a number of changes in the political, economic, social and legal environment. Not only does this aspect justify rethinking the existing treaty, but also our EU obligations. Article 351 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 6 (10) of the Act of Accession oblige Member States to ensure that their obligations under the international agreement concluded before their accession are not incompatible with Union law. The Agreement covers five main areas and regulates them in detail. The section entitled "General provisions" lays down rules of general scope, such as provisions on the scope of the contract relating to the use of languages or contacts. Rules on other forms of service and assistance are set out in the section "Access to procedures." The provisions governing the provision of litigation costs and the reimbursement of costs can be found in the section entitled "The Rules of Procedure." Annex IV is amended as follows: Chapter III contains the recognition and enforcement of decisions in civil matters and of arbitration decisions and ends with transitional and final provisions. For example, let me give you some content elements. It does not lay down rules on jurisdiction and applicable law in relation to the existing treaty, which means that Hungarian law enforcement authorities can apply Hungarian and, where applicable, EU law in matters relating to Vietnam, and that the possibility of conflicting with EU law regulating these areas has also been excluded. In terms of the content of the contract, it can be concluded that the agreement contains more modern and more favourable regulations than the existing bilateral legal assistance agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, In light of this, I ask that you support the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have an agreement between T/3357, Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on mutual assistance in civil matters. I do not wish to repeat from a legal point of view what the rapporteur said or the words of the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, which presented the legal reasoning for this agreement. Of course, the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary welcomes such agreements, especially because the world has become quite global, with relations, family relations, corporate relations, commercial relations and all kinds of living conditions that have an international dimension, forcing us to have such agreements with as many countries as possible, because we can see that where this does not happen or where there is no such agreement, it is quite difficult to enforce citizens' rights. The EU Treaty sets out the conditions for international cooperation in civil law that EU countries should follow. In this respect, our agreements with certain countries, with similar content, have been practically overwritten, updated by EU legislation, and in this way we do not need to conclude such agreements with them. For the sake of recollection only: on 9 April 1965 with Austria, on 1 March 1954 with Belgium, its Additional Protocol was signed on 11 May 1983 with Slovenia and Croatia, former Yugoslavia, on 7 March 1968 and its Additional Protocol on 25 April 1986. A similar agreement was concluded with Bulgaria on 16 May 1966, the Additional Protocol dated 15 September 1981. We have had this agreement with Cyprus since 30 November 1981, with Slovakia and the Czech Republic, with the old Czechoslovakia state formation, we had an agreement on 28 March 1989 until 2004. On 22 May 1981, with France on 31 July 1980, with Greece on 8 October 1979, with Poland on 6 March 1959, with Italy on 26 May 1977, with Romania on 7 October 1958. Today, these agreements, unlike the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, do not need to be updated, as the EU's legislation responds to all the tasks that we must pursue in such bilateral relations. However, outside the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, we have concluded agreements with countless other countries before the change of regime and one or two after the change of regime, with a view to cooperation on the basis of reciprocity. As of January 2018, bilateral agreements are still open to representatives of the Ministry of Justice in order to bring them into line with today's conditions and new rules since our accession to the EU. With Albania on 2 January 1960, with Algeria on 7 February 1976, with Belarus on 15 July 1958, the Additional Protocol of which was born on 19 October 1971. The Treaty of 7 March 1968 with the former Yugoslavia and its Additional Protocol, the document of 25 April 1986, have an impact on Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia today, so to be reviewed. We concluded bilateral agreements with Egypt on 26 March 1996 with Iraq on 4 March 1977, with China on 9 October 1995, with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on 5 October 1970, with Cuba on 27 November 1982. On the basis of the protocol concluded with the Soviet Union on 15 July 1958 and supplemented on 19 October 1971, the old rules still apply to Moldova and Russia. [[12.50]] We concluded bilateral agreements with Mongolia on 22 November 1968 with Syria on 1 May 1986, with Turkey on 6 June 1988, with Tunisia on 6 December 1982 and with Ukraine on 2 August 2001 after the change of regime. We believe that, since the present proposal states that agreements previously concluded on the same subject have been concluded under other political, public-law regimes, which are very largely not in line with the EU's rules, it is therefore necessary to update it as this bill includes today's conditions. We are therefore waiting for the government to do a rapid review of the bilateral agreements listed here, but not yet updated to today's context, and to conclude agreements with those States, and we will be happy to give our vote on such agreements in the future in order to ratify them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Member László Varga, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say too many novelties compared to what has been said so far, although I would have said the same innovation, obviously suggesting that a similar review has been carried out with several states. I would have added that there are still a number of similar agreements on mutual assistance in civil matters with other states. I would urge you to bring these in, to discuss them, because if there is no such thing in them, we will support them as well as this proposal. I think it has really been 33 years since 1985, so this agreement has become partly obsolete, and in some cases practical experience has also been received in the accelerated world, which has justified this. Of course, it is also justified to review the compatibility with EU law. So while there was a very long agenda before, in which there were very serious debates between the factions, and there will still be such today, in which there will be more big debates, as I know ourselves, and we will certainly have a long debate on these issues, this concrete proposal is not one of them, and our faction can support it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take part in the debate and speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr János Bóka, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-35	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you, Congresswoman, for your unanimous support on the bill. I would like to respond to the substantive remark made in that further legal aid agreements to be reviewed have been explored in the preparation of the new private international law law. The Ministry of Justice itself considers that the revision of further legal aid agreements is justified. Our legal options and opportunities in the EU have been explored. Of course, we are constantly examining the possibility of starting further negotiations on which legal aid agreements may be revised. This requires, of course, reception skills from the other party. With this in mind, we can take a meaningful stand on moving forward. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-14-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. Next up is the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/3292. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, author of the item on the agenda, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have significant legislation before us here in Parliament, because it is our duty to support civil society organisations and to review the support environment, because ensuring their continued functioning and their development depends to a large extent on the support system. This is also the case because between 2010 and 2016 the amount of aid increased significantly from HUF 144 billion to HUF 240 billion to date, so we are talking about a significant change. This means that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian budget, places particular emphasis on the support of genuine civil society organisations. The National Cooperation Fund is one of the organisations, a major organisation that is particularly concerned with the support of civil society organisations. The budgetary framework for this has also increased steadily. The amount of aid increased from HUF 3.4 billion in 2012 to HUF 5.3 billion in 2018 and is now HUF 5.9 billion in the 2019 budget. Therefore, there is also a significant increase in aid on this side of the aid. The purpose of this law is to try to reduce administrative burdens and introduce incentives so that civil society organisations make the best use of their opportunities, i.e. their fundraising activities for real NGOs, encourage their fundraising activities to their professional activities, and to continuously increase their respective state aids, and to allow more and more organisations and associations to benefit from these grants. After all, we are talking about a large number of organisations that have very small operating costs, and in some sense have been excluded by the previous regulation or have been left out of the support process by regulation, so we would like these organisations to become increasingly supported organisations. Thus, in order to promote fundraising activities, it also contains proposals for the use of this legislation, as well as for simplified grants, as a new form of support, as well as for individual grants, it is possible to facilitate the functioning of civil society organisations and the use of flexible grants. On the one hand, the fundraising activity is a very important activity in the life of civil society organisations, and it is important for society to provide real support to these organisations and for organisations with real social support to be valued by the state. Therefore, the current proposal would increase the funding framework for these NGOs from 5 to 10 per cent, and with this change, small organisations that managed between 100 and 200 thousand forints could also benefit from a significant number of such organisations. This so-called normative support has so far affected 400 civil society organisations in Hungary, so many have applied, and it has meant about HUF 60-70 billion in Hungary. As a result of this change, this number may increase, increase significantly, and double the amount of aid. In the previous system, the fund issued two tenders, and the two applications were completely separate. On the one hand, there were so-called operating types of aid and, in addition to operating types of aid, there were aids which specifically supported professional activity. However, these were two branches and two distinct branches in the tendering system. As a result of this amendment, these two strands can be brought together, simplified and administrative burdens reduced, as we are talking about a change, which means that now organisations do not need to submit two tenders, but can do so in a single application as a result of the amendment. In other words, the system that used to be changed is that there were types of operating grants and support for professional activity on the other side. By merging these two, the operation of these organisations can be much simpler, and also in terms of the fact that the administration will be much smaller, it will be much easier to process on the part of the organisations the application forms which, by the way, can now be submitted as one in a proposal, simplifying these two forms. [[13.00]] Therefore, from 2019 onwards, the tendering system would be significantly simplified, the opportunities for proposals would be significantly increased, and this simplification would allow genuine NGOs to receive real support and increased support. I would like to emphasise that the purpose of this current legislation is to assist civil society organisations with real professional activities and social support, and to facilitate the functioning of these at a later stage. I would also like to stress that from 2012 onwards, the National Cooperation Fund will have its organisation in the same form, as nine councils will lead this organisation, it will coordinate its activities, and five colleges of nine will also operate in it, and 9 colleges are the decision-making bodies in these organisations. I ask that my fellow Members consider the provisions of this bill and ask for your support in the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Demeter. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary sets the freedom of association and assembly as an inalienable right of man. The objective obligation of the State to protect an institution in the case of this fundamental human right arises as being obliged to protect that right and to facilitate its smooth exercise. In 2011, the Hungarian Parliament established the current law on the right of association, the status of public benefit and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. This law explains what conditions are necessary to enable civil society organisations to develop, what is the precise course of the legal process of their establishment, and what operating frameworks they are obliged to comply with when continuing their activities and protecting the interests they represent. Civil society organisations and associations play a very important role throughout the world in today's societies. Their work is one of the cornerstones of democracy, as they want to pursue the interests of a particular group of citizens in public life by engaging in dialogue with the current government. Indeed, the activities they carry on, whether national or local, represent the interests of groups of interest, are worthy of recognition. These organisations are a kind of link between the public authority and the various groups of the civilian population. For this reason, the Government of Hungary treats the support of civil society organisations as a priority for society. In fact, the bill before us aims to strengthen this objective by increasing the number of organisations that receive individual ministerial support, by doubling the level of normative support to civil society organisations, and by reducing administrative activities related to their operation. Ladies and gentlemen, The constitutional duty of the legislative authority is to ensure the protection and exercise of the right of association without delay and to establish an effective mechanism for the protection of rights in the event of infringements to be given. With the adoption of this bill, we can fulfil this constitutional obligation and I consider it a positive idea on the part of the government the fundamental objective contained in the proposal, which encourages civil society organisations to try to increase their own revenue by the most effective means possible, as Mr State Secretary pointed out. It is important to emphasise this again and again because according to the proposal, civil society organisations would receive proportionate support in line with the amount of donations collected, i.e. the more funds they manage to raise, the more state aid they receive. Thus, the amendments envisaged in the bill on the House's table concern the aid provided for in the civil law. In my view, these amendments could act as an incentive to increase the self-reliance of civil society organisations, and it should be pointed out that, as a result of the proposal, certain categories, such as organisations that reflect local needs and community interests and involve members of the community, the promotion of which is indeed of a high social interest. Dear Parliament, These proposed amendments also aim to strengthen the desire to set up a civil society organisation in as many citizens as possible or to join an existing society. Due to the existence and active functioning of organizations, public life will be colourful. Pluralism is one of the cornerstones of democracy. Therefore, the proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group and I respectfully ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, who gives his speech and speech on the platform. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Some general comments should be presented at the beginning as a summary. One of these comments, as a summary, is that, once again, not for the first time, or even for the first time in the history of the Civil Code, we are dealing with a proposal in which there are welcome, good and correct elements, elements that respond to real problems and the real needs of civil society organisations. I am pleased that we agree on this with my fellow Member. I am no longer sure that we will agree with Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, who nods to me, that, unfortunately, there are also elements in this proposal that we have also gotten used to from you, which, in turn, increase transparency and affect the strengthening of the Fidesz party state. On the other hand, we can see once again a proposal that has now been made by a pro-government voice, which is once again presumed to have received a speech by a Member from one of the ministries shortly before the meeting, otherwise he probably would not have said these words of praise in the context of the proposal uncritically. [[13.10]] Let's look at the financials first, because that's what we're talking about. Secretary of State, I find it quite amazing that you have started your speech here on the extent to which the civilian government has increased the proportion of aid that can be granted to civil society organisations. [[Tuzson Bence and Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] From HUF 3.3 billion to HUF 5 billion, the amount that was 8 billion forints in the last year of socialist governance was raised from 12 onwards, Mr. State Secretary. I wouldn't be so proud of that if I were you. By the way, Jobbik made an amendment every year. In real terms, you are not giving half of the amount granted under socialist governance to those civil society organisations today, and the way in which it is distributed has been substantially tightened. Obviously, this one was also placed under the government. While in the Curatorium of the National Civil Fund programme there was one out of ten government delegates, and nine were elected by the civilians, while you created a system with the National Cooperation Fund that six of the nine members in both the Council and the Board of Trustees actually won their appointment from Fidesz, and they decided to spend half the amount, by the way, once again, as much as the socialist government, which was not particularly civilly friendly and not so ambitious or at least not so much of the cause of civil society organisations, did. Speaking of NEA, the Csizmadia László, who serves your system and regime with the same serbilism as he served the Communists at the time, is perfect for you at the head of the National Cooperation Fund. I will also present an amendment, which will be about the fact that neither the NEA, the council, nor the members of the colleges can be those who have taken on any role during the previous party state, and then your national and Christian government will vote this out, because you are in line with the former socialist comrades if you are served with the same sergilism. You therefore entrust the HUF 5.5 billion of the National Cooperation Fund to the person who, as the head of the CÖF, has been involved in continuous scandals; for years he refused to account for half a billion forints, in fact with public money, as he received it from Hungarian Electricity. You and the government even gave him protection because they tried to explain why public money wasn't public money, and then when we finally managed to sue him for some information after years, it turned out that 443 million forints were spent on their own advertising, 4.5 minutes of small film, otherwise, that there were footage cut earlier. This cost me 98 million forints per minute, my fellow Members to the taxpayers, while the CF website shows that a fraction of the amount spent on self-advertising has not been used to actually carry out their activities. By the way, this amount of HUF 98 million per minute cost taxpayers exactly 246 times as much money as the $400,000 a minute for the Oscar-winning Everyone film. I have made my complaint on suspicion of fraud, embezzlement and mistreatment, which, by the way, affects Mr. Csizmadia and his company, as well as the leaders who have approved this payment and its completion by the Electric Works. And from here, I'd like to tell Mr. Bohemia that a few weeks ago he threatened to have legal consequences for my claims. Mr. Bootsadia, be kind and sue me, I'll wait, because then maybe we'll find out what you spent half a billion forints on. I repeat from here: it was spent funding Gábor Vona with Ferenc Gyurcsány's washing and embarrassing poster campaign. You spent this money on this, Mr. Bootsadia. Now, let's look at the law itself in detail and according to points. One of the most important things that we would, of course, like to welcome, has been partly addressed by the previous speakers: on the one hand, normative and simplified support is defined at the beginning, and this is obviously a correct technical amendment. It's written into the law as to what we mean by that. What is certainly a good direction is that the percentage of normative support that can be granted after the donations collected is increased from 5 to 10 percent of the proposal. This obviously encourages NGOs to raise funds, as has been said, by the way, 5 percent has been so small so far that it was not actually worth the trouble. So, to be clear, it is about the fact that certain NGOs, if they collected donations, could receive 5 percent of the annual amount of this donation without applying for it as normative support. So the direction is good, but we consider the displacement to be low. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, and the MPs of the government, to consider raising this amount to 15 percent. This will probably require an increase in the available framework. Last year, the amount obtained in this form was 64 million forints, which did not exhaust the available framework; obviously because the proposal would increase this framework from 5 to 10 percent, because the amount available was not exhausted. The reason why they didn't drain it is because the 5 percent was so small that, while we have to overcome amazing bureaucratic obstacles, for most organisations, this was actually not worth it. So it was 64 million forints, Mr. Secretary, I would like to draw your attention to this, not 60 and 70 billion. [[Tuzson on Bence's mark:]] It's okay. It'll be on the record. So we are not talking about HUF 60 and HUF 70 billion, as the Secretary of State said, but about HUF 64 million in total. Maybe it's not the same thing. So we certainly welcome this and ask for the consideration of trying to raise this framework a little more. On the other hand, to speak a little against myself or to speak against the coherence of my speech, we are a bit surprised at this proposal, because on one hand it can affect political judgements. Many NGOs did not apply because they were too bureaucratic, but because they had applied for years, but only because the local Fidesz small kings did not consider this to be worthy of support, and after a while they got bored of it. So this opportunity opens up now, especially when it's rising. Especially if you accept our proposal to make this 15 percent, more organisations who may not have been able to do so for political reasons can get support. Next thing you know, Mr. President, I'd like to tell you that I don't see my time or my watch.
u2018-11-14-42	You can't see it, Congressman, notary, because you didn't put your card in its place, but I'm measuring the time. There's until 23, so you still have 6 minutes.
u2018-11-14-43	Thank you very much. The next point of the proposal makes the definition of Hungarian civil society organisations across borders more precise. We also consider this to be good and correct, as the Hungarian State states that the Hungarian NGOs from abroad want to support them must operate under the law of the country. This is important only because the rules on civil society organisations differ slightly in each neighbouring country, and even the operating forms of civil society organisations may differ. Consider, for example, the so-called civil partnerships in the case of the Highlands, so it is also a good way to fix this, in our opinion. However, what we cannot agree with and what obviously increases transparency and the possibility of abuse is an increase in the ministerial framework from 10 to 15 percent. This is clearly increasing the margins of the minister, reducing transparency and transparency in decision-making. It is justified that this is due to an increase in the number of applications so submitted and to the possibility of receiving support from certain organisations several times a year on the basis of an individual ministerial decision. We can't even agree with the justification here. In the case of an organisation, it should be sufficient to receive support once a year, on the basis of political curfew, anyway. It is also obvious that the question of timing is whether it is not, my fellow pro-government Members, that before the municipal elections, you will try to stuff civil society organisations that are close to you more easily than ever; because that is what we think it is. Moreover, in the case of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we have been seeing for years the consequences of the broad decision-making power of the Minister, which the government has already used in order, precisely what we drew attention to at the beginning of the 2010s, to the fact that increasing the decision-making opportunity of the Minister is precisely designed to reduce transparency and thus reduce the number of Hungarian civil society organisations close to you by tens and hundreds of millions of forints. [[13.20]] This proposal, which increases the margin for ministerial manoeuvre from 10 to 15 per cent of the amount of applications, obviously starts in this direction, by stressing once again that there are two thirds majority in both the Council and the board of trustees who actually receive their mandates from Fidesz, and only one third in the proportion of members directly elected by civilians. With regard to the amendment of the reimbursements, it is said that, in the case of reimbursement, it may not exceed two thirds of the monthly minimum wage, or two thirds of the current amount. In fact, this is a technical amendment. I am not surprised that Mr Secretary of State did not mention this in his expo or in his speech by Congressman Demeter. This is because there is a legal nonsense, a legal contradiction, because a ministerial decree regulated this issue, in a way contrary to the law. Therefore, the question arises with regard to ministry lawyers as to how a ministerial decree contrary to the law in force could have been issued, but at least this will be settled here. What we don't understand, and I haven't asked you too many questions about this, Mr. Secretary, but you have to respect me by answering at least the few questions we ask. Article 5 Paragraph 1 states what the government is empowered to do: for example, to lay down the rules of the transfer-taking procedure in the event of the succession of the management body. The reasoning is rather narrow. In fact, the justification describes the same sentence, only in a different order, that it should be included. Why does this have to go into this, Mr. Secretary? I would like to ask what is the reason for this, why this is necessary, what is the purpose, whether you want to transform this system in some way or if you want to abolish it. What we cannot agree with again, and not only can we not agree, but we find it quite astonishingly shocking, is the last paragraph, which concerns the repeal of the provision that civil society organisations which received aid named in the budget law in the year when the application was launched are not eligible for funding from the fund. Why do you have to take this out, Mr. Secretary? So why should the possibility for certain civil society organisations to be able to obtain funding from different locations for the same purpose or for similar purposes should be strengthened? For years, I have been beating the table in the Committee on National Inclusion, asking the Secretary of State for years, and for years we have not accepted the closing report or the reports on this, because in the case of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we also see that decision-making is so fragmented and there is so much room for parallelisation in the case of Hungarian civil society organisations abroad that they receive resources for their operations and programmes, which is not moving towards transparency at all, and is actually an opportunity for abuse. If I understand correctly and you deny me, Secretary of State, if I do not understand correctly, although the budget law cannot be understood in a very different way, you would open up the possibility that if civil society organisations that are dear to you were included in the budget law with ten and a hundred million forints... By the way, I'm living with the suspicion that we may be talking about the Rákóczi Alliance, which has been in the budget for years, and will also receive money from another 50 different places. Of course, this would not necessarily be a problem with the programmes and the work done, so I would like to stress this before the Lokal will write again that Jobbik is attacking Hungarians across the border. So that's not the problem. Every civil society organisation should have as much money as it is important and as useful as it does, but this should be done transparently. The fact that you include certain civil society organisations in the Finance Act with HUF 10 million and HUF 100 million, and then these civil society organisations, even at all existing ministries, foundations, committees and ministerial frameworks, are able to apply separately, and after that they are even dissolved to submit to the National Cooperation Fund, is simply what is needed? So why should the NGO that receives 50 million and 100 million forints from the budget apply for a few million forints, even if they do? We are most definitely against this. In fact, you are creating another pocket so that you can apply for similar goals in a mess. This clearly does not point to transparency and not to the professional spending of money. For now, we are taking a stand on the law. We will have several amendments and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-14-44	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, There is a very important piece of legislation ahead of us, and let me say a few words about the civil sphere before the concrete bill. Today we see nearly 62 thousand NGOs working in Hungary with local, regional and national competences on leisure, sport, culture, social care, health care, traditionalism, urban development. Let us not forget about civil society organisations with ecclesiastical, ethnic and cross-border backgrounds, who are doing valuable and valuable work in Hungarian society today. I think that the government and the governing parties appreciate the work of these civil society organisations, as they do a sacrifice day by day in very important areas. In many places, they carry out tasks taken over from the state, and in many places they complement the tasks of the state, and the most important thing is that they build a community and organise a community. On the other hand, there is a dwarf minority, a dwarf minority with no social embeddedness, but with significant foreign funding and significant media, a minority of fundamentalists of human rights who, in fact, want to gain political influence, but do not want to be tested in the elections. As a summary, they could be called Soros Organizations. What we see is that they are much louder than the social work they do, they receive far greater funding than their social embeddedness. But thank God it's just a very small minority, and that 62 thousand really NGOs are working for the good of the country and the nation, the communities. Here I would also like to thank the Fidesz-KDNP faction association for the work of more than 300,000 volunteers who help real civil society organisations to advance their community once or twice a year, one or two times a week, and work hard for free. My colleague Szávay was surprised that the funding of civil society organisations has increased in recent years since 2010. [[Bence of Turdai: He's down by half!]] But you were surprised that Mr. Secretary said that I wanted to say this to you. I brought you the data from the Statistical Office. The Statistical Office says that while three forms of NGOs have stagnated or rather decreased before 2010, there has been a steady increase since 2010. On the one hand, the basic activity and management revenues of civil society organisations amounted to HUF 170 billion in 2010 and already HUF 224 billion in 2016. What the Secretary of State has referred to has also increased the total state aid, which is part of the NEA. By the way, there are a number of applications available in various government secretaries and ministries, such as the application of the "Family Friendly Public Thinking" tender, the traditional tenders, the cross-border applications, the applications for church and ethnic NGOs, the applications for sports associations, if included, the state grant in 2010 and HUF 240 billion in 2016. I think that an increase of nearly HUF 100 billion is called a reduction, a reduction in half of it is a minimum mistake. Private support has also increased. This means that as people's salaries increased, companies' incomes increased, so they could spend more money on donations and charity. We think it's a very good direction. Private support amounted to 109 billion in 2010 and 166 billion in 2016. I think these numbers speak for themselves. If all three categories are added up, civil society organisations had 630 billion forints in 2016 compared to the HUF 423 billion CSO revenue in 2010. I think it has been very important in recent years that, at the end of 2016, the Hungarian Parliament decided that the operating conditions and operating frameworks of civil society organisations were much more simplified and bureaucracy reduced. We regret that at that time the Socialist Group was the only one who voted against improving the conditions for the operation of civil society organisations, and everyone else in Parliament could accept that this was an facilitation for real civil society organisations. I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Member, Mr Jobbik. The issue of succession is that, as the governance structure has been transformed, the oversight of civil society organisations and the NEA system have been transferred to the Prime Minister's Office from EMMI. Thus, after EMET, the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager will provide it in the future, since it has been transferred to another ministry, and that Ministry is no longer able to supervise it. That is the issue of succession. And to say that organizations that have received hundreds of millions of budget lines will receive one more time is obviously a deliberate slip, as you know that 50 million forints of revenue, which is the upper limit. So you can't get support from an organization that has reached HUF 50 million in revenue. You can receive only reimbursable support, who exceeded HUF 50 million. So we can't talk about hundreds of millions of forints of organizations here. [[13.30]] [[In the notary seat, László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] As far as the amendment is concerned, it will be submitted to Jobbik's statutes, as the MSZMP member can be better. It was before, and the Kecskemét, Hajdúsámsoni, Fölkövesd, Ceglédi [[Tibor Bana: The government is full... Dániel Z. Carpathian: Look around your own government. The president's ringing the bell.]] have also been regularly reported in their core organisations. They also had a candidate for finance minister who did not become Minister of Finance, but even their candidate for finance minister was a member of the MSZMP from the 1970s to the end. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Look around the secretary of state! The president's ringing the bell.]] With regard to the bill before us and the improvement of the operating environment of civil society organisations, I would like to highlight three issues in my speech as a speaker. One of them is a very welcome element, which is not in this law, but amended by the Government Decree, and it is that small NGOs at local level with low operating costs, which do not reach their annual revenues of HUF 5 million, can apply for a maximum grant of HUF 200,000 on the basis of eligibility. So this is where a large part of the application administration is made in these small communities. We believe that supporting small communities is very important and that we will extend this support so that as many people who do not have the capacity to carry out the application administration can benefit from it on a eligibility basis. The other thing I would like to highlight is the reduction of administration, the merger of two types of NEA competitions, so civil society organisations need to understand, read and then apply for a type of application administration, a type of tender and a kind of conditionality. The two deadlines for submission have always been within a month, which may have given civil society organisations an extra burden, and it is very right that this is now being simplified with regard to the bill. What I would like to say, and more people have already mentioned to me, is a doubling of the addition to the fundraiser. I think it is very important that if there are self-organizations, there are community-building activities, to which the community itself contributes, and that all donations can be collected for an important purpose, then the state can now complement this by raising it from 5 to 10 percent, so that the goal can be achieved in any case. We certainly consider this to be welcome and forward-looking. I think that since 2010, civil sector revenues have been constantly increasing. I believe that community building, preservation and value creation are a key aspect of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, and this law also points in this direction and makes simplification and enlargement proposals here. It is therefore supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this does not go on long, because I do not really see the point in this debate, and it has taken such a shocking course here after the speaker before me, which I think is completely unnecessary. I wouldn't even agree to personalization in this regard, but let's just say there was a KDNP member State Secretary for Education at the time of your administration, who, by the way, was a member of the MSZMP. I'm gonna cut this short for my part. I just don't understand why you have to keep making these kinds of statements. [[Nacsa Lőrinc pointing to István Szávay: He started it!]] Let's just say it sheds a little more light on the purpose and direction of the bill by putting something like this on the table. Plus, they're not sweeping their own house. What you have said here with regard to some civil society organisations, I would also like to briefly put in a slightly different light. They referred to the Helsinki Committee, Amnesty International, before 2010, when you had a good opinion on civil society organisations' rights, and they were obviously referred to when they expressed unfavorable opinions at your time of governance, and, of course, they are trying to make them impossible by all means, and by taking advantage of the framework of such a speech in Parliament, taking advantage of every opportunity to attack them with a full-time attack. In the meantime, the 62,000 civil society organisations in Hungary are constantly making difficult decisions. I think that the way you stand with civil society organisations and civil society in general is very clear to the Hungarian society. They're chasing every opinion that doesn't match or which you don't like, sometimes, more or less, when it comes to how, but the basic position is this. So, in your worldview, there is no room for these types of communities to be strengthened and to express their own thoughts. Obviously, the proposal is trying to change this type of anti-civil image, clearly clear to all of you, in relation to the events that have occurred in recent weeks and months, as well as in relation to the European Union. Partly with real administrative cuts, because there are some, and otherwise with proposals to increase own revenue in particular, which can otherwise be agreed with. So, once again, we are faced with and here the lead speaker of KDNP referred to this: yes, there are times when the opposition votes no for proposals, and indeed this is the majority, but partly because some of the proposals are generally unacceptable and partly proposals for salads, or proposals for many areas of life that cannot be taken or taken in a different way. Because I say to you that I agree to increase the rate of normative support from 5 to 10 percent in terms of donations, of course, of course, that's okay, you can agree with him, whether it is possible to look forward to this, but I am sorry, for example, what has been said here with regard to my opposition colleague before me, the increase of the ministerial framework to 10 percent, this is all in the direction of individual consideration. Individual consideration, this is the practical experience, so in such proposals it is really impossible to distance itself from space, from time to time and from your practice, all of which means that a civil world close to you, dear to you, serving you, will come to the fore and will be financed. So, in this sense, the directions are not good, because although some progress is being made in the proposal, they are strengthening the opportunities of NGOs close to NER. It was said here at the time: I believe that if you do not intend to do so, and suppose you have sincere and very clear intentions with this proposal, I am surprised to myself by putting such a hypothesis here, but let's say we put it here, otherwise this question of MVM, CÖF, would have been cleared a long time ago. We are talking about HUF 508 million, which COF received from MVM in 2016. It is a shocking sum, by the way, an openly, almost conservatively, civil society network, which stands by your state's authority, which specifically combines, joins, embodys, and embodies organisations of this type that are close to you. By the way, I think it's talkative that here, in terms of the advice you have mentioned, where the Fidesz majority is assured, the President of the Council is László Csizmadia, who is also the president of the CÖF. So what objectivity, neutrality can be expected in terms of 62,000 civil society organisations? One word, like a hundred, should clarify this matter, make it very clear what they think, is it okay that a civil society organisation, which makes up open political opinions in this sense, receives half a billion from a state-owned company that spends practically at least on questionable things, or at least on presenting its political opinion for you; how this ensures in the public the conflict of political opinions, fair electoral competition, and I could still list it; and how much it is, by the way, for those civilians who are really trying to achieve a very important social goal in Hungary by doing real volunteer work. [[13.40]] I'm saying they're under your system, your system is a cross for them, it's a very insufferable thing that you've been doing for the past eight or nine years, everything. I think that some of the beauty patches in this type of proposal will not solve this, even if there are some forward-looking things. The main direction of the proposal, for example, I would like to emphasise once again, is that the personal treatment of ministers, the broadening of the possibilities for individual evaluation, is exactly what you have done in recent years against civil society organisations, against the interests of civil society organisations. Thus, in this form, this is obviously not acceptable. We are very curious about what changes may be made later. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I am very grateful to Mr Nacsa, because we did not have to extract from the sanda's hints what the purpose of the bill was, it is quite clear what this is about, and it was clear from the speech of the Member. There are three types of civil society organisations. There is the forbidden, these are those you call Soros organisations, human rights organisations or other government-critical organizations who stand up for the poor, stand up for those who lose their rights, who claim the rule of law. Well, these organizations are considered undesirable by you, being persecuted by special laws. They do not touch these in this law, but if you really thought it was civilian life, you wouldn't hurt civil society organisations. There is a second category: these supported organisations. The Member has already given an example of this among organisations across the border, including those organisations across the border who are pleased to participate in the organisation, registration and, according to some news, in the conduct of the vote and in voting for them. They are now making it easier for them to grant aid. And there is a third circle of civil society organisations: these are those who belong to the tolerated category, these are the many civil society organisations you refer to and who you claim to have a wonderful world for them. But that's not the case, they get the crumbs after your clients take the bigger meats out of the meat pot, and what's left of the little bone at the bottom, they give it away, throw it apart among the other NGOs. It is also a very clear issue in this legislation that they are seeking to further strengthen government control over this system and allow your buddy, who is also leading the COF, to distribute these funds with a calmer heart. In a sense, the most important provision of this bill is that, in addition to the fact that they now do not pay much attention to appearances and increase the ministerial framework, which they are practically free to distribute to the person they want to, in addition, allow the government decree to regulate essentially all the relevant questions of the proposal. So without this being transparent, and above all the Parliament has the power, they will establish a set of rules in which they will decide who can receive support and who can't. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You basically misunderstand one thing about civil society organisations. The English language abbreviation you use as a curse word, the NGO, means it's a non-governmental organization. The distinction between civil society organisations and government organisations is not that they have opinions on public matters, as you imagine or claim, but that they are independent of the government. If a civil society organisation is independent of the government, it must be supported in an independent system, and not in the way you plan to do so, and of course, there is no place in Parliament for one or another to decide which civil society organisation it considers to be genuine or not. This is not a matter for the government, it is not for Members, it must create a level playing field for civil society organisations in funding and operation, and thus help them to operate freely. This is not only in the interest of the civil society organisations attacked, but also of all civil society organisations, except, of course, those that depend solely on government support, open or enveloped government support. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, However, the stomachs of Hungarian civilians always shrink when they see that the government wants to change something about a law that affects them, because they have never come out of it well. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You voted for it too!]] Fidesz has been at war for years... I didn't get it, Mr. Nacha. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Looking for Zuschlag!]]
u2018-11-14-52	In two minutes, Mr. Nacha! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I am the Liberal International!]] Here you go. [[Gergely Harvestó: Look around in your own group if you're looking for Zuschlag's friends!]] Congressman Harvester!
u2018-11-14-53	Fidesz has been at war with civil society organisations for years, especially when we are talking about a civil society organisation who is not trying to put well-educated government propaganda in the eyes of society, in a very many false way. We see before us the occupation of the Ökotárs office, we see the removal of the leader of the Ökotárs in handcuffs, which was seen by far fewer people when we had to apologize for it, but I think the government was not bothered by it all. The only thing the government was interested in was building around it, as far as possible, an organizational unit lying to a civilian that helps to communicate with him, which helps with his campaigns. I remember very well, and I still have in my ear the sentence of the owner of Fidesz's 5th party book, who said, let me quote, "You have to pull them out on the takmukki and on their blood, if necessary, you have to beat them up. Zsolt Bayer said that it was so outrageous for him that the civilians at the Justice Committee protested against being branded. Yes, Mr. Secretary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] We also remember the days when, in order to maintain their operation, dozens of civil society organisations wrote about themselves that they were supported from abroad. I would like to point out to the record that the organisations that were included in the extremely dangerous citation were forced to write this about themselves, the stamp, the yellow star, if you remember from our historical studies, such as the Red Cross, such as the dangerous and suspicious Air Task Force, the Bátor Tábor or the Pearl Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to say and remember all this because without these, I think it is impossible to see a whole picture of the relationship between the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP association, Viktor Orbán or Lőrinc Nacsa with the civil sector. I think that this is the environment in which civil society organisations are trying to survive, and they are otherwise forced to do charitable work or, where appropriate, collect donations, and this is not easy. Unfortunately, this bill, which lies before us, will not make this any easier. Unfortunately, the government is only the good civil society organisation that is close enough to it, and yes, these fake civil society organisations, because let's face it, these are not real civil society organisations, from time to time, and they have to prove that they are loyal, they are loyal to the government, and I think that the already mentioned Civil Alliance Forum is indeed the top priority on this issue. The Civil Collaboration Forum received more than half a billion forints from MVM Zrt., a public company, and it turned out that this horriable amount, which would be dreamed of by civil society organizations working for important purposes and tasks, was spent making a video that cost 98 million forints per minute. [[13.50]] Just to make my fellow Member Nacsa feel what HUF 98 million per minute means: it means that your speech as a lead speaker, my fellow Member Nacsa, was 8 minutes 18 seconds, which would have cost taxpayers HUF 813 million 400 thousand for such funding. Wouldn't it be more worthwhile to do this job as a civilian than sitting here in Parliament? I think that this bill is all about strengthening the dependent relationship between Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance. This legislative amendment proposal is basically aimed at further strengthening the vassal system. Yes, please, it aims to strengthen the vassal system just as it is now common in municipal funding. I would like to indicate that Budapest's birthday will be on Saturday, and there will be announcements about this. I think it will be wonderful to show how this subordination relationship, this vassal system, manifests itself in municipal funding. And that's the same technique you're trying to pull on civil society organisations. The winners of the amendment will, of course, be civil society organisations loyal to the government, who, if they have good relations with the Minister, will be able to apply for money and support to the Ministry more than ever. I think that for this Habonyhanase, we can expect that a very significant part of the NGOs supported will support government propaganda in the Lokal and in other low-quality newspapers. I believe that this is why, among other things, it is not acceptable to amend this regulation in this way. Dear Parliament, The government is probably disturbed by the current situation of civil society organisations, because there are still some people who have not accepted that this country is operating in an opaque, untraceable, hard-to-check system, in a system that my fellow Member, Nacsa, created by Fidesz, and not only in relation to the operation of civil society organisations. At the same time, this legislative amendment proposal is unacceptable to us, because it is completely contrary to what would be desirable for the civil sector. It would not be the need to strengthen vulnerability and addiction, because I think that this is already an excessive and extremely blocking factor, but rather a much freer, independent civil sphere. And if the government had any confidence in itself, Mr Secretary of State, I would address this primarily to you, if the government had confidence in itself, it would dare to rely on the support of genuine independent civil society organisations. Because believe me, my fellow Member, and let everyone in the government believe that from these civil society organisations, who work practically 24 hours a day for goals that often go behind the background of fighting poverty, for example, there is much to be learned from them, but this should be done by means that ensure equality between organisations and transparency in the financing of the organisation. And until this MVM-CÖF issue is clarified, there are no legal procedures that I think could have been properly launched, in the meantime, I think that any proposal that the government is bringing in on the financing of the civil sector will be uncredited and ineffective. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai, who is speaking on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to rise. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Regarding the amendment of the civil law before the National Assembly and its policy on Fidesz civilians in general, the Dialogue would like to draw attention to the following: Cöf. Puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff. Puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff. Puff-puff, puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff. Puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff, puff. Töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf, töf...
u2018-11-14-56	Congressman!
u2018-11-14-57	Puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff-puff.
u2018-11-14-58	Congressman, you're a notary of the Parliament. Don't make a fool of Parliament.
u2018-11-14-59	Pig. Boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo.
u2018-11-14-60	Congressman, I must give you a warning and tell you that if I warn you again, I will have to exclude you from today's debate under the rules of the house.
u2018-11-14-61	Puff-puff-puff-puff.
u2018-11-14-62	Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to respond to a few things, not to Mr Tordai, but to meaningful comments. On the one hand, I would like to say that Antal Csárdi tried to outline the categories that exist between civil society organisations from the government's perspective. Congressman, there are two types of civil society organisations, one that is in the interest of the community and one that serves foreign interests. These are the two types of NGOs. Or I could give you a different kind of light: those who obey the law and those who do not. We can remember that when the National Assembly passed last summer the Act on the Transparency of Civil Organisations, the Law on Transparency of Foreign Financing, civil society organisations, Soros Organisations, and False Civil Organisations stood up and said that they encouraged everyone not to comply with the law, not to comply with the law and to resist the law. We believe that everyone in Hungary must comply with the laws. The encouragement that some civil society organisations encourage others to do so by these fundamentalist human rights organisations encourages others not to comply with the laws, we believe that this is outrageous. And interestingly, in the spirit of transparency, there was nothing wrong with the law of the Ecumenical Relief Organization, the Reformed Charity Service, the Israeli Cultural Institute, the Red Cross. I could list anyone on the list, you could look at it, it's in the spirit of transparency. Interestingly, the Soros organisations do not care about transparency, we do not know why, but it is not important. You also said that in the last eight years, the situation of civilians has only gotten worse than any action taken on civil society organisations. Well, Mr President, I would like to inform you that three types of legislation have been adopted in Parliament in relation to civil society organisations: (1) which has resulted in a budget increase for them, (2) which has improved their operating conditions, (3) which has resulted in a reduction in bureaucracy. Your party, LMP, also voted last year when there was a government referral to Parliament to improve the operating environment of civil society organisations, only you did not sit here at that time, and you were not yet controlled by the Ethics Committee or by an former socialist. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-14-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, Congressman Csárdi asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-11-14-65	Thank you very much. My colleague Nacsa is pissed off. You seem to be disappointed that the calculated HUF 813 million will not actually land in your bank account. However, what did you say, my fellow Member? That there are civil society organisations working for community goals and foreign goals, foreign goals. Did I hear you correctly? Then I expect an answer that you believe that the Red Cross, the Air Task Force or Camp Bold serve foreign purposes. It's written! There's a stamp on them, please, that we're talking about foreign-funded NGOs. My respectful question is what the Civil Alliance Forum is fighting for for for more than half a billion forints. What community goal does a few minutes of video achieve for HUF 98 million per minute? I want a specific and adequate answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members who else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Tuzson Bence: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[14.00]]
u2018-11-14-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to react briefly, on the one hand, because I do not want to go beyond the framework of the general debate. There have been issues that are already part of a detailed debate, but the general debate must therefore be about the purpose of the law and its main provisions. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Mr Savay, Mr notary, for his improvement, yes, he is right, we are indeed talking about millions of forints. However, on the other issue, as my fellow Member Mr Lőrinc Nacsa referred to, which is the support system implemented through the NEA, it is only a small part of the support system. Indeed, the total amount of subsidies has increased from HUF 144 billion to HUF 240 billion. The fact that subsidies are broad, can be used in many ways, can be applied for support on many lines, I think that's okay, that's good. There's a difference of opinion between us. I think that if we try to help civil society in a number of ways, there are those who, on the basis of such a form of support, are supported on the basis of a form of support, but the point is that these civil society organisations can receive support in Hungary. So from different places, on different channels, but supported by civil society organisations. My colleague László Varga, although he is not in the room, I find his speech very strange, especially when he called the establishment of such a support system unnecessary. It can't be called unnecessary, but it affects 62,000 civil society organisations, and 62,000 organisations can't be violated. I know it was different in their time. I know that there has not been much emphasis on supporting civil society organisations. They lived their lives in a different concept, this sphere was not considered important. [[István Szávay is replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] But yet I think it is unfair and unworthy to violate 62,000 civil society organisations within the walls of the Parliament. I consider it important to support these organisations and the current legislation, as it strengthens a support leg that is significant in the issue of support for civil society organisations. It was Gergely Arató, who spoke on behalf of DK, and I believe that there are irreconcilable differences between us about our views, what we regard as real and what we regard as unreal organisations. It is, however, that there are organisations that actually support the civil sector and strengthen civil society initiatives, and there are organisations that do not. They can't be confused. There are political parties, behind political parties there is a system of representation, behind political parties there is a financing system, a transparent, well-functioning funding system, but the fact that some civil society organisation or organisation called civil society is disguised as a civil society organisation, and in reality it acts as a political party only to avoid forms of support there, I think it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable, because it cannot be that in Hungary there are organisations operating which, by the way, receive support from abroad that has clear political goals, and that political goals are shaped as if they were acting as political parties without complying with the rules on political parties. This conceptual difference exists between us and our fellow Member, Mr Csárdi. I would like to draw attention to the courage here, because there is certainly one thing that our government cannot be accused of, that it is not a brave government to defend certain interests in order to protect the country. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this courage exists in all respects on the part of the government in order to support real civil society organisations and to strengthen real civil society organisations. That is what this proposal is all about. I would ask my fellow Members to consider supporting the provisions of the law and to support this bill as widely as possible. This is a good bill that will help strengthen Hungarian civilian life. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-14-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws in the context of copyright legislation on architectural works, technical installations and their plans until closure. The government referral is T/3293. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, the author of the item, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have a bill that wants to solve a very old problem. A problem that can be traced back to the times before the change of regime, sometime by the end of the 1980s, when the privatisation period started in Hungary. There are a lot of buildings in Hungary that were built after 1945, so after the World War, and its construction was completed before the time of the regime change. At the time, according to the specific circumstances at that time, they were large design companies, and they designed these buildings. Following the design of the buildings, the State then retained these rights, which are the design-related rights and the design-related copyrights and, by the way, the physical ownership of the plans, i.e. physical works, and the various design companies had these rights. This set of plans is, by the way, a very valuable set of plans, also because it is part of the 21st century. In line with the challenges of the 20th century, it is often the case that the building at the time is no longer suitable for today's technologies, so it is constantly necessary to rebuild, redesign and change functionally. Therefore, it is worth considering what to do with the copyrights that have been raised in these buildings. There are former factories, power plants, buildings suitable for the residence or even housing of many people. There is a need to consider the problem that actually stems from the period of privatisation. The problem is that, at the time when privatisation took place, copyright could have been different. One such thing was when the privatisation contract settled the further fate of copyright, i.e. the rights attached to the plans were transferred to the so-called successor-in-chief or to the company which purchased it. Several forms were possible, but copyright was arranged. There are also cases where the property transfer contracts did not properly settle the fate of copyright and, in fact, a hypothetical state was created. This assumed condition meant that these rights had been transferred to the successor company. I'm not saying this for nothing, because these companies were not necessarily successors to the original company. Indeed, this legal uncertainty is causing a lot of uncertainty to date, since these buildings have either recently been renovated or have to take place in the near future. Therefore, the issue of these rights is extremely important, since, together with the plans, the right to recast must also be acquired in order to allow redesign to take place. Copyright is constructed in such a way that there are two types of rights: transferable and non-transferable rights. Non-transferable rights are the rights of the person who is related to the author; transferable rights are such as the right to recast plans. These questions are worth settling. Of course, I must draw attention to the fact that there are no elements of this bill that would affect ownership in any form or that would be contrary to EU law. Care must be taken to ensure legal certainty in this regard also in Hungary. Rather, we need to focus on strengthening legal certainty and creating a clear situation so that we do not have to wait a long time to ensure that this issue is settled in Hungary, so that an agreement can be reached between the author/designer or the alleged rightholder, since these two can also be separated in this respect. When the privatisation contracts did not contain the appropriate provision, the legal consequences are well known. We know that in the case of several buildings, we had to deal with this, and there were either lengthy lawsuits or agreements to win the time. [[14.10]] We would like to see an organisation set up in Hungary that could settle these rights and even collect rights in one place. Therefore, the proposal contains a public register that could include these rights, we could see these rights, we could see where copyright is grouped. This would be a register that could comprehensively include the fate of copyright in previous buildings. We would like to achieve that state-owned and state-owned rights are grouped together, and the Lechner Knowledge Centre would be the real knowledge centre where these plans would otherwise be physically cultivated, rights would be transferred, and then use or claim to acquire the right to redesign. In this way, the legal proposal would lead to the fundamental provision of what should be done in respect of the rights of these buildings which constitute the copyright right of the State. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this legislation also contains provisions for the so-called orphan work. So far, it has been the National Intellectual Property Office of SZTNH, who had the right to make a statement in the case of copyright. In this particular case, in the case of construction, although this is relatively few, but still, as we generally know the designer, there is a case, and precisely the right to redesign, so the right to recast the work does not exist at the National Intellectual Property Office. So he can't give us permission on this point, so we would like to open up this opportunity and grant this right to the National Intellectual Property Office in this completely special case, which is completely special for building. I would like to stress that this legislation can solve a lot of problems and can also help public investment, and besides public investment, with the creation of a register for all other copyright registers, it can help everyone find a copyright holder, so it is very helpful for the construction industry, for the construction industry and for the engineering community. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Károly Becsó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Literary, scientific and artistic works and performances related to their use are protected by copyright. Copyright includes two types of fundamental rights: on the one hand, personal rights and, on the other hand, property rights, which ensure the protection of the author. If the author's works are intended to be used, the use may be made on the basis of royalty, subject to the permission of the rightholder. Copyright-relevant works include architectural creation and its design, as well as the building ensemble and the city-building joint plan. As stated in Mr State Secretary's exposé, the purpose of the bill before us is to make the copyright legislation on architectural works and architectural technical documentation created by employees of former state planning institutions transparent and streamlined. Dear House, I would like to highlight the very important and forward-looking step on the plan that the proposal clearly outlines the concept of national plans and, as a normal host, the state finally collects and manages these plans in a uniform manner through the Lechner Knowledge Centre. The Knowledge Centre is empowered not only to collect and manage the above-mentioned plans as proposed, but also to keep the architectural copyright register. According to the relevant provision, the builder and the designer shall, in a joint declaration, provide the architectural copyright register with certain data relating to the architectural technical documentation and to the copyright holder of the building built on it. I believe that the State will make up for an old deficiency in the interests of both the public authority and citizens. Often, the reconstruction, static reinforcement or aesthetic restoration of certain buildings is delayed or not achieved because the copyright holder does not give its consent or would do so only in return for disproportionate compensation. The draft before us also has a solution to this problem, which can make a significant contribution to ensuring that the reconstruction of the buildings in the country, which need to be restored, is carried out as soon as possible in the event of intention. Article 9 of the proposal is replaced by the following: § 2 of the Act states that for the purpose of restoring a building, architectural creation or its design, as well as the drawing of the architectural work and the work containing it may be duplicated and made available to the public without the author's consent or remuneration. The bill also contains another rule that should be highlighted in order to facilitate the use of buildings, which requires the architectural chamber and the engineering chamber to fix the charges that are recommended to compensate for the re-use of the plans. As the Secretary of State has said in his exposé, we hope that, in the event of legal disputes, these fees will help to make use of the plans at reasonable prices in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing the proposal, it can be concluded that the draft submitted for adoption takes account of the needs of the state, owners and designers, creates a balance of interests and improves the framework for responsible public asset management. In view of what has been said, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-14-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3293. We are discussing a bill, during which both the rapporteur and the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group presented very detailed reasons for this legislation and pointed out very carefully the detailed rules. As a matter of fact, I thank you for this bill, and the Group of Jobbik will support it. The other question is, I would like to return a little bit to why the legislator recognized that there were irregular relations here: it was not because in the last twenty-something years the wallet that was the owner of these issues, or the profession that dealt with copyright, would not have been sufficiently thoughtful. His most fundamental reason was that the architects and their widows, their heirs, all kinds of successors made money by starting to find out what had become of their long-standing involvement in the design, and, indeed, I must say, it was extremely distasteful for many of us and for a significant part of society to start submitting applications for the transformation, renovation and redesign of their old works. I am very pleased that the legislator and the legislator have avoided this news, and I am sure, although I do not have any information about it, but I can imagine that they have also presented their needs for a number of designer works that are still strongly in the use of the state and serve community goals. I consider that I do not have to say anything about the detailed rules, since we welcome them, but since we are discussing a subject of this kind, if I may say so, fellow Members, I would like to approach this issue from a slightly different point of view. It is, of course, very important, and we can see in the world the enormous amount of illegal work that is being used by authors, whether in the case of musical works or written works, and then in the case of works that have been produced in the course of computer signals. I say, too, that once a work of your own, which is new, and will certainly result in respect for society, is pleasing, and has value, we protect it by all means. In recent times, there has been such a bill when we discuss such a question. [[14.20]] But in terms of architecture, I would like to give the question a little attention, and I would stress that it is not the National Theatre, it is not the Palace of Arts, it is not this building, it is not wonderful great works, it is a high-end stadium, which really shows an amazingly strong creativity, creativity and creativity, but I would like to talk about it when we really talk about such simple eight times eight crap houses. And indeed, in recent times, and that is why in this proposal the legislator was forced to invent some form of tariff system and involve the chambers, because when architects did not have much work, they began to walk, say, in the last twenty years, the family houses they had planned and built as far as they knew, and to see if there had been any transformation, and they began to announce needs. I think it's a completely different genre. On the one hand, a private house, I experience it myself, because I have built up more than one, about 80% of the owner's client's ideas and about 20% of the architect's added creator, I emphasize, creative ideas. And then we didn't talk about, for example, the mason, who, compared to the original plan, puts a lot of innovations into the work, but not requiring a change of plan, and even a much nicer thing comes about than what was done on the design table. And today, in Hungary, the laws gave the horse to the architects. Now, most likely architects will not vote for us next ten years, but I am so not interested in this right now, I am more interested in what is the work, what is the author's work emphasized on this issue. Where is the creation, creativity and ability of self? And what is really very important is that today, I'm sure even those who do not work in this profession know that there are complete computer programs for house design, which, of course, have to be bought, there is nothing to talk about, but I now find that there is a house plan that has been completed and I stress: I am talking about family houses and holiday homes, so the software developer who creates small-scale constructions is more than the engineer who then sells them. I have raised this question now, since we are already talking about such a matter, and here is the representative of the Ministry, that, although I do not want this issue to be suddenly put on the agenda among their bushy tasks, I may not be intruding if I ask you to sit down in this area for the next, say, one year. I feel that it would be particularly important for such family-married construction projects to have something important in terms of design as a copyright work, so that citizens can be oriented to have the final consideration of the author's work in the paid fees. And we've made countless contracts in our lives, even with software developers, although they like to keep the source codes, but in many areas we've already developed contractual practices that, if possible, if someone once paid a million HUF for the plan of a simple nerd death family house, let's say if they want to replace a window in ten years' time, then they don't have to pay copyright again because the original creator changed his idea. So I feel that this is not in the best interest of society, nor is it so fair. On this issue, let us at least consult or at least stick our heads together and see if we can find solutions in order to avoid such situations in the future. I am extremely pleased that this legislation, on the one hand, settles the fate of the designers of state-owned buildings and state-owned former design companies established prior to the regime change on this issue, but practically such demands on society have focused on the fact that there may be some kind of deficiency here. The old buildings that have been recycled, redesigned, changed functions, I think have caused these legal problems, which are reflected in this proposal. At the level of simple planning, let us also come up with something so that citizens are not so vulnerable to this issue, and, of course, Jobbik's faction will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, After today's political debates and agendas, it is refreshing to have an agenda with such an agreement, and sometimes it has to be welcomed and appreciated, if any. We see that we are once again faced with a legislative amendment that solves a practical, real-life problem. I think it is important to come up with proposals that make life easier for a profession, for groups of society, for a group of stakeholders or for the whole nation. We have seen many of these over the past 8 years, and this is another example, as we have seen that the use of architectural works, architectural technical documentation and buildings in the copyright sense often encounters practical, everyday difficulties, and a significant part of today's public building stock is the architectural creation created by employees of state planning institutions operating in the period prior to the regime change, where the question of the ownership of copyright and property rights by the state arises. Under the Copyright Act, it is already possible to obtain a permit for the use of works of unknown or unknown right holders, so-called orphan works, under a special authority procedure, which also applies to architectural works and their architectural technical documentation. However, in the case of works of architecture, it is a problem that this permit does not give rise to reconstruction in the case of buildings constructed on the basis of the architectural technical documentation. In most cases, there would be a demand for precisely these uses. It is important to note that there are no elements of the proposal that would alter current ownership. The bill before us now does not rightly disturb anyone's legitimate property, and those who have copyright rights under the laws in force will continue to have them in the same way, I think it is very important to state that. The bill is also forward in creating a clear situation and already laying down existing legislation focusing on architectural works, in order not to have to enforce the legitimate interests of the State in every case during long negotiations and long court proceedings. I would like to briefly highlight three elements of the law. One is the creation of a copyright register for architectural works, to which data will be required. The Minister is authorised to lay down detailed rules; the non-public-credited register is kept and updated continuously by the Lechner Knowledge Centre. In the case of an orphan work, when the author's identity or place of residence is not known, the aforementioned authorisation of use for design documentation will then be extended to recast or rebuild. And finally, the plan will be freely used for the restoration of the building, so no charges can be requested. This is required by the legitimate interest of the owner to carry out restorations on his property. As my better fellow Member has said, this is a perfectly legitimate demand and a forward-looking law, so the KDNP faction supports it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-14-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, what my fellow Member Nacsa and Minister of State have said is what we understand, and let's just say that we consider the proposal to be a possible solution to this problem, so it is expected in principle, but of course we will also wait for the amendments, but we also expect it to be eligible. The question arises in what kind of negotiations were held with the Architect Chamber and the relevant local government sphere during the preparation, which is certainly worth a few thoughts, I think, perhaps in the closing word. In fact, if the Lechner Knowledge Centre is already given another task, which will otherwise have to be carried out within a one-year preparatory period, so a longer period of time, then perhaps it is worth talking about what is not strictly part of the presentation, but that, in the context of the simplified notification, citizens have encountered many issues and minor problems with the electronic interface, perhaps presenting the simplified notification as a slightly complicated announcement from their point of view. So if my previous opposition colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, has used the proposal, which may be manageable for everyone, for a little perspective, then let me add to our discussion today that, in the context of the simplified announcement, there is a clear need to look at the experience of the past years and, on the surface, about the things that often cause problems for citizens, there may be a need for corrections. [[14.30]] In conclusion, I would like to point out two points, and if the Secretary of State could give us a few more thoughts on this, I would like to thank the Chamber of Architects for how and in what way they could agree on the proposal and whether the local government considers this proposal to be an appropriate solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Hajdu. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-79	Mr. President. Dear House, The bill before us, I'll make it clear from the very beginning that although we found some interesting things in it, we will be able to support it. I would like to mention that it is interesting for us why we have here the bill on architectural works, because we could have also amended the copyright law, but interestingly, we would have amended the copyright law if it had already been on the agenda. By the way, it's a topical issue, a lot of disturbing, everyday matters, and as a former head of government, I know what kind of problems this is. I would like to start by introducing the concept of national plan assets, and the concept of national plan assets also leads to interesting conclusions. One is when it defines the concept, it goes back to 1884 and uses an 1884 law as an argumentary, which is 134 years old. The other law also uses 1921 laws, i.e. which are already 100 years old, as the basis for the introduction of the concept of national plan assets. But it is a matter of substance for this national plan, if we look a little more carefully at the bill itself. Article 30 We see, at the very least, this is what I consider to be the view that this particular law is a right, a right which can be understood as nationalising these rights. If we do not interpret it correctly, I do not want to go into a long discussion here, but I think that this section of the chapter entitled Fair remuneration of copyright, as set out in points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, clearly shows that it is a right infringement and I would stop for a moment at point 7. So it doesn't matter who we withdraw this right from, if and if it is a withdrawal of rights; that is to say, that you perform it in a public service, in an employment relationship, as a public service, as a public servant, or as an entrepreneur, or as a design which will now be subject to the law, and that right will cease to apply to the person if and if you were employed. If you've done this in a contract of employment, that is, if you've done it in a company, but in a contract of employment, in this case, withdrawal is somehow a cause for court disputes, I think. So the national plan is one of the things that we object to. It is not such an excuse that the law is not eligible for us, but in any case it is an interesting thing for us. A new way of nationalization, at least that's what we see. The other thing is that there is also a right under this law, such as Article 3 between the paragraphs. It also gives a special right. This special right is obviously due to what I just mentioned in the withdrawal. I would like to mention one more thing, that, of course, I have looked in professional circles at what is the opinion of this bill, and I have found that the Hungarian Chamber of Architects, the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, has not been involved in this preparatory work as an independent negotiator, as a public opinionist, at least for me. I would consider this very important, however, so that these professional representation bodies know this draft law, see it, and perhaps their opinion will be published later, if it so happens, in proposals for amendments. The Democratic Coalition does not wish to add an amendment to the bill. We can support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-14-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Tuzson Bence: Yes, thank you.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond briefly to what has been said in this debate. On the one hand, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for what they have said here on the bill. I'd like to respond to a few things. Yes, there have been discussions, so it has been a long time, for several years, with this bill, and there have been long discussions with both chambers, the Architect Chamber and the Chamber of Engineers. Moreover, the need was formulated by the architect society itself, not by accident, as it is also a problem for architects to redefine the work of another architect. So it was this type of negotiation, and I think it is also the result of a bill that was able to come up with a rather strong social consensus. The reason why the legislation came here from the point of view of drafting legislation is not whether this current regulation fundamentally changes copyright issues, but also makes clear provisions within the framework of existing legislation, in a specific area, in the field of construction and design. This is important to note, since it is very difficult to enter the copyright legislation itself and its otherwise complex, rather closed concept in this form, especially when due to the digitalisation of the world, there are major debates in the EU area on the nature of copyright and its further development. Not so long ago, perhaps a month ago, the European Parliament dealt with this issue, and copyright was quite well defined on the basis of international conventions. Not only EU legislation, but also bilateral or multilateral agreements in addition to EU legislation put copyright in a sufficiently closed or closed system. It is understandable, as it is about cross-border entitlements, and this change in today's world needs to be dealt with separately, but this is another issue. All we're talking about here is a tight segment. The national plan does not mean that we take something and simply put it in the fortune of the plan, but that the property that is owned by the nation, so it is owned by the country, by the state, must be treated in a uniform manner and there must be some order of uniform management. This is what this legislation is about and how rights can be transferred elsewhere, how these plans can be revised, the process of this must be properly regulated. That is what this bill is about in this regard. On Andrea Varga-Damm's comment, although she is not in the room right now, thank you very much for your support on the legislation, but I would like to note that we see the architect's profession and the work of the architect's profession as being a little more complex and circumstantial, because the Hungarian architecture society has done a great deal to strengthen Hungary and has work to do with the next period. It is, after all, that the buildings, the buildings that surround us, carry some meaning, something from the past. They are also present in the present, and they are going to the future, so in the future these buildings need to be given meaning, so the activities of architects should not be underestimated and should not be overshadowed. So, in future, with the proposal to achieve a kind of limitation of rights in the case of the architecture society, I do not support it in any way on my part, given that the responsibility of architects is great. [[14.40]] 'Cause if we look back at the XIX. To the century, we go through Budapest, that's how we know what the 19th century is. Company and what is the 19th century? 100th-century construction to feel that environment. Architecture, which can best convey the past to man. If we go to an old castle, we don't have to take anything into our hands, feel that environment, that effect. And the architects have a great responsibility, and that is why the architectural society needs to be strengthened as to what future generations will think about what the era of today was like. After all, this is an impression, an impression of architecture, an impression of the age, and what buildings are being built in Hungary today, it will be judged by the future, and most of society will draw conclusions from what the XXI was like. Hungary of the century. That is why I think that architecture, the architecture profession and society may need to be a little more prudent, supportive, and not treated as an opponent, but as a partner, and we need to strengthen the architecture society. They have a lot of responsibility in their hands, and our future is in their hands in part. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/3374. This House's IT network is accessible to all of them. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, the author of the item, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-83	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. It has already been three years since the Parliament established new rules on public procurement, and half a year's experience is available in connection with the introduction of the electronic procurement system. In this respect, Hungarian legislation is ahead of EU legislation, since the electronic procurement system was introduced in Hungary six months before the deadline of 18 October 2018, and the experience of which now tells us that it is worth considering the revision of the public procurement law. The experience of the past three years also tells us that certain provisions are worth touching. The practice says this to us, as three years is now a long enough practice for public procurement to ensure that the system of public procurement, the system of use of public money, its effectiveness and the protection of public money can be fully implemented. The regulation of the e-procurement system and its introduction to the legal level are very important, and this is part of the present proposal. There are proposals in this legislation to reduce administrative burdens in order to facilitate the application of the law. Changes in aid and aid beneficiaries are also reflected in a reduction in administrative burden, and there are also changes affecting institutions, as well as changes and changes to public procurement supervision, to strengthen the supervisory system. What is the e-procurement system called the EKR? They may have encountered this abbreviation several times. For the most part, procurement procedures can now only be initiated electronically. There is a state, a central system, which can also be interpreted as a pattern system at European Union level, and we have a very advanced system, and the problems raised with its operation are only technical problems, not related to its operation, not to systemic problems, but to certain technical issues. Technical issues could otherwise be addressed at technical level in relation to the electronic procurement system. The background works fine, by the way. NEKSZT Kft., which operates the background. is also well run by a state-owned company, by the way. So the system behind regulation and regulation itself is working pretty well. Obviously, because of the change in EU legislation, which is of course worth following in Hungarian law, changes in the electronic procurement system must also be monitored. This is part of what this regulation is about, but the point in this regard is that certain rules at the level of regulations were regulated in a regulation with regard to the electronic procurement system, so that rules on the operation of the system should be brought up to the level of law, so that the e-procurement system is a system behind which the legal background, the legal force and the legal guarantee level are also behind it. This is what the proposal to amend the electronic part of the public procurement system is, therefore, to strengthen the leg of law. It is very important for the public procurement system and for the functioning of the EKR to be a transparent, fast-functioning, easy-to-work system, which should also be operated in this way and should be further developed by the e-procurement system itself. There are administrative burdens that need to be addressed here in the context of public procurement, and by administrative burden we mean, for example, changes which, due to minor shortcomings, did not allow the public procurement contractor or the contracting authority to fill the gap. What we want to do here is to increase the possibility here for transparency, where in certain cases, which are very specific cases, we can talk about replacing certain documents, which, according to its content, does not constitute a replacement for a deficiency, so there is no special possibility to order a deficiency, and that is the case, it is no longer possible to replace the document in a different way, and there are special cases where such a replacement is no longer permitted by law. Here, we would like to confirm that these otherwise technical legal certificates, which are usually available, can be attached to the procurement procedure at a later stage. Article 5 of the Public Procurement Act. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 contains the organisations or conditions when certain supported organisations are listed in the legislation under a procurement procedure, not as a result of the European Union's procurement. So here it expands the subject circle in accordance with Hungarian law, that is, Hungarian law. This is, moreover, a significant expansion compared to EU legislation. In this regulation, it is worth an overview, as the current regulation involves a very wide circle of those who need to carry out public procurement. So, in the event that someone, a farmer, wants to buy a tractor with a small amount of state aid, there may be cases under Hungarian legislation that, of course, we and I think are odd for everyone, let us say, in some cases we had to conduct a public procurement procedure. Therefore, the law sets out the scope and the threshold that is equivalent to the EU threshold here. So we have raised the HUF 68 million threshold and the HUF 300 million threshold for works, for which public procurement is already required. But under it, these organisations, which, in particular, do not create an obligation to carry out public procurement on the basis of those organisations which do not fall within the scope of the EU Directive... do not, however, extend the scope of the EU rules to a much wider range of public procurements, do not have to carry out public procurement there and remove churches from the subject-matter, because churches are in such a special situation and their procurements are so special that it is not worth maintaining public procurement rules. It is also a general social requirement that the principles of fairness, auditability, genuine competition and economy apply in all aspects of public procurement, and that the public procurement supervisory system should also be strong enough. In Hungary, however, this supervisory system is a two-tier supervisory system, so it is safe to say, since the so-called KFF, the public body which is otherwise responsible for the supervision of public procurement, also carries out a serious supervisory activity in the case of public procurement launched by the State. [[14.50]] At the same time, there is also the Public Procurement Authority and the arbitration panel, which is then uniquely and much stronger than in other countries over the whole of Europe... otherwise, this type of body is generally not in Europe, there are co-ordinating types of bodies, otherwise such a central body, which deals with the control of public procurement at this level, is not. This works in a different design, there are states in which there is much more looser regulation than Hungary. So, on the whole, Hungarian legislation is also a rather strict regulation, a rather strict control regulation. Well, here we thought that certain clarifications might be necessary in order to strengthen the institutional system, and that certain tasks should be given to the authority in order to make the operation of the system as transparent as possible. For example, the management of the register of public procurement consultants is an important task that the Public Procurement Authority can carry later in order to ensure that these registers continue to be carried out in a transparent way that separates the State from the State. The terms and conditions of the arbitration panel are also particularly important in order to enable the arbitration panel to carry out its work in the area of its independence. Thus, this current amendment, including the regulation on remuneration, includes rules on personal conditions, as it is particularly important to pay attention to the sensitive area, so that the incomes here, the remuneration here, do not deviate from the remuneration available on the market, or there is no significant difference, since this is a responsible work that enables the assessment of the whole country on one side, on the other hand, the good functioning of public procurement rules and public procurement in Hungary. In the past, however, Hungary has made significant progress in public procurement in several areas. So let me mention, for example, that there have been so-called negotiated procedures, and there are still unbidden negotiated procedures, the number of which has also been reduced, so that the number of them has decreased significantly. These are serious changes in the recent period. The proper functioning of the case law and, in particular, the functioning of the public procurement supervisory system under the government, makes it possible for it to function well. I think that, by the way, these filters work very well in Hungary today, based on the application of the EU directives, the case law and the application of the case law. The strengthening of the institutional system is also due to the fact that the arbitration panel has cases where it can initiate an ex officio procedure and the right to initiate an ex officio procedure which should be initiated by the arbitration panel, the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds, i.e. the Minister responsible for innovation and technology, is now subject to the Public Procurement Act, so there is therefore a wide range of possibilities to further strengthen the redress system, the supervisory system. Thus, overall, practical experience has now been incorporated into the Public Procurement Act, so this proposal is intended to strengthen the public procurement system. On the one hand, the proposal also serves to strengthen the e-procurement system, clarify and clarify its regulatory environment, and, on the other hand, simplify procedures, speed up procedures and, thirdly, strengthen the supervisory institutional system. I would ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-14-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3374 ahead. The presentation of the essential elements of the bill was given in detail in the expozee by the former Secretary of State. So I would like to highlight in my speech as the lead speaker only some of the objectives that I consider important in this bill, or to present it to this House. The government basically submitted to Parliament a bill aimed at reducing the administrative burden on the application of the law, settling the rules on electronic public procurement introduced from 15 April 2018, changes affecting institutions and introducing measures to strengthen the supervision of public procurement. In addition, the proposal seeks to reflect or respond to other experiences in connection with the public procurement law, such as practical, professional comments, and thus makes minor amendments in several places. Ladies and gentlemen, From 15 April 2018, legislation on electronic procurement has been introduced. The provision includes the application of electronic communications in procurement and concession procurement procedures earlier than the deadline set by the relevant Union Directives, as from 15 April 2018. From that date on, as the State Secretary mentioned earlier, procurement and concession procurement procedures can and should be carried out electronically using an electronic procurement system operated by the Prime Minister's Office, called the EKR. At present, it is 424/2017 on detailed rules for e-procurement. The Government Decree of 19 December 2006 sets out the procedural rules for electronic public procurement, including those which contain rules other than the Public Procurement Act. In order to create a clear regulatory environment and to strengthen the primacy of the Public Procurement Act as the framework law containing the most important guarantee and procedural provisions, the rules of the aforementioned Government Decree, other than the Public Procurement Act, will now be incorporated into the law. The priority objective of setting up and applying an electronic procurement system is to increase transparency in public procurement procedures, to carry out procedures more quickly, to carry out procedures easily, to reduce administrative burdens and to support the control of public procurement procedures. With regard to measures to strengthen the supervision of public procurement, a so-called administrative service fee will be introduced, in order to reduce the number of negotiated procedures without notice and to reduce the procedures initiated despite prior consideration by the contracting authority in relation to the appropriate legal basis, in order to reduce their number, with regard to the legality checks of the Public Procurement Authority. Dear Parliament, Among the changes affecting the institutions, it should be mentioned that the proposal partially clarifies and partly adds new tasks to the tasks and powers of the Public Procurement Authority. Among other things, the amending provisions concern the personal issues of the Public Procurement Authority and the arbitration panel, the relationship between staff and their remuneration. In addition, the amendment extends the scope of the members of the Public Procurement Board within the framework of the Public Procurement Authority to persons appointed by the Minister for Innovation, the State Audit Office and the National Tax and Customs Office. The next important objective of the bill is to receive and process electronic invoices issued by contracting authorities in the Member States in accordance with the principles of Directive 2014/55/EU on the application of electronic invoicing in public procurement. The amendment accordingly requires contracting entities to accept electronic invoices in accordance with a specific Union standard. With effect from 18 April 2019, the amendment provides that the provision concerning the limitation of subcontractors' performance will be removed from the regulation in the case of works, in particular in the light of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the Union. On this basis, the draft law should have no other purpose than the broad introduction of procedural solutions to facilitate, accelerate and simplify the conduct of public procurement procedures. Simplification and acceleration will also contribute to a more efficient, faster implementation of EU-funded projects. It is also important to mention that, under certain rules concerning the application of the law, the reduction of the administrative burden will result in the removal of the institution of the annual statistical summary from the legislation. [[15.00]] On the basis of the determination of the body carrying out the control of public procurement, it is possible to carry out certain criticism actions in the event of an infringement detected following the transmission of the summary. The measure therefore helps to ensure that the contracting authority does not have to declare the procedure ineffective in the event of irrecoverable administrative deficiencies. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the legislative proposal presented in the previous minutes contains, in my view, sound and important measures to make the public procurement system more efficient, faster, more transparent and simpler, I would like to ask you with respect that, after the debate has taken place, you support the adoption of the proposal before us by your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-86	Mr Mihály Witzmann, thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the next lead speaker, who will be representing Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, I would like to ask: has the Member already registered for a repeated speech? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There is much material and little time, Mr. President.]] I see. Then it stays that way. Thank you very much. So the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-87	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, Jobbik's representatives, and I believe that many opposition representatives do not go beyond the framework of the general debate, but they are trying very deeply to deal with public procurement issues, even because it would be a fatal mistake to speak in itself about the cosmetic, often good, amendments to the EKR system. I understand that this lies ahead of us, but a patient should also be examined in a holistic world view in every medical facility, and it is not possible to narrow down the subject of examination to a single group of diseases here. But, of course, we have to argue with the justification, because the EKR system could have been put in the right direction in an excellent way, in a very well-educated and sophisticated way, if it concerned the whole spectrum. I must also say that there is already a debate here with regard to the basic objective. I understand that, in essence, the Government of Hungary complies with EU standards by introducing the electronic procurement system and trying to turn it into a kind of positive veterinary horse. Here the positive omen has disappeared over time, as we see that the types of abuse that have arisen in the past have changed in their methodology, but remain in essence. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] And I would like to say that if, say, we are discussing with Mr Secretary of State, and thank you for not only reading the general explanation, but also extending it with your own thoughts, so if the issue arises whether I am in favour of the SME declaration and the obligation to make certain declarations, or I support what is in this regard that this form of declaration should be abolished, I am in favour of abolishing it from the point of view of business development. So we will be able to find plenty of positive suggestions in this package that are suitable for cosmetics for the current system, so they will improve the veterinary horse that you were able to create a few years ago. However, this was not the Hungarian goal, nor the national interest, but it was not even the aim of the European Union, which I did not hold so much. In no way could the aim be to appoint practically one company as the operator of the EKR, to put in a monopoly a company that could actually put the entire circle of knowledge in the public procurement market. The aim was to broaden competition from one direction to another and to prove, unfortunately, how badly this failed, and obviously to clean up the market. When I talk about a monopoly situation, I see Mr. Secretary of State taking notes, not to think that I claim that there is only one company in the entire market, no one else, and that everyone else who works is banned by law; I say I am talking about who is in the position in this market. We also see that, in relation to the public procurement market, if we refer back, let us say, to the OLAF report, which examined similar market mechanisms, it has been stated that not only the possible maladministration of companies starting in public procurement can be a problem, so in Hungary the hotbed of corruption is not only the operation of companies, but also the advisory circle behind them... [[Tuzson Bence interrupts.]] I understand that you think it is a different area, and I do not think it is, and obviously, until there is a reprimand in this area, I would like to look at this issue in a system because we are talking about HUF 8000 billion in the 2020 funding cycle, and 1 percent of that, Mr Secretary of State, is eligible for advisory fees. So here we are talking about an amount of 80 billion, where the vast majority of the amount will land in my position and I claim to be close to government companies and law firms. I understand that it is not pleasant to hear a piece of information about this during this debate, but it is not possible to save it, especially in terms of saying the right thing, here it is understood in the good quote that, according to the Corruption Research Centre's investigation, during the examination of public procurement between 2009 and 2016, over 150,000 cases, it was concluded that public procurement could have been overpriced on average by 15-24 percent. Overall, I do not want to list all the data, but the conclusion is that in the period concerned, about HUF 2000-3000 billion is the amount that the Hungarian state paid completely unnecessarily, so that is what has passed through corruption mechanisms only in this narrow segment. I understand that since the introduction of the EKR there have been methodological changes, and let us not argue about it. I am also pleased that the suppression of the number of unbidden procedures has taken place in a demonstrable way. So there's no debate between us. However, I also make it clear that I may have argued with my fellow Member from Bajkai about how much the proportion of single-member or single-application public procurement has decreased, and I say that even the current level is something that they should not be proud of, but that it will bring Hungary to a European stage of shame. And if we look at the period since 2010, we see that the proportion of single-member or single-application public procurement was between 25 and 33 per cent per year, while looking at the Western European average, we see that up to 12 per cent of public procurement was there. There are very few national economies where the circle of runners is so narrow, and it is such a narrow economic circle that is able, by the way, to skim off the amazing profit that is actually not secretly being levyed in Hungary along strange overpriced and strange roundings. We will obviously be able to explain and ask questions about the various corruption mechanisms and methods in our normal speeches. But in addition to stressing that there are a number of positive moves in this package regarding the cosmetics of the EKR, overall, it cannot make the system clean and non-corruption, and as long as there is such a degree of corruption in Hungary, it would be irresponsible for us to support this package of proposals, but rather to set up an anti-corruption prosecutor's office that is able to fully look at these processes. To give an example to the Secretary of State and once again a positive point - I am very pleased that the GVH, the Hungarian Competition Authority, can now look at the documents that are important for its possible investigations, practically without a request. Another issue between us is how many of the GVH's investigations will result in judgments that reveal similar corruption mechanisms at the end of the flow chart. But I would much rather that all the information involved was fully available. To do this, it is not enough to make them transparent, say, the contracts themselves, not enough to upload files in pdf format to a web site, but to build a searchable, meaningful database where they can carry out the necessary investigations. As long as there are no signs of this, it would be very difficult to support this proposal with a calm spirit. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-88	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-14-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Mr State Secretary, in his exposé, and my fellow Member, Witzmann, have also explained the details of the legislation before us and the technical or substantive changes in the public procurement law that will change in the context of a total of six EU directives. I am also particularly pleased and would also like to express this fact that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has indicated that there are some changes that are acceptable and forward-looking to him in the law, and I think this is absolutely important. I would just like to say a few words about the main amendments to the introduction of the electronic procurement system. It is very important that electronic communications are mandatory in public procurement procedures, and we believe that this will also contribute to faster procedures, given the fact that the EU directives allow for shorter time limits for tenders in the case of electronic communications. [[15.10]] And I think that electronic communication also constantly strengthens the integrity and transparency of procedures. The EKR shall ensure the integrity of the data, the confidentiality of tenders until such time as they are broken down and shall ensure that each procedural act can be traced back to the log. As I have said, we see compliance with the six EU directives as a positive change. Administrative relief and administrative burden reduction are very important, since every small administrative or bureaucracy reduction in this area is to be welcomed, since we know how often procedures are complicated and administratively difficult the lives of both the contracting authority and the tenderers. I'd like to add one more thing. We welcome the fact that the churches will also have an administrative reduction, an ease, because the work of churches in society is significant. We believe that any reduction in the burden, administrative reduction is important to the churches. So I think that the KDNP fraction can wholeheartedly support the proposal before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-14-90	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-14-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, This is where I expressed my view that today's agenda has been very creatively put together, or that they have also been very attentive to the pressure of opposition representatives, because there is a proposal that triggers greater anger, and then there is a proposal that triggers agreement, and a sinus curve has the dynamics of today. Now we are at the top of the sinus curve or at the bottom; this is a matter of view, because what is the top of everything or the bottom of everything in Hungarian public life and in public procurement is a matter of opinion. In fact, by putting this forward, I am actually going to say that I am not going to be absorbed in this detailed regulation very deeply. In fact, I would like to make a few statements, and it will come from this that we do not support the proposal to shoot the joke in advance. Since 2010, there have been clearly fewer candidates in a given tender than in the past, i.e. there is much less competition to win state money. This is a statement that has been made by many people in recent years. Since 2010, there have been a lot more limited public announcements, for example, whenever invited or when it is unrealisticly short notice to open a tender. A third point: since 2010, the corruption risk index of all applications for a given year, i.e. the proportion of procurement awarded under suspicious circumstances, has been much higher. It follows from this that since 2010, the government has continuously, conceptually distorted the public procurement system in such a way as to allow pre-selected friendly companies to overpriced. This could mean a loss of HUF 320-340 billion to Hungarian taxpayers. To be specific, this amount could be used to create normal European-class wages, whether for doctors, nurses or teachers in the field of health care. About that amount of money would be possible. Obviously, you have decided that in the year of the families, Tiborcz, Garancsi, Mészáros and I could tell you more about the growth of families, but this is not surprising, because it was not only in the year of the families, but also in the previous years. This proposal, by the way, was already discussed in detail by my opposition colleague before me, of course, contains minor progress on the electronic procurement system. So, as is usually the case with such proposals, there is some progress, and there are some things that obviously cause this kind of increase in blood pressure at the top of the sinus curve here with opposition representatives, as I just said. To say some of these things: for example, the public procurement obligation will increase from HUF 40 million to 300 million; the threshold will increase significantly. What we've found here and whether it's moving forward or backward or in what direction, church legal entities will be exempt from public procurement rules. Well, this should probably be defined as a step backwards, perhaps towards the Middle Ages, which, I think, raises very serious problems. One word, like a hundred, contains clarification and improvement provisions in terms of direction and overallity of the proposal, but what we have seen over the last eight years in terms of public procurement does not allow us to trust in your good intentions in this sense. Our voting behaviour will also be appropriate. This is confirmed by the fact that, in addition to the wage arrangements that are otherwise justified in the public sector, the important thing for you is the increase in wages and the increase in wages of the Secretary-General of the Authority and the President of the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee, which raises very serious questions about the bill. We see that in this sense the present bill is nothing more than a continuation of the trend that you started eight years ago and clearly do not wish to change your established corruption system in any sense. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-92	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-14-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Let us continue in this tone, because it is difficult to distract him from the processes that we see, and which, by the way, Mr. Secretary of State would gladly leave out of the house, but he certainly left out of what he has to say. At the same time, however, it is worth going into some details, while the conclusion is, of course, that: you, in the framework of the public procurement procedure, rather than taking very good care of the sources and amounts of public procurement, rather than seeing the opposite attitude. You can see that whatever laws you're making, the result of that is that some close buddy is gonna get better. After all, it doesn't matter if you have a hat or no hat, the end result is the enrichment of the few names you can read so much about and so much can appear here. At the same time, we have this opportunity to introduce e-procurement, which we might as well consider to be limited by this European initiative, which will limit your previous behaviour, which is condemned by an entire world. And that is why I think that there is excitement about this, Mr Secretary of State, and that is why, given the last good year and a half, the amendment of the Public Procurement Act is now here for the third time, and it has new deadlines. This certainly does not show the predictability, the system, that you would otherwise do in this way as it would be easy for users to make use of. At the same time, the focus of the European Union's public procurement directives should be given to you in electronic form, the provision of public procurement documents in electronic form and the emergence of full electronic communication in this area, and the obligation to do so, I think, is very right. I would add that the conflict of interest rules related to this have been forgotten, and the conflict of interest in this regard, I think, should be addressed. Since 15 April, this should work practically the same way, but I therefore believe that rethinking is important in this regard, because you have ignored a lot of things. However, if we look at this whole set of 68 paragraphs, one of these should be highlighted, and all the others will be dealt with calmly by the Secretary of State. [[15.20]] And this is number two. §, which, I think it is clear to say, expands the legislative loopholes which provide new opportunities for all those who want to take advantage of it, to a limit, to contributors. The attitude or the step that happened to increase the sum amounts a year ago, that's when they took the bigger one, and now they're actually expanding the possibility of a hotbed of corruption where the smaller purchases are, because it's there in bulk, and the big ones are solved without it. This is why it is at the heart of the proposal, which is Article 2. § broadening the legislative gates as an administrative facilitation to extend the exemption from public procurement procedures, and then the very simple explanation with which Mr. Secretary of State, half-spoken here, has arranged for public procurement to be treated as a matter of faith and conscience, largely exempts church legal persons from the public procurement obligation but, Mr. Secretary of State, why? It's not about who's using it, it's about public money. That is why you should ensure this transparency, transparency, but that is exactly what you are doing in this paragraph. Therefore, this and the law itself, in this respect, are not and will not be possible in the first place. I would like to say again about the increase in the threshold, that we should go into details, because the previously increased threshold of HUF 40 million is now raised to a threshold of HUF 68 million. You have just mentioned the positives of this, Mr Secretary of State, that this will be the way to buy a tractor. I think that you are doing the wrong thing here, because buying a tractor is not the priority, but it is the need to ensure transparency. As far as purchases of HUF 300 million are concerned, they belong to the same category. In the detailed explanation, you are actually talking about tightening up, but the resolution also clarifies the decision of the government. This does not change the basis for reference in any way. So with you in this process, I don't think we can agree. Finally, I would like to point out with a longer perspective that this amendment, which entered into force just a year ago, has been submitted by the government in order to make the proposal much easier for public funds, I say, to spend it inaccessiblely. I'll give you a specific example of this. If they had already come here with an amendment, they could have also done so that the use of clear Tao money, which is also considered to be public money, had become fully public knowledge in the meantime, could have been introduced into the public procurement procedure. After all, public funds are being spent by users of this source and could accordingly have been included in this legislative amendment. The government can grant you immunity from public procurement at any time, even on the pretext of saying so. This is the next such part of this law. Thus, instead of looking for the cheapest use of public funds entrusted to them in open competition, companies will be competing for the favors of the government, which, of course, I understand your aim, but I say that public procurement, the use of public funds in this direction and the establishment of such a system of public funds are unacceptable. Not only by us, but also by professional organisations, these amendments in this sense, which you have tabled, are not necessary in many respects. However, as I said, it is incomplete, and I repeat that the rules on the use of tao money should be introduced. It would be worth talking about what we can consider to be the main consequences for infringements of the law on public procurement, and how you regulate this, what sanctions are being applied, but you do not want to deal with the details of this. However, there is one other area, since not only the Hungarian opinion, but also the international opinion, is that the public procurement procedure that you operate is not acceptable. We know the fact that investments, which account for 4.4 percent of GDP, so we are talking about a very large amount of money, if we are talking about the state of 2016 alone, 36 percent of the contracts there, you have acted by counting on and supporting one candidate who, under the previous procedure, could not have been declared winner. You have selected people to be the contest winners, that you really have to quote the contest winner, because this was not a tender, but an appointment, at your convenience. That is why this amendment to the procedural system, this amendment to the law that you have tabled, is so incomplete in this form that it is obviously unacceptable. It should be a lesson to you that the experiences that could be removed from previous periods both at home and at international level, and that nothing of this has been taught, the European Anti-Fraud Office has also found that the serious irregularities that could in essence have been created by your system, in no way, I see that they do not want to remedy it. To sum up, I think it is clear that such an amendment to the public procurement law is unacceptable and I do not recommend it to anyone. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-94	Thank you, Congressman. Now it's Bence Tordai's turn, but I can't see him. I'll give you the floor until Bence Tordai appears, Congresswoman Anita Potocskanya Kőrösi, but she's not here either. I would like to tell my fellow Members to stay in the Chamber. However, I will give Mr Z. Carpathian to Congressman Daniel until then.
u2018-11-14-95	Mr President, Dear House, Even before the President, the conductor asked me if I was doing my normal speech. How fortunate it is that we do, because we can use the opportunity to share not only our criticism of the public procurement system, but also to ask substantive questions. In particular, it is interesting to compare corruption risk materials between 2009 and 2015 with a comparison between 2016 and the current period. There is no doubt that there have been changes, and I think that there should be no debate between us, that moving towards the EKR has enormous potential, and that if we did this right, we would be doing much better than we have done before, then this whole market would certainly be able to clean up. The fact is, however, studies into the period of Fidesz governance saw that the numbers were not correct at two points. They found suspiciously rounded numbers of offers, some 60 percent of all public procurement, which, Mr. Secretary of State, is a rather brutal proportion. So, in terms of 60% of all public procurement carried out through your system, it is quite amazing to find such a mistake. [[15.30]] Then the prices were also examined under the Benford Act, which obviously tells you something, and this method can be used to determine whether the values are realistic based on the prevalence of the first figures in the prices. This comes from another branch, which is used to filter out accounting fraud and tricks. On this basis, signs of overpriced prices continued to increase between 2010 and 15 years. They found the record year in 2015 when most of the overpriced procurements were found. And now would be an opportunity for us, while the vast majority of resources are actually being outsourced to a very narrow business community, yet in the spirit of transparency and transparency, we can make some kind of change. I may not be surprised that where there was little competition to win the relevant public procurement, there was little or only one tender, or there was no public notice, about which we exchanged ideas in the previous speech, there was typically a higher number of signs of overpricing than where there could have been real competition, as well as methods of bookkeeping fraud or various abuses that were screened out by the methodology there, as in other cases where there is essentially competition. And I would also like to share another very important indicator with my fellow Members, and I would like to ask for an explanation of why this indicator has deteriorated and how further refining of the EKR system can lead to this indicator improving. And here we are clearly talking about the fact that, while in 2010, 9 percent of public procurements were carried out at a lower rate than the state's estimated cost, the winners were able to save on the state's money in 9 percent of the cases, and in 2014-15 only 1 percent of the purchases were found to have such a positive development, according to statistics. In 2016, there was a slight improvement in this respect, as this indicator has already increased to 1.8 percent. Thus, almost every two out of 100 public procurements were not necessarily overpriced on the basis of the statistical methods available to us, so we can still see that the number of public procurements where these investments could be made cheaper than expected has been reduced to a fraction. Obviously, in the information technology sector and the construction sector, there are overpriced prices that almost irritate all good people. It can also be said that an extremely high proportion of single-member procurement continues to point to the fact that these abuses are encoded in the system, Mr Secretary of State. So while we see that even in 2016, there was only one candidate in 28 percent of public procurement, we can certainly argue whether a Hungarian SME within the EKR should make a statement, or that this will not be necessary as a result of its registration. These are important developments, but this system must be reformed fundamentally, because the system is fundamentally rotting, according to which hundreds and thousands of billions can be transferred to a narrow business of your good knowledge. Once again, I would like to stress that I am not particularly moved by the OLAF report, and I am most oriented by what it says is worth focusing more on in Hungary. I am interested in the reality, the concrete experience, and the chances that a Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprise can contribute to the development of Hungary as a participant in public procurement, and by its added value, let us say, create and maintain Hungarian jobs. That is what we would be interested in, and steps in this direction are found in a very small number in this package. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-96	Did you push? Push! Push! Push! Push! [[Defiance. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea for the stenographer, don't enter that.]] Now, let us take Parliament's work seriously, fellow Members. Bence Tordai indicated that he did not wish to comment on the item on the agenda, so I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2018-11-14-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When I saw that the amendment of the Public Procurement Act was on the agenda, I was pleased to acknowledge it, because I was looking forward to finally making some substantive amendment and finally on transparency... I quote Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member Witzmann on what words were used: transparency will be ensured, simplified, accelerated, efficiency, administrative burden reduced, competitive position and, by the way, strengthening the whole public procurement system. I don't think they're coming back from this bill. I do not see them being implemented and proposing solutions to situations where contracting entities already have a practical understanding of who will win the relevant procurement procedure. I mean, let's look at a city council. Expensive public procurement and inadequate regulation for the execution of tenders are not a question. But when the bidders divide it between themselves, that you're going to do this street now, and I'm going to do the other one, and the third one is going to be a third one, and this bill doesn't provide a solution, and the whole public procurement law doesn't provide legal assistance to both municipalities and contracting authorities who are obliged to conduct public procurement procedures. But let us not go past the fact that there are two positive things in this bill. One is the clarification of the electronic procurement system. Indeed, it is important to legislate these provisions and thus make this electronic procurement system even better. The second is that in the case of framework agreements, negotiated procedures may no longer be negotiated without notice. I think that's very positive. Furthermore, the obligation to use an accredited public procurement consultant who is also responsible for framework agreements above a certain threshold; this is a tightening up of the law, so I believe that this is definitely a positive one. And I would like to turn to what I think we need to draw attention to, and my fellow opposition Members have said this more than once. If a contracting authority receives grants, the procurement threshold for works will be increased from 40 million to 300 million forints. I also believe that this may seem like a reduction in administrative burdens and that public procurement should not be carried out for a long period of time in the procurement procedure. But let's face it, they're opening the loophole. That doesn't mean that it'll be good for everyone to be able to buy a tractor. Yes, buy a tractor, but according to the rules that ensure transparency. I wanted to get to know you, but unfortunately, I didn't know how much the administrative service fee for the EKR would be. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give me an amount of magnitude, since this will be a burden on all contracting authorities; it will be a burden now, but I would like to know what magnitude this will be in the government decree that will be taken. I also think it is a negative move that the Public Procurement Authority will no longer publish on its website the list of contracting entities covered by the Public Procurement Act. I don't know how much of an administrative thing this is, because it's up now. Why do you have to take this out? [[Bence Tuzson: There's no such thing.]] I saw that the provision would be repealed, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State, since that point will be repealed there. I'd like to ask you three questions. One is the present bill 16. Article 46 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: Section 5 will be amended by requiring written communication of documents from now on. I've been listening to it all along, and it's in the bill itself that everything is done electronically through the EKR, but there is written communication here. I would like to ask you this: will we now return to the fact that everything must be communicated in writing, plus the EKR? The following is the present bill 17. Article 47, in which point 47 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 of Section 2 has been amended so that from now on the documents received in a foreign language are not asked for a responsible translation from the tenderers, but a normal, simple translation. I think that, obviously, in an English language, in a German language or in a language that might be acceptable, but let's face it, there are more and more documents written with Chinese characters. Not to require a responsible translation, but to say, for a normal translation, that you are obliged to accept it, I think this may be a mistake, especially, I say, for documents where special characters are used. [[15.40]] I have one more question. I saw that the bill was being implemented in several places, i.e. the price statistics issued by the public procurement authority are being drawn up. This can cause headaches for both contracting authorities and tenderers in determining the estimated value. I would like to ask you why this is necessary for this price statistics to be drawn up. I couldn't find an answer to that in the explanatory statement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu.
u2018-11-14-99	Dear Secretary of State, In the amendment of the 2005 Public Procurement Act, which is before us, on which we are debating and on which you have made a well-sounding amendment, there are a number of things, otherwise, that if you do not know how it is done in practice, then we should actually be glad that it is here before us, and now we will not regulate it in a government regulation, but in a law. The problem and the problem is, I think what I would like to do here from life, from practice, and from the debate of the law, but, of course, in connection with the paragraphs here, one of the 68 paragraphs. The problem with electronic procurement has been that it was unmanageable. Practically the person who wanted to apply was unable to manage this programme itself. Therefore, an industry was formed who could manage this program and were able to write it. That is why what has already been said here is that there have been such short deadlines that no matter how fast the companies received, it has not been able to translate and submit a good tender during that time. This is why there were cases where it was publicly advertised, but at the very least it was a valid tender, who could possibly win this public procurement. I don't see why NEKSZT Kft is in a monopoly position, do I? with his own program, because he understands. In a number of cases, we have noticed that I have taken the example from practice that there is somehow no interoperability between the knowledge of the NECSZT and the public procurement authority itself. The person who is the public procurement authority doesn't really understand the technique of this, the game of it. I'm sorry, I don't want to judge them, it's just that it's so professional that a company understands this country, and he plays this game behind our backs. The truth is, if we say that we want small and medium-sized enterprise-friendly governance, then a small and medium-sized enterprise was unable to submit a tender. So, on the one hand, he couldn't submit it because of the deadlines and, on the other hand, he couldn't afford the consultants who would have been willing to draw up a tender for him. I could give you a number of examples. They were advised to run in a consortium. In the consortium there was a company that didn't do any work, but had references, and in the consortium the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were the slaves who did the work in reality. It is true that there was a limit on the percentage of the work that can be done to the small and medium-sized enterprise and the subcontractors, and I see now that this is freed up in the legislative amendment, so there is an unlimited amount of subcontractors. I fear that another industry, the main business industry, will develop, which is the main business industry in one person, a smart law firm itself will submit applications. He has a man, a worker, a machine, nothing, because he beats up all the parts of the work from the subcontractors, and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can be happy because they have a job; he does the tender, the small and medium-sized enterprises only have to concrete, they don't have to understand anything. My fear is that this will develop and open up space for a new industry and opportunity for the bill itself, even if that may not have been the intention. I would also like to note, in the case of church-type state aid investments, that these investments are of a billion-dollar nature. This is a bit confusing for me, because in this case, the municipalities could also get a subjectary exemption, because the municipalities are doing equally important things, and we are adding self-esteem, which means that the municipalities are adding to this. Finally, I would also like to comment on this subject immunity raised from 68 million to 300 million. This means that two thirds of the municipalities who would be happy to receive 68 million would be even more so if they received 300 million, but not that much for a small municipality. The municipalities under 1000 will be virtually free of subjects, and someone will do the application for them, someone will do the job, someone will recommend that if you submit it, you can win it. That's the fear I have in me, and that's why I wanted to share this concern here in the debate on the legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-100	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-11-14-101	Mr President, Dear House, As the group dynamics show that there will no longer be a substantive debate here with the government side, I am preparing for Mr State Secretary's excellent closing words and trying to add one more question to the list of proposals that have been raised so far. I do not want to be deeply absorbed now in the fact that, when looking at 2017 and preparing for the big change, we can find plenty of four oligarchs close to Fidesz who broke up over HUF 200 billion in these specific tenders. The first place was over HUF 600 billion, and surprisingly, the Mészáros family's companies only finished 2017 in the fourth place in this respect, with HUF 299 billion in public procurement. I would like to stress that 83 percent of this was EU support as reported. What highlights another type of case, Mr. Secretary, is the former case of the laser center in Szeged, perhaps you remember it. Here, the Curia stated that a company was completely unlawfully excluded from the public interest, and although the Curia stated that this exclusion was wrongful, the investment was carried out without the company concerned. Obviously, we all know the details of the case as much as various press reports allow. I don't know any deeper than I do, so I think it's important to make this clarification with your help. After all, if there are no changes to final decisions, if there is no positive recovery in this system, then there is a question as to whether there is any point in seeking redress. It is also a matter of democracy that the possibility of redress should not be excluded from anyone. I would therefore be very interested in the fact that in these cases and in similar cases, so when it was said that it was illegal to exclude a company, how can it happen that everything is going on in the original way and that there will be absolutely no change. I also think that there should be strong consumer protection instruments in this regard. I do not want to go into it, because today there is another item on the agenda, but the construction authority would, if necessary, have new types of official tools to act on, but obviously, let us narrow this matter down to this item on the agenda. I therefore urge you to answer our points one by one and in substance. I know it's not an easy task, because it's been said in many ways. It would have been easier in a meaningful debate, but it may not be too late even in the closing. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-102	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence, the author. [[15.50]]
u2018-11-14-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You're in a difficult position to listen to these comments. For one thing, because how do I put this? One can make sure that this is a profession, and it is good to have some awareness of those who comment on these questions, and it would be okay to put a little order on these issues in terms of concepts. It is difficult to comment, because sometimes the questions you are asking cannot be interpreted, because they do not make sense in the legislative structure or in the questions you are asking, it is simply not possible to know what they are talking about at times. Who are the actors in the procurement procedure anyway? Let's start from here, from the basics, because I see that this is also a problem in a public procurement procedure. There is a contracting authority on one side who is asking for the tender, so it is the body that is subject to the Public Procurement Act, which must initiate the procedure. As a result, there are certain misunderstandings that the person of the contracting authority and the particular paragraph that is being amended, which you have referred to earlier, which is a part of the scope of the subject, and therefore, in respect of the thresholds for part of the group of beneficiaries, I pointed out directly here at the beginning that we are not talking about the provisions of the directive, not about the EU rules, but about the domestic rules, and, moreover, the thresholds that have been included in the law are those European Union thresholds, and these contributions are also incomprehensible as a result. So I would ask that, if you are prepared for such a debate, you should also be prepared from a professional point of view, if you are already approaching or trying to approach a parliamentary debate from a professional point of view. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] The bidder is on the other side, who makes the offer. And that is where the issue of the electronic public procurement system comes in, what is this system, because I see that in this regard, the incomprehension, whether it is desired or involuntary, does appear within the walls of Parliament. The e-procurement system is not a competition, it is a public procurement system operated by one State, which must then be electronised. So I say this to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpát, that there is no such thing as competing electronic procurement systems. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what I'm talking about! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You don't understand what we're talking about!]] e-procurement means a system, a single system. And there's no such thing as NEKSZT Kft. is in a monopoly position, since the State has only one company that operates it and creates it. So this is not a competition, it is a system operated by the State in this respect. On the other hand, there's the counselor's question of who the counselors are. Advisors are operators in the procurement procedure, those who help to carry out the procurement procedure. They typically appear on the side of the contracting authorities, but, moreover, advisers often help the contracting side, so that the public procurement system can be operated. And I see there's also a conceptual disturbance in public procurement supervision. So who is involved in public procurement supervision, what is the Deputy State Secretary responsible for public procurement supervision in Hungary, what is the Public Procurement Authority and what is the Public Procurement Board and what is the court after that, there is no order in this, I see, in the heads. Therefore, the Deputy State Secretary responsible for public procurement supervision has a filter task in respect of all procurements which are started by the State itself, i.e. public operators. And there is also a Public Procurement Authority, the body of which is the Public Procurement Board, and the Public Procurement Board as a final filter in front of the court system as a quasi-privileged judicial authority, which is then the Court of Appeal. This is what the public procurement system looks like in Hungary today. And, you know, it's a very surprising comment, and it's growing together, because they're talking about a corruption research institute and they're referring to the data of people who start from totally wrong data. It is no coincidence that this organization is an organisation financed by György Soros [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] We are talking about a Soros organisation; its figures are completely wrong, so much so and I say this to my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who referred to this as a 4 percent decrease in the number of single-member bidders in Hungary in recent years. We are below the EU average by 4 percent, by the way. So this is what Hungary looks like in this regard today, nothing greater than in the European Union. My fellow Member, László Varga, said a sentence that surprised me very much when, in fact, he declared the churches of Hungary medieval. I ask my colleague Varga... [[Dr. László Varga: The direction of the proposal! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The procedure!]] I ask my colleague Varga not to insult the churches. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right! Dr. Laszlo Varga: Don't lie. Don't say that. Listen, don't do that to me.]] And through the churches, don't insult the community of believing people. Don't insult him, please. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're lying! The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe that what you have said in this regard [[Dr. László Varga: You're a lousy liar!]] the specific offence [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: No! The thing is, you're lying.]] And on top of that...
u2018-11-14-104	Congressman!
u2018-11-14-105	...and his references are lies, because it was that government... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-14-106	Mr. Secretary. I would also ask you not to lie to your fellow Members. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: But he lied! Nacsa Lawrence: Him?! A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] And I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to accept normally what the Secretary of State has to say. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Please don't force me to take the seat. Thank you very much. [[László Varju: Then we should shout a little more!]]
u2018-11-14-107	Ladies and gentlemen, After all, the truth is that the period referred to by you and the period referred to by László Varju was the former government, your governance, which is not the last period, but I think that any government in Hungary was the time of the most corrupt government of all time. [[László Varju: Watch out because the meeting is closed!]] It's enough to refer to subway four. And that's just one example. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No! Even voters know it's not true!]] in the multitude of examples, when procedures have been launched in this regard. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Cashier, Tiborcz...]] We'll see how this ends. In any case, the fact that there was not only suspicious, but indeed illegal, is now quite clear, by the way. [[László Varju: Lőrinc Ripper!]] But, you know, my fellow Member, what you said, I was surprised because I didn't really understand what you were talking about, but then I realized in the meantime. I realized it because when you referred to the second. I've come to realize that so far, I've been able to read the law. The only thing he could get into was the rest of it because your questions weren't meaningful. In addition, there are no such rules in the law at the moment as you refer to. Now, the rule that applies to the subject circle is a forward rule. So what is in the law is precisely in the section referred to above, and what defines it, makes it clear who has to carry out public procurement as subsidised, and I think that is a clear regulation, that is a good regulation, and we are talking about legislation of a forward-looking nature. Here we have one or two more questions about our public procurement system. Again, I do not want to go to another field in terms of genre, but we are at the general debate of a law, we can start talking about certain sections of the law, and how certain sections of the law make sense, and what certain types of procedure mean. For example, in the case of the translator: what does the term "translator" mean and what does the earlier term "translator" mean. It was not the official translation in the past either in the case of public procurement, in practice and on the basis of compliance with EU rules, any translation had to be accepted. These are all EU transfers, and they can obviously be analysed through a detailed debate as to how changes of this type result. Typically, such conceptual changes always result from changes in the directive or from the rules of the Directive. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the public procurement system is, by the way, a legally well-defined system, so it follows from EU legislation and, by the way, from the legislation of the directive. Moreover, Hungarian legislation goes beyond European regulation in this respect, the electronic part of it is exemplary throughout Europe, that is what I say, and I hold this claim, it is a very well-functioning system. And our public procurement system is, by the way, a much stricter system than in any other EU country, we in Hungary have one of the strictest procurement procedures and procedures. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this bill, it is a forward-looking, good bill, and it can further strengthen our well-functioning public procurement system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2018-11-14-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements until closure. The government referral is T/3370. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Tuzson Bence, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2018-11-14-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We are talking here about a very important regulatory element, a kind of transformation of the administrative system, and in the context of the transformation of the administrative system, there are limits that should be brought into line with each other. Such a deadline is, for example, the date on which the courts set up, on which we discussed the above, so it is worth adapting all elements of the regulation, including the sanctioning system, to the regulatory changes of this type. Accordingly, the current regulatory amendment is also of particular importance, even because we are talking here not in itself about changing a time limit, but about the time to prepare for a sanctioning system, and in the event that it goes on to court, the unity of the system should continue to be sustainable and we should be able to provide adequate time for preparing for the sanctioning system. The sanctioning system is always more important than we would think at first glance, and the essential element and this must be achieved is that citizens, businesses, who are affected by the sanctioning system, are able to properly prepare for it and see it as an instrument of enforcement and not as a punishment. This requires that the preparation time is in any event sufficient, and the different system changes are brought into line with each other. That is what this proposal is all about, and that is why we would like the deadlines to be aligned here. It is also very important here, and it must also be prepared, that an electronic registration system must be established, and I consider this particularly important, which is able to coordinate all sanctions as a register with each other, so that it is recorded and therefore excluded from the double sanction system, so that, in fact, one can be sanctioned, whether twice or otherwise, in some other procedure, but in a coherent procedure. By the way, Austrians have developed a system very similar to this, and they also have a very serious register of this type, which links the parking ticket to each other, and in Austria this is a wider circle than in Hungary, which would be allowed from a legal point of view. However, it is important to have such a transparent, good set of rules, which can also give the authority some kind of guidance on the sanctioning system. Accordingly, the transitional regime, which is currently in force in the law, is also particularly important to extend the transitional regime, since the sanction system is still in place today. Here, our system should be seen as a system of sanctions that has been transferred from previous administrative regulations to continue to operate by Ákr. in addition to a specific sanction system, until the preparation period, until the new sanctioning system, which can already be included in the administrative system and then in the judicial system in the review procedure, enters into force. So, in the next period, it is necessary, in order to ensure full coherence of the legal system, that we now take this step also at legislative level. I would just like to note that there should also be a review of a number of legislation and sectoral rules. Here there are 70 laws, 30 government regulations, which are worth reviewing and reviewing, precisely to ensure that the rules system and the sanction system related to the rule system work properly. Satisfying policy needs in this respect is particularly important, and I also consider it particularly important that the sanctioning system be developed and designed in such a way as to provide a relatively simple and relatively transparent sanctioning system, i.e. to have the relatively clear categories and the categories that can then be referred to across disciplines. Therefore, an act of roughly the same weight will be sanctioned in a single band. In the future, this will also have to be taken into account in Hungary. These are changes affecting a number of jurisdictions, especially those relating to judicial proceedings, which I have just referred to. There are two more important rules in this current legislation, one of which is, in a sense, technical, although in other words, changes affecting the criminal sector. In the case of criminal proceedings, there are cases where the penalty is linked in some form to the administrative penalty and it is worth bringing these two together. Therefore, one year after the closure of criminal proceedings is proposed to allow the authority to proceed with the procedure and to determine the administrative sanction in criminal proceedings where such a penalty is not excluded. Another change of this type, which also relates to the specificities of criminal proceedings, also means the withdrawal of the sanction by the supervisory body or by the issuing body, which may result from the judicial judgment. I would ask my fellow Members to support this amendment, in particular with regard to the unity of the administrative system and its change at the same time. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-14-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to establish coherence in the legislation in the area of administrative infringements, by proposing amendments to the general administrative statute and amending the date of entry into force of the sanction law by 1 January 2020 and, finally, by extending the scope of the law providing for transitional sanctions for administrative infringements until 1 January 2020. Supporting this proposal is an essential condition for achieving the public policy objective of excluding legal uncertainty and ensuring a clear and clear application of law. Dear House, The basic design of the proposal is to ensure that Hungarian law is as transparent as possible in the event that a particular case provides the basis for criminal proceedings and the conduct of an infringement procedure. It is also an important issue concerning the constitutional rights of citizens to regulate the output of procedures in parallel, according to the standards of two different jurisdictions. The reasoned amendment of the General Administrative Regulation and the Sanctions Act in the draft law would allow the supervisory body to change, annul, and, if it appears necessary, to require the authority involved in the case to proceed with a new procedure, as provided for in the judgment in criminal proceedings. In this way, it is possible to eliminate the fact that the same person is subject to the same negative legal consequences as a result of proceedings under the rules of two different jurisdictions for the same act. The principle of Roman law also declares this, according to which no one should be held liable twice for the same act. It should be stressed that the proposal pays particular attention to the fact that the number of unlawful conducts that may be subject to administrative sanctions is much higher than that of acts with relevance to criminal law. Therefore, a person's actions do not exempt him from the adverse consequences of administrative law, even if the criminal court has decided that the offence or the offence has not been proved. Therefore, if an unlawful action constitutes an infringement in accordance with the standards of administrative law, the authority competent and competent in the case must take the necessary measures and carry out the infringement procedure within the framework of the law. I would like to highlight one more important fact about this proposal. The amendments also do not provide for an exemption from the application of the adverse consequences of administrative law where there is a reason for the accused's criminality or for the criminality of the act, which results in a judgment of the Court of Justice being acquitted. This is an important provision because the law-abiding person must clearly see that the procedural capacity governed by administrative law is essentially different from the procedural capacity in the criminal sense. Ladies and gentlemen, The infringement law has always been a very mixed area of law. In many cases, it also puzzles whether proceedings should be conducted against the perpetrator in accordance with the rules of administrative law or criminal law, or whether the authority or the court is obliged to act. I believe that the proposal on the table contains the necessary amendments to make clear and clear decisions in such cases. On this basis, the Fidesz faction supports the adoption of the proposal, which is what I ask of you. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2018-11-14-112	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-14-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'm going to try to talk very slowly, because I've had to make sure of the last two legislative proposals. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] That Secretary of State Tuzson Bence doesn't understand what we're talking about, he misunderstood my words, and he was able to misunderstand the other law. I have to say that I do cry back at this time, although they don't usually give a meaningful answer to substantive questions, but then I cry back, Mr Dömötör, Mr Retvári, Balázs Orbán and Mr Völner, because at least they really understand what we are saying. The point for this proposal is as follows: of course, it must be supported, because with this terrible public-law transformation system that we have experienced in recent years, we need to create an amazing number of transitional rules, and very often there are problems of coherence between the transitions of the legislation that will still apply in the future. In fact, there may be abstract situations in which two different proceedings are initiated against the same perpetrator or fact-realization person, but in practice I have the experience that otherwise it is not general. For example, the most prominent example of this is when criminal proceedings are initiated on the grounds of a traffic accident, where one of the motorists involved broke a rule and is automatically prosecuted, when most of the time one of my last cases was like this, or it is very often revealed in criminal proceedings that the criminal case was not fully implemented by the lawbreaker, but should have been prosecuted because it was a violation of the rule, but because it does not start, so there is actually no legal consequence of what he has actually done. So I am very pleased that the legislation now tries to give the task of the case law so richly, nicely and roundedly, but I am afraid that there will be time, while in the case-law, the administrators of the respective organisations or those who initiate proceedings will apply it precisely this way. The fact that it must be avoided that, even in the same facts, there are two different legal consequences, but it is also a fact that such a fact is rare because the applicability of an infringement is generally much broader than a criminal law consequence. Therefore, the Jobbik faction will, of course, support this proposal, and thank you very much to those Ministry of Justice workers who are doing an amazing job of sacrifice in order to make the case-law less embarrassing as a result of this huge transformation, and not to make precise provisions for transition situations, that is to say, those who are involved in this and make proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-11-14-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-14-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As I said earlier in my comment, in line with today's dynamics, this will be a less dynamic agenda, and obviously, if it has been said here before me, I confirm that the avoidance of double evaluation is highly eligible. I think that the proposal is okay in this sense, and it is not in vain that the entry into force of the original proposal has been pushed forward. In fact, I would only suggest that if there were problems of this type with the original proposal, it might be justified to repeal the entire proposal and start the whole codification procedure again. But one word as a hundred: the proposal itself can be accepted and supported in its direction. Speaking of dynamics, since today's proposals have obviously been discussed in this sense, I have not been able to ask for a voice because of personal attack, in the context of this type of agenda, I would like to add a guide to my modest person to Mr. Secretary of State, if that is the way that you are interested. I can't be upset with much other than Hungarian football, by the way, perhaps by not interpreting my thoughts exactly as I have said, or, let's say, taking them out of the environment. Now, there's no such thing on this agenda, but in order to close it short, I'm telling you that there's only one way to remember today, because the hours here are going to be very long when we're supposed to be here together. What I have been trying to express as a criticism of your proposal is that if church legal persons become exempt from public procurement rules, it is otherwise considered a step backwards towards the Middle Ages, and I think it is against the interests of the Hungarian churches to be clear. So, in respect of them, I say to you in particular that I think that any such favoritism in front of Hungarian society is damaging their prestige and harming them, as well as the churches. By the way, I don't think that's good, and that's what I memorized in particular on the previous agenda. I'm just saying that so we can always remember exactly what happened. I don't think if that happens, then I'm gonna be as volcanic as I was before, but I think a lot of people know me here a long time ago, so they know that this really happens to me in a particularly justified situation. In particular, as regards the proposal, I would like to say once again that the shortcomings in the original proposal can now be described for a long time, and even that the codification procedure can be started again, but basically avoiding double evaluation is an eligible case on our part. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-116	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Bence Tordai indicates that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. [[Defiance. Gergely Harvestó: That's next week! Bence Tuzson: We're not there yet! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Freudi comment!]] Excuse me, excuse me. That's a later period, maybe. [[Bence Tuzson: Let's hope this doesn't happen.]] So Secretary of State Bence Tuzson does not wish to respond to what has been said. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/3373. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-14-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and for the precise mention of my name now, in particular. But on the subject, right now, we are talking about amending the law on municipal law in order to clarify an important legal situation, which is that if we have a public area and this public area can be used for a variety of purposes, then, of course, the basic goal is that these areas should always be used for transport, as they give the main function, but when these areas are not used for transport purposes, we should be able to resolve the order under which public space can be used for the use of a public area and how different competing organisations can use and where they can be informed at all about the use of public spaces. Here, too, we can always see in these cases that we are talking about competing various rights and various constitutional rights, and when more rights compete with each other, some decisions must always be made. To this end, it is necessary to establish an information system that is essential and accurate, i.e.: those who wish to occupy a public area know precisely whether these public areas are available; if a person submits a claim, then the public area needs that have already been submitted will also be covered in an area where otherwise other needs have been submitted, or if anyone has already received an official consent or a shareholder's contribution in connection with the use; otherwise, there are such specific cases where this is the case. [[16.20]] In this regard, I have already talked about competing rights, but now this law proposes the creation of an electronic information system that is finally able to manage this information in a uniform way, and to treat these proposals in a uniform way, by creating a register, which is not a public register, but an indicative register, but an indicative register that helps everyone. On the one hand, the register also assists the public authorities in carrying out their own work, so that double decisions can be avoided from this point of view and, on the other hand, it also helps the use or use of the public domain by organisations or persons seeking to use them for other purposes. Once again, I stress that this system is an indicative system, so it does not have any binding elements in any way, it is not a credible system that we are talking about in terms of the credibility of the data, but we are talking about an indicative system. Another issue is that it is worth considering that such a credible system may be established later on, so it may be a matter of time if the experience of such a system is such that it is worth considering. In Hungary, public-credit systems and registration systems have worked and functioned in parallel. We need to design them in such a way that they do not otherwise compete with other systems containing public-credit data, so we must pay attention to this in all such cases, which is why the implementation of this system is now an indicative one. As far as the substance of this proposal is concerned, this proposal primarily concerns the need for a public information system accessible to all and for the users and the public to be properly informed of this information system. I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-14-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have had the opportunity to negotiate the protection of the settlement image here in the Parliament on several occasions, but it proves the importance of this issue, and I also believe that Hungary's Fundamental Law mentions this topic as a priority area, the image of settlements, the appearance of settlements. The fundamental right to protect a healthy environment named in the Fundamental Law includes not only the protection of the natural environment, but also the protection of the built environment created by man's creative work. We can also say that the appearance of our settlements is, in fact, a determining part of the local culture, a determining part of the local culture, the image and image of each settlement receiving the arrivals, the people who live there, their face towards the outside world, and the place where we live, and this really determines the moments of our daily lives. I therefore believe that the Law on the Protection of the City Image provides a comprehensive regulation for the long-term shaping and shaping of the visual environment of the settlement. Specifically, the T/3373 in front of us. The main aim of the legislative proposal is to create an electronic information system for both citizens and public authorities, on which the Secretary of State has already spoken, which provides information on the various rules, decisions and options that affect the use of public areas. In the context of the bill, it is also important to emphasise that one of the basic locations of human life is the urban environment, which has a significant impact on quality of life and the viability of settlements, one of the important elements of which is the appearance of our built and natural environment, and the aesthetic quality of the public areas of settlements. In addition, account should be taken of the fact that our villages and the public areas of our cities also have individual and community functions, such as the provision of transport areas. Ladies and gentlemen, The protection of the settlement picture also includes adequate information for the community, which is represented by this motion, as there is not yet a single, freely accessible source of information or IT information system available today, from which the fact or future needs of the use of any public area subject to authorisation, consent or notification would be known to interested parties, and this often creates difficulties for both citizens and other organisations of society and the authorities involved in their competence in carrying out their daily duties. T/3373. Legislative bill No 1 aims to create an electronic information system that provides up-to-date information on the needs and decisions concerning the use of public space, which creates an online interface that is freely accessible to anyone via the Internet. It is important to point out that the system to be set up does not constitute a public register, its data content would for the time being only be informative, helpful and would fulfil its function. It should also be added that the data of the electronic information system do not limit the legal provisions of the determining bodies, such as the substantive examination of different applications or notifications, the right to be examined, nor do they exclude anyone from making a claim for the use of public space. As we have heard from the former Secretary of State, it is actually a kind of long-term strategic objective of this motion that, as far as possible, the development of a public-credit register can, in time, develop or take place from this information system, to which the operation of the information system under the proposal can in any case provide useful and expendable experience. According to the proposal, the government will appoint a responsible body to ensure proper operation for the operation of the electronic information system to be developed. At the same time, the bill removes from the concept of public space the traditional places of national holidays or even mourning days, memorial days, or other localities such as religious holidays for the duration of the festive event and the preparation for it. In fact, it does nothing but ensure that these sites are, by virtue of the law, exempt from the notification procedure which otherwise governs public areas. These places, therefore, can be said to be actually occupied by the law for the time of these celebrations. Dear Parliament, I think that the protection of the settlement image is in the interests of all of us, because this law ensures the quality of life, the local environment and the vitality of Hungarian citizens, which is added to the proposal for an appropriate information system in the context of the present proposal. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support, on the basis of what has been said, the adoption of this proposal together with the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-120	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-14-121	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the exchange. I'm glad the Secretary of State is back in his seat. That is why we have been shocked to see what legislative amendments they can submit to the plenary session after the past eight years, which they can present to us, while listening to the keynote speeches, that the protection of the settlement image, the protection of the people, is for the benefit of the people. The aim of the first amendment is to establish an electronic information system that would specify whether public areas can be used without limitation at a given time, so that public authorities or stakeholders can monitor whether a meeting or other event has been registered before. In our view, this amendment could even be eligible if there were much else not included in this package, except for the risk of who will build this system, who will manage it, who will operate it, and how much it will cost taxpayers in essence. And now the second part of the amendment, which is a little more exciting, is the restriction of the right of assembly on national holidays, commemorative days, with reference to the alleged traditions which are totally unacceptable, contrary to the Fundamental Law, the Law on the right of assembly and the provisions of all relevant international conventions, I add, to your Fundamental Law. That's another border the government's crossing. I've said in the last few days that you're nationalizing state holidays. [[16.30]] You are planning to lay down rules now, indicating the dates when you could not be on national holidays, mourning days, and one of the most shocking, in the name of Christianity, referring to Christianity, allow it to be allowed within the walls of the House during the Advent period. We were shocked to see what they had prepared. Since the change of regime, we have not experienced such a thing that any government could have allowed or allowed itself not to celebrate on national holidays in a place where it asked for the right permissions, as it would have done on the occasion of the holiday, respectfully, celebrating the holiday. I believe that this is the right of every citizen to do so, and you want to take that right away from the citizens. They list in this law what the holidays are, and what locations in Budapest, in particular, would forbid anyone from celebrating the national holiday. And, of course, the municipalities would be given the right in the settlements to indicate on which day, which holiday, for how many days. Because here they mark not only the holiday itself, but also the preparation, and there is no way to know about the regulation. If we can be funny, you can set 365 days, if you watch how many national holidays we have and the Advent period, then you can basically record with local regulations and the law that 365 days. They can cover the entire territory of the country, that no one can celebrate now, only public holidays can be those holidays that would be eligible for celebrations by citizens. Secretary of State, let's go back to the Advent period. Because we understand that you're almost afraid of everything, even of yourself, but it may be stronger and more afraid of yourself than anyone else. What in God's name is bothering you in the Advent period? I've asked myself the question of what you're afraid of. What is it you don't want to see at Advent? It took me a while to figure it out, and I'd like to come up with an initiative for you last year. Last year, it was initiated to allow the municipalities to levy the tax that we called the "charged tax." During the winter period, when people in need become more difficult, as the cold season comes in, more and more food distribution in Hungary. More and more people feel that as the holidays are approaching, they need to be helped, and then there was an initiative to ban it in Hungary so that you would not encounter this problem, communicate about it, and some media would not report that there is such a thing in Hungary. Let me give you one example: Blaha Lujza Square, where thousands of people line up for a little food, a small package, and then you came up with the idea of taxing these organizations who are doing this activity. And, thank God, in the face of the great outrage, they failed to achieve that. They put a law like this here at the beginning of November, and I realized what you don't want to see: during the Advent period of the NER system, your communication is no longer available, and as a Christian, you keep saying that you Christian people are not allowed to see on TV, that some channels convey that hundreds of people are lining up for food in rural settlements. Thousands of people stand in line in Budapest, from Blaha Lujza Square to Nyugati Railway Station in connection with the initiative of NGOs or even political parties, or even by some church organizations who still believe that Christianity and love are worth helping people in need. That doesn't fit into your system anymore. What are they doing? They will bring in a law amendment, and then they will be able to present this amendment within the walls of this House in such a way that they can say that this is all for the benefit of the people, this is all for the sake of the people, and this must be done for the sake of the people. Of course, we can say that there are enough reasons to reject as opposition representatives that national holidays themselves have been included, but the Advent period, Mr. Secretary of State? What's bothering you? What? Why don't you explain it to me? In Kossuth Square, we have not found in the law that anyone, even on August 20, would have carried out any action during the clearing in the last 30 years or 28 years. Even during the Advent period, it is not in Kossuth Square, but in this amendment it is not only Kossuth Square. I'm telling you, if you think you can ban everything on 365 days a year now, you're giving me the opportunity to do so with this amendment, and that's unacceptable. Mr. Secretary. Today it was announced that thousands of families were evicted this year, allowed families with children to go out on the street. You're not doing anything to prevent that. They didn't do anything. You are constantly communicating in the year of families and family-friendly governance has become another slogan recently that you are doing everything you can to make it better for families in Hungary. I'm asking you one more time, Mr. Secretary, to stop this. If these laws are being introduced, stop it! Don't talk about Hungarian families! Don't take Christianity and love into your mouth because I think you know that, and we know that this is not the case. And you don't have to go around with big slogans about these laws, everybody knows what's going on. Everyone. And I would ask Mr Secretary of State not to ask us, opposition representatives, in any such amendment to the law, to support these nasty legislative amendments. They shouldn't even be brought into the walls of this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-14-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will add to the speech by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, and I would not like to repeat the important information on the electronic information system, but I would like to respond to the fact that the fundamental aim of this amendment is to celebrate our national holidays and traditions in a manner that is worthy of Christianism. So I think that this is the fundamental goal, there may be diverging opinions, but this was the commitment that launched the amendment. In this connection, I would also like to stress that the data of this electronic information system do not restrict the legislative provisions of the determining bodies, including the right to examine the merits of applications and notifications, and do not exclude anyone from making a claim for the use of public space. The question of assembly was raised. The regulation also states that notifications covered by the right of assembly take precedence over other uses of public space. While the assembly authority is already subject to an obligation to register immediately following receipt of the notification for the holding of a meeting covered by the assembly law, the registration concerning the use of the public area for other purposes can only be made on the basis of a final decision or a final decision. The main purpose of the amendment is to set up a separate regime for the usual venues of celebrations and commemorations on national holidays within the meaning of Article J (1) of the Fundamental Law and on the days declared as national day of mourning or commemoration. Public areas used for these purposes have traditionally developed, and therefore the strengthening of traditions by law is a noble goal. The aim of the proposal is to exclude by law the possibility, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have mentioned, of creating a kind of competition on national holidays, on equally important holidays between public figures, parties and civil society organisations during the seizure of the public areas concerned, in order to avoid inappropriate processes for national holidays and similar festive occasions. Therefore, the proposal exempts the public use of certain specific public areas from the obligation to notify and, by virtue of the law, designates these public areas for national and state holidays and other commemorations. It ensures this by providing that at the relevant time points these areas are not public areas to be used by anyone subject to the general rules. I would like your support for the bill, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2018-11-14-124	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Peter James of the Jobbik faction.
u2018-11-14-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honestly, when I read this really weird presentation, I thought about the story Vuk, unconventionally. That's exactly the part of the story where the crow says to the little Vuk hunter, Mr. Headhunter! Shoot me! What are you waiting for? And the master hunter shoots, but misses. Now it looks like the Fidesz magpies, you've asked the chief hunter of the Orbán government to fire, and the chief hunter will shoot. Chief Hunter Zsolt Semjén shoots with this bill, but he shoots at his own people. He shoots his own people when he simply wants to ban the majority of his government critics from the symbolic public areas of Hungary by referring to national holidays and local government commemorations, because that is what this proposal is about. And the thing is, I'm telling Mr. Headhunter right now that he's gonna miss this shot, too. It's because your hands are shaking because Mr. Headhunter is afraid. He submitted this bill electronically, but he didn't have the courage to come here to represent the people and look us in the eye. Because you're afraid of the people! Of course, I don't know exactly why they're afraid, because you were supposed to be elected two thirds for this country. So if you didn't cheat the election, then you in this country could be strangled by the love of the people, nothing else. But the thing is, you know very well that you know best that you have won this election with extremely nasty and filthy means, and have been ruling with mean and filthy means ever since. So you are, in fact, well-founded, rightly afraid of the people, rightfully afraid of those who are being squandered, who are being spent on hunger. You know, one and a half million of our compatriots are about to leave this country because they don't want to starve to death, and they don't want a hopeless future for their children. They have a right to fear this one and a half million people. They have every right to fear the anger of widows and orphans who lose their loved ones in hospitals because they don't get the proper health care because you steal the money. Four out of ten people could be saved in hospitals, but they can't be saved because there's no quality healthcare. For you, stolen money and stadium are more important than the lives of Hungarian people, so they are rightly afraid of the anger of their relatives. You evict the Hungarian people. You're gonna get rid of people who have already paid their currency loans several times, because in 2015 you made a deal with the banks that you're not gonna stop evictions. Today, 400 thousand of our compatriots are afraid to go under the bridge tomorrow. 400,000 of our compatriots are afraid that from tomorrow they will have nothing to lose, because they have already lost everything, they have taken everything away from them. They have every right to fear the anger of this 400,000 people. And they're right to be afraid of those who take away the cafetheria, the house savings they're chasing with a well tax. They are rightly afraid of those who feel very well on their own skin what your economic policy means, what it means to have inflation at its six-year peak, that the price of petrol in the sky, that the price of vegetables will rise by 50 percent, that the price of bread will increase by 30 percent, and that I could still list it. Yeah, you're right to be afraid. There's someone to be afraid of, and there's something to be afraid of. You all know very well that you will not be strangled here by the love of the people, but by the hatred of the people. The only problem is, they're drawing the wrong conclusion. They do not conclude that we should finally start serving this people, do so for this country, but conclude that if the people have a problem, if the people have a riot, if the people criticize, then let us ban the people. That's what you do. And do you really think that by banning and threatening you, you can avoid the fate that those who destroy a country deserve? Do you really think that if you restrict the right of assembly, you won't be able to meet us and the likes of us on the street? Of course they will. You created the assembly bill, didn't you? As of October 1, the good opposition protestor is invisible, quiet, not loud, not whistling Viktor Orbán, not blocking anyone or anything. That's a good opposition protestor. He looks like he's just waiting for the bus or the train in the East, right? And on October 23rd, we, the good guys, showed that this law is worthless. We were visible, loud, and, if necessary, at the TV station, if necessary, at the Fidesz headquarters, we had to cross the power arrogance, the theft, the lying. The answer has arrived. This bill is your answer to everything. The Fidesz magpies have asked the head hunter, KDNP's smooth skin, to shoot us out of public areas, to shoot anyone who refuses to bow their heads to the regime. Ban us from Andrássy, Kossuth Square or even from Brody Sándor Street, where we held our memorial on October 23rd. Do you remember 2006? In 2006, I did not like the Gyurcsányist response to shut down Kossuth Square from the people. Then you didn't like it. Now they're on the same path, bolshevik tempo. Today we will be banned from Kossuth Square, and tomorrow they will be able to ban us from the territory of Hungary from anywhere, since the possibility of banning is also granted to municipalities. I just want to keep it quiet that I can't do it. The people can't be banned, the people can't be banned. We refuse to hand over a foothold of Hungarian land to the heirs of Rákosi, that is to say to you. We are not the ones who have to leave the public areas of this country, but those who are pushing this country into misery with immeasurable corruption, and these are you. So they will, comrades, it's a matter of time, but they will, even if they use salt to sprinkle the right of assembly. Don't forget, it was not a scheduled event, it just happened. So don't push it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-126	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-14-127	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to help the government work on this important legislative task. First of all, I suggest that we change the title of the whole law from municipal image protection law to state law. As you can see, the image of the settlement in this country is only affected by democracy. We have already seen this when the same law has arranged for you to be the only ones in the elections to obtain posters under fair conditions. This is how the other parties, the opposition parties, were excluded from being able to make a meaningful appearance in the public area, even outside the electoral period. Now this is the second step, right now they want to ban assembly; not always, not all the time, just there and when, by the way, it has the greatest significance and meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I do not want to continue in the way that Mr James has just spoken, but in essence, I do not think very much of this. If you look at the locations on the list, for example, on 23 October, the Bem Square, Brody Sándor Street, or the Museum wharf in earlier years, where opposition parties normally hold events during these periods. His Majesty must be disturbed by the sound. I realize, of course, that you do not wish him to take your head in this case, or pardon me, no, hang him like the Lord Major, in this case. However, it is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that I cannot conclude anything other than that you cannot live with the fact that a significant part of the country does not agree with you on many issues and is prone to voice this publicly, indeed in public, on the street. Because it's public property, that's between, and you're not the public. You are the government and government policy. For example, there were quite a few of the participants and speakers of the events on 23 October who had offended my ears from among the opposition speakers, because there was perhaps even more extreme right-wing and nationalist among them than you, although I am not sure I should add, Prime Minister's reasoning did not come across my taste in every way, not to mention the devastating opinion of negative numbers and the immeasurable ignorance behind it, but I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone has the right to use public space, that is why the public area is. And that's not just for transport, my dear Secretary of State, you're wrong. The public domain has many other functions, and in a democracy, the function of public space is also regulated assembly. [[16.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must add that it proves your legislative wisdom that you have already been adopted in this parliamentary term, not so long ago, another law restricting assembly, but that was not enough either. Now someone has another brilliant idea of how to try to stop someone from having a negative opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear that this bill is quite clearly outside what can be called a rule of law. In democracy, in the rule of law, fundamental rights may be restricted only for the sake of another fundamental right of equal weight. So that you can celebrate in peace and not be disturbed by the people, by the opposition, by the civilians, by the many rumblers, by the non-essential rights, by this is not in the public interest, this is in the best interest of your mental health, which is important to us, but the right of assembly is more important than that. The right of assembly cannot be restricted because of the image of the settlement, nor can the right of assembly be restricted, because in your opinion it is unworthy that the state must compete. The rule of law is a rule of law that also limits the State. It is a rule of law that the state is involved in this matter with the same rules, and indeed the government must ask for the use of public space, just like everyone else. I understand that this is a bad feeling, because you think that the government and the government side are above the others, above the opposition or civil society organisations, but that is not the case in the rule of law, honourable Members. Therefore, there is no reason for this constitutional restriction, neither proportionate nor necessary, this restriction is a purely arbitrary decision. I do not want to talk about the establishment of the register for a longer time, but it is quite obvious that the problem is similar. They need the register because they want to check who even dares to gather and in time to ban everything that you don't like, or that I might be able to talk to the local authorities about it and maybe ban something that they don't know about quickly. I would like to know if the Data Protection Authority has given its opinion on this proposal. Do we know what's going on with this? Because I don't see any reason for this data collection, it doesn't comply with domestic or EU data protection rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I forgot to mention one more beauty, while I now remembered that while the assembly is now being banned by law here in a lot of places, they even give the municipalities a blank cheque so that your enthusiastic mayors, the already mentioned lord majors and majors can exercise this right themselves, even guess what the local ceremony is, this, and that; anything other than the other side of the moon can be said in a local decree or in this law that the assembly is prohibited. I would like to make it quite clear that this bill violates fundamental rights, does not comply with your very low-quality Fundamental Law, and is even less in line with Hungary's international obligations, the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court, the European Convention on Human Rights, and I could still list other international and domestic obligations that are contrary to this. This legislation is restrictive, illegal, unnecessary and otherwise stupid, because I would like to say that you will not be able to forbid European Hungarians from celebrating wherever they want on national holidays with them. You can make such laws, but I'll tell them now that these laws will not be more than a piece of paper for nothing. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-14-128	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-11-14-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, 2006, Gyurcsány government, Autumn speech. Remember? Do you remember, fellow Members of the Fidesz? Because tell me, according to this law, if this had been in force, where would you have been able to hold a general assembly, where would you have been able to protest, where would you have been able to raise your voice because of the decisions, lies, or differences of opinion that have practically set Budapest on fire. I must tell you, Mr. Secretary, that you couldn't have been anywhere. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the problem here is that you are now trying to play a game with this bill as if everything is okay. I'm kind of thinking about the Tokyo Olympics, where they covered the slums with veneer sheets. What's happening is that you want to do it completely artificially, so please, there's nothing to see here, there's no protest here, everyone here agrees with us, everyone in the system of national cooperation is unitedly happy. Really, I think the Kádár system would be ashamed of the pace you're making. Of course, in addition to the fact that decisions concerning the use of public space would also create an electronic information system in this law, the proposal before us intends to restrict the right of assembly in the Fidesz's favourite law for shady amendments, in order to protect the municipal image law. As many of my fellow lead speakers have said, this amendment of the law is seriously and deeply unlawful, unconstitutional, and I think that will come out. I would like to limit the right of assembly that the majority of governments have only re-regulated a few months ago. We may remember that not so long ago, too, the municipal image protection law, bypassing two-thirds provisions, tried to disable Lajos Simicska's advertising equipment. I can't even say that you are straight people, because when you want something, you never communicate it, but you try to wrap these hidden intentions in a municipal law. Speaking of settlements: Do you think protests are destroying the settlement picture in Budapest today? Aren't they bus stops in the trash? Isn't it the public areas in the trash? Isn't it the undelivered waste because of the waste management system? Do you really think that protest is the biggest problem from a municipal perspective? Do you really think that not the facades that have been neglected for many decades are ruining the settlement image, but the demonstration? You gotta be kidding me. The current proposal is a truly extreme unscrupulous proposal. By breaking the closed system of the assembly law, the traditional places of national holidays, mourning days, memorial days and other religious holidays would be excluded from the concept of public space by virtue of the law for the duration of the festive event and the preparation for it. By doing so, it ensures that these sites are exempt from the notification procedure which otherwise governs public areas, including the exercise of the right of assembly. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Of course, limiting the concept of public space is no stranger to you, one of the serious steps of the new assembly law that has been in force for less than a month now is that, for example, in non-state-owned areas, it is not possible to gather even if it is open to public transport. With all due respect, I'd just like to remind the dear majority of the governor to talk to each other. I understand that, as it is now, there are four of you here and two of you from the government, but if you would take the time to talk at a faction meeting, you would certainly remember the case where, for example, producers protested in the parking lot of one of the Tesco stores because the melons were sold at dumped prices by this multinational company, destroying and making producers otherwise impossible. The producers who are our roots. It's yours, it's ours. And I think they're being spit in front of them, among other things. The LMP did not propose an amendment by accident so that, if the collective opinion is expressed in public matters relating to the owner's or user's activities, it could continue to take place in a private area open to public traffic. We will also do the same with regard to this law. The restriction that is written in this law has no place in the Hungarian legal order. [[17.00]] Fidesz, obviously not independent of the events of 2006, abstained from the right of assembly or from the usual legislative toughness for eight years. For example, in 2011-12, when redesigning the public-law system, it did not make any meaningful use of the law in its convenient possession of two thirds. The assembly law could have drawn the longest out of 89 important public law laws. This ends now. This year, the majority of governments are no longer fine-tuned, first in the summer the new assembly law was passed, and now they are virtually trying to make it impossible or impose any form of protest within such a narrow framework that is convenient for you. The drastic change in the new assembly law is that so far it has been possible to prohibit assembly only in a certain place and at a certain time, i.e. the authority could, in fact, impose only time and local conditions in advance, only very narrowly. This new bill can, in effect today, clearly prohibit, by relying on assumptions, any kind of protest, because this amendment also allowed a complete prior prohibition, i.e. independent of the place and time of the announcement. And not only in the narrow circle so far, but also in the potential for future violations of the rights of others. Please, we are on the verge of being forbidden from going out on the street or getting on Tram 2, because I might accidentally step on someone's foot and possibly limit their safety, their health rights in the future. You are quite terrifyingly and unspeakably cynical, honourable Members. And the proposal before us no longer weighs, with a noble simplicity at both the national festival and the day of mourning, it can eliminate or limit the protests which have been announced so far. Knowing the facts and traditions that predestined the city that, yes, on October 23rd, there was an opposition movement almost every year, and often even a pro-government movement, a political gathering, but you no longer want to hear about it. Allow me one final thought. By opening local regulations, you have opened the gate in addition to the numbers, and I would like you to pay attention to the numbers, 23 districts in Budapest, plus the capital, plus the state to occupy full public spaces in space and time, and it does not even have to be excessive to undermine virtually everyone's rights to commemorate any kind of memorial. So 23 districts can be limited in parallel, plus the capital can be limited in parallel, plus the state can limit in parallel. So, ladies and gentlemen, this law, I think, is certainly one of the most outrageous laws of this term, but it is not a short list, believe me. I think, beyond the fact that, of course, the May Other Politics will not support the vote or entry into force of this amendment, but I am sure that we will take all legal steps to show that this amendment is a serious violation of the Hungarian Fundamental Law in force today. It is unconstitutional, and I think it is true that I can put it as my Socialist fellow Member said: it is a violation of your Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-11-14-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mrs Szabó Timea, who will present the position of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-14-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I can add a lot of new things to this, but obviously I would also like to emphasise that what you have done in the last eight years is quite outrageous, but what you are doing this week specifically, in relation to all the legislative proposals submitted, the administrative court, the civil law, this limitation of the assembly hidden behind the protection of settlement image, the circumvention of all state property for churches. I don't know, it seems like this week or maybe this year they're gonna want to finish the job they started eight years ago so that they can steal all the state's assets and run around here for a few more years. They stepped on the puppy road, marching on it, and it's pretty amazing what they don't allow themselves. By the way, with this bill, the Dialogue has a dual feeling. The first part would even be eligible; the first half is about setting up an electronic public area information system. This information is intended for decisions to be taken for public use, not only for public authorities, but also for citizens. Under the proposal, the government is authorised to define the scope and register of bodies eligible for registration in the information system in a regulation. This part of the Dialogue can be accepted as the Dialogue has always supported the 21st century with the development of technology. 100th-century solutions, including digitalization. However, we are very sorry that in the case of the government, digitalisation is only important if it simplifies public administration or if data on people are to be collected. You are much less creative and less supportive of electronic solutions in the field of democracy. For example, they do not allow cross-border voters to vote online, nor do they support popular initiatives collecting online signatures on British samples. The second half of the law is much more worrying, and we believe that it violates the Fundamental Law. What's this about? Article J (1) of the Fundamental Law applies to the assembly and use of public spaces on the occasion of national holidays, mourning days and commemorative days. It's completely incomprehensible. I am not the first speaker to bring this up, why this was hidden in the law on the protection of the image of the settlement, why it was not amended in the assembly law, which is otherwise relevant. The law, disguised as public land regulation and thus seriously violating the right of assembly, removes from the concept of public territory the public areas defined for specific national and religious holidays and mourning days, and exempts preparation for the period of the ceremony from the public area notification procedure for this period. These are the sites seized by the law, so the public authorities can decide to allow their use. The metropolitan sites are listed in this Act and the municipalities are ordered to make a decree. These are places, obviously everyone knows, this is Kossuth Square, which the state would own on the Museum Boulevard on October 23rd, March 15th, but practically in the entire city centre, the right of assembly is impossible on these days. This is a clear way of killing opposition demonstrations, as we say, on 20 August or 23 October. Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciating the description, what is this law really about? 'Cause this has nothing to do with the settlement image. In view of the fact that most of the metropolitan sites tend to serve as a site for simultaneous opposition protests, the bill cannot be considered to be anything other than a recent attempt by the government and Fidesz to undermine the right of assembly. I am talking about another reduction because, in recent years, there has been an increase in legislation which seeks to undermine this fundamental right in some way. You first attacked the freedom of assembly with the seventh amendment of the basic law. The main problem with the amendment on the protection of private dwellings was that it was not clear and therefore it was an opportunity to significantly undermine the right of assembly. If we interpret the legislation in an extreme way, virtually any demonstration that has been declared in a residential area can be banned. Who decides when a violation of family law or the preservation of tranquility will occur? We know that this is not just about Cinege Street, but you can ban a protest here on the Constitution Street on the grounds that the people on the Constitution Street will be disturbed by this protest. [[17.10]] Exactly, just as the law, the law, was not clear in this amendment, so it does not stand up, so we believe that in its request for ex post norm control, unless they change until the law is adopted, then the Constitutional Court will give us the truth on this issue. Moreover, the new assembly law was later introduced and adopted after this law, which allows, among other things, not to allow protests because of the threat of public order. Once again, what public order means is not defined by the assembly law, but it gives some examples that show that almost anything can endanger the normal course of things. For example, it is completely opaque, as in the previous amendment, that the police would not interpret it as a threat to public order even if, let's say, cars could not park in a public area on the designated parking spot, or machinery could not do work in the public area. The same law also provides for a condition concerning the abuse of the order of transport, which is also a rubber rule that can be pulled on by virtually all migration protests in recent years, such as standing up for the Internet or CEU. You will obviously say now that opposition criticisms are not justified, fears are excessive, these laws will not undermine the right of assembly. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, at the visit of one of your favourite dictators, Erdoğan, is exactly what the rubber rules laid down in these laws mean in practice. As the SASZ pointed out, one of two very similar protests was banned by the police, the protest demonstration of the opposition party, while another, the Turkish demonstration of sympathy near Erdoğan, gave the green light. It is not difficult to think and assume that a political decision has indeed been taken here and has nothing to do with legislation or the right of assembly. While this amendment does not necessarily use this rubber rule, which is usually applied by you, it is a very harsh violation of the right to assembly, which I have just said, if the draft were adopted, there would be such a serious limitation of the law that would virtually prevent any opposition to the government in Russia. It is quite clear that this is your intention. Freedom of assembly means that the organizer of a demonstration can decide where he wishes and when to protest. In the absence of this, we cannot talk about the full application of the right of assembly. A demonstration is as legitimate a use of public spaces as transport, business or even festive use. It is a serious limitation that the draft would make it impossible for anyone to express their opposition to the public event in accordance with their right of assembly. It is also against the fundamental law that the municipalities may withdraw the locations of protests by decree. As the SAO has also said, the only way to achieve this amendment is to ensure that public areas of high importance only have the field of public opinion at the time of priority, and that all other opinions would be physically excluded from these areas. The proposal suggests that only the state can commemorate national celebrations in a worthy manner, and that it is not appropriate to organise public events around certain religious holidays in the priority areas of Budapest. Whether a person can protest in an area he chooses, honourable Members, must not depend on state favor. The subject of which you want to mark and when is the fundamental right. For 30 years, everyone has been able to practice it freely. He was able to practice freely even if, let's say, the police banned it in the first instance, but the court was sure that 99 percent of the protesters were right. It cannot be called unworthy if a person exercises his right of assembly, or a possible competition for the use of certain public areas. The expression of views on national holidays is a fundamental right of citizens and not a privilege of the State. You've already tried to make politics your privilege, to say that it's only your right. The opposition representatives have been called, either here in this House or at committee meetings, for professional debates to be held, not for politics; this is not a place of politicalisation; it is a place where professional arguments must be challenged. Well, why don't you explain to me, on the one hand, what kind of professional argument lies behind the attempt to regulate or amend the assembly law in the law on the protection of the image of settlement and to undermine such a fundamental right? This has nothing to do with professional debate. Once again, it's about you going on that road to Putin, which is aimed at the complete concreteization of your unlimited power. From the persecution of civilians to the fines to the other occupations of democratic institutions, which is basically a picture of Russia in Hungary for which we fought together 30 years ago, for which Viktor Orbán was very enthusiastic about standing up in Heroes' Square, and he himself demanded the withdrawal of Soviet troops, and now he wants to create or change our country on that model. It's totally unacceptable, and look into yourselves a little bit about what you're really doing with this country. This is not the country we wanted, but not just the opposition parties or opposition representatives say that we did not want such a country, but I believe that you did not want such a country. Let's say for a minute that if, say, Ferenc Gyurcsány was still the Prime Minister and the Gyurcsány government did this, what would you say? How would you like to hide the laws on assembly in the law on the protection of the image of settlements? How would you like to see the civilian money distributed by a state-funded fake civil society organization? How would you feel about the state fortune being stolen by, say, government buddies? They're obviously staring down their eyes right now, and we know exactly what they'd say. They are shamelessly stealing, cheating, lying, and crossing these laws, which practically create a semi-dictatorship in Hungary. The Dialogue faction will examine the final version of this law and we will take the necessary steps if they do not change these amendments when the law is adopted. We will certainly ask the Constitutional Court for a follow-up standard control, and we are also sure that the Constitutional Court will give us the truth. You once occupied the entire capital on 15 March when we tried to announce an opposition protest, but we couldn't really do anything, because from March 15th through the Free Press road to Kossuth Square, and up to Andrássy Road, everything was booked in advance, making virtually impossible for the opposition to be seen or commemorated in a public area visible to the naked eye. However, I personally turned to the Constitutional Court, and I have some bad news for you, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, the Constitutional Court has given us the truth. Even then, the Constitutional Court did not allow it, and stated that it is impossible to occupy the public domain, it cannot undermine such a fundamental right, it cannot be said what a man thinks is a worthy memorial, which day is worthy of commemoration, and who can exercise the right of worthy commemoration. You do not have the right to do so, and I say that everyone else has the same right as you do, so stop running amok, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the governing parties, and withdraw this law. In the beginning, we do not understand why this law had to change; the Constitutional Court, if you do not do so, we hope that it will do so. Thank you.
u2018-11-14-132	Thank you, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Szabolcs Szabó will be given the floor in a 15-minute time frame. [[17.20]]
u2018-11-14-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to quote you from the motion first. It's gonna be long, but I think it's worth listening to. The periods and locations referred to in paragraph 1 (a) are as follows: (a) 15 March: aa) 00:00 to 24:00: Kossuth Lajos Square, District V [[hereinafter referred to as "Kossuth Lajos Square']] Martyrs' Square, Zoltán Street, District V. [[hereinafter referred to as "Zoltán Street']] Akadémia utca, Báthory utca, Alkotmány utca, Szalay utca, district V. [[hereinafter referred to as "Szalay Street']] Balassi Bálint Street, Kálvin Square, Kecskeméti Street, District V [[hereinafter referred to as "Kecskeméti Street']] Bródy Sándor utca, Museum körút, Múzeum utca, Pollack Mihály tér, Kossuth Lajos utca-Múzeum körút intersection [[hereinafter referred to as "Astoria']] ab) from 00:00 to 14:00:. We are still at the 15th of March, Alkotmány utca, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky út, Károly körút, Astoria, Kossuth Lajos utca, Free Press Road, Erzsébet bridge. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're still at March 15th: (c) 12:00 to 24:00: Chain Bridge, Várkert wharf, Clark Ádám tér, the I. district Hunyadi János út, b ) 20 August from 00:00 to 24:00: Kossuth Lajos Square, Vérttanúk Square, Zoltán Street, Academy Street, Bathory Street, Alkotmány utca, Szalay utca, Balassi Bálint Street, Olimpia Park, id. József Antall wharf, Jane Haining wharf, Belgrade wharf, between Margaret Bridge and Elizabeth Bridge, Buda and Pest upper and lower wharfs, think about the distance between this and here: Széchenyi Chain Bridge, Margaret Bridge, Elizabeth Bridge, Liberty Bridge, Clark Ádám tér, Várkert wharf, Gellért wharf, University quay, Bem wharf, St. Gellért tér, c) October 22, 00:00 to 24.00: Kossuth Lajos Square, Brody Sándor Street, Múzeum Street, Pollack Mihály Square, University of Arts, Bem Square, Vérttanúk Square, Zoltán Street, Akadémia Street, Bathory Street, Alkotmány Street, Szalay Street, Balassi Bálint Street, Falk Miksa Street, Honvéd Street, Olimpia Park, Andrássy Road from Oktogon to Csengery Street, (d) days declared a national day of mourning or a memorial day, and the extraordinary national mourning days ordered from 00:00 to 24:00: Kossuth Lajos Square, e) 4 June, Day of National Inclusion 00:00 to 24:00: Kossuth Lajos Square, Vérttanúk Square, Zoltán Street, Academy Street, Báthory Street, Alkotmány Street, Szalay Street, Balassi Bálint Street, Falk Miksa Street, Honvéd Street, f ) October 6th, Arad Martyrs Memorial Day 00:00 to 24:00: Kossuth Lajos Square, Hold Street, Báthori Street, Zoltán Street, Academy Street, Bathory Street, Alkotmány Street, Szalay Street, Balassi Bálint Street, Falk Miksa Street, Honvéd Street, g) 4 November, the day of remembrance from 00:00 to 24:00: Kossuth Lajos Square, Vérttanúk Square, Szent István Square, District V, h) Advent's first Sunday from 00:00 a.m. to 24:00 a.m. on January 6:00 a.m., I hope I calculated that this is December 2nd this year, so from December 2nd this year until January 6th, this is more than a month of Christmas in Hungary: Kossuth Lajos tér and thus Kossuth Lajos tér for more than a month completely, (i) 16 June, Memorial Day of the Remembrance of Imre Nagy and his Martyrs from 00:00 to 24:00: Heroes' Square. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One more quote, this is the proposal 2. Paragraph (1) (b) of paragraph 1 where it is described how restrictions may be imposed on this seizure, there is also an entry in point (b) that the local government commemorations and celebrations are held by the local government during the periods specified in the municipal decree. I have read this because I do not think that even some of the Members involved in the debate have read this in such a coherent way, and on the other hand, if someone is watching the report, don't give it to me, God, on the Internet, they know what we are arguing about: so the streets I have listed at the times I have listed, plus the municipality can jump at anything else and probably put together an even longer list. As a result, I think we have a right to say that this bill is about the loss of public space. There's no other way to put it. Unfortunately, that is the case. This is a clear restriction on freedom of assembly. The freedom of assembly has already been said here, my fellow Members, but I will say it once again, not only that anyone can gather in public territory at any time and express his opinion, but also that he can say where he wants to do this, with the one condition that other constitutional rights cannot be violated roughly and disproportionately. It is not in the presentation, nor in the text of the proposal, nor in the reasons for it that there is a violation of the right to live in the public areas listed by me and included in the proposal on the dates set out here under the right guaranteed by the assembly law and guaranteed by the Constitution under the appropriate legal conditions. It should be added that both a number of judgments of the Hungarian Constitutional Court's case-law and the case-law of the Strasbourg Court support this interpretation. In English: we have a bill that limits freedom of assembly. I would also like to draw attention to the situation in which you are in opposition, or think about what happened when you were in opposition. Here are some examples of this, and I would like to bring a new one when Fidesz MEPs could experience what it was like to limit their freedom of assembly, quite harshly. Go back to 1988, it was June 16, there was a memorial on the 30th anniversary of the execution of Imre Nagy and his martyrs. You may remember that this memorial has become quite a scandal, specifically taking people in handcuffs. Miklós Tamás Gáspár was able to say about two sentences at the eternal lamp, but the same was the case with Viktor Orbán and Lajos Kósa. As I recall, only 16 people were handcuffed at the eternal candle. I would like to quote from a book by Róza Hodosán in his book Szamizdat Stories, which was published by Noran in 2004. That's how he remembers it when they were already in prison or in jail. The police brought Viktor Orbán in last. He was transported out of a car, and then he was pushed a little up the back of his hand and pushed through the door. By that time, we had had been in the midst of our first excitement, trying to make fun of ourselves and the police. Of course, they didn't answer any of our questions, they said they didn't have the key, their colleague took it. Viktor also tried to obtain a legal explanation, and, as a legally executed man, he asked his questions. All of his speeches gave rise to clarity, such as if he could call his lawyer. The police wouldn't listen, they wouldn't listen until we found out. In this situation, completely legitimate questions seemed absurd. At that time, the police did not even refer to single-party laws. Everyone here was called silent. If the door closed, you didn't know what was going on with you. That's how you live when you limit your freedom. This is what happened to Viktor Orbán, Lajos Kósa, and there were more, I tell you, not just Fidesz people who did so. I would like to quote from the same day a report from the Ministry of the Interior, which was still top secret III/III, on the hostile actions organised on 16 June 1988, on the operational and open measures implemented, and this is what the report says: "A group of people active in the organisation of the counter-revolution will return to political public life after about 30-40 people have gone back several decades. While a few years ago, their activity developed in interviewing each other, recording their memories and resolutions, in the last three to four years they have been more frequently and in increasing numbers participating in the actions of the various opposition groups, appearing at their events, as well as in recent legal social events. Already in October 1986, it was decided to organise a large commemoration of the 30th anniversary of executions, with international support. The most spectacular display of the latter is the memorial initiation today in the highlighted plot of the Per Lachaise cemetery. This is the east cemetery in Paris, I believe, its official name. [[17 .30]] A date of 7 June 1988 was declared on u.n. The Committee of Historical Justice, which no longer requires the completion of the entire historical era beginning in 1945, is no longer just a request. In their call to the Hungarian society, they declare that fulfilling their demands is a prerequisite for any renewal, spiritual and political purification. Thousands of flyers were produced, calling on the public to commemorate, giving the dates and locations of the planned programmes. About 3,500 of these on 15-16 June 1988. It came into our possession. (...).., in English: it was stolen so as not to get to the people. Then again, this is what a Democrat looks like, and that's how a Democrat lives when his rights are restricted. They won't allow it to show that if you want to give your opinion, you won't be allowed to go to a given public area. In addition, the opposition's rights at that time have been undermined even more harshly. That's how you think about it. So when you appreciate how you want to vote for this amendment, remember what has happened to you in the last 30 years, which has been in the opposition movement, politicalized and how you will behave when you are in opposition. Now, I'm not going to say this out of the blue, if you think you're Democrats, obviously you think you're not always going to govern, sooner or later you're going to end up in opposition. It's just a theoretical approach. Now imagine that you will be in opposition, and there is such a law. Then where are you going to say good day? Do you want to celebrate? Where are you going? Pustavacs? 'Cause then, of course, they can stand up and demand how outrageous that is, and if, say, the then governing parties say that they're gonna put in six squares or the whole city? So think very carefully about this, and I would ask the Secretary of State to speak to Gergely Gulyás. If I understood it correctly, he said that he made his own opinion dependent on it, and I think that this will influence the opinion of the entire group on what is being said in the debate. Then please tell him that, if I have understood this correctly, all opposition representatives here have said, roughly unanimously, that they do not agree with this, and that we have all brought this element up in our comments, so that they may think that this will undermine the rights of the opposition at all. Just consider this one, nothing else, this one, and then they'll know what to do with this law amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-14-134	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, Since I don't see two minutes, I don't see a candidate to speak, and I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an applicant, so I will close the general debate and ask the rapporteur if he wishes to present his position at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2018-11-14-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In short, I would just like to respond to what has been said in the debate, given that it is enough to say that there is a strange debate on a legislation whose primary objective is, on the one hand, to have a normal register of public areas and what applications are submitted in public areas and what accepted applications are. Thus, what the legal basis looks like in relation to the different public domain licences and applications. This register is, in my view, an extremely important register, and it must be dealt with, and such a register is necessary for the sake of clear operation, so that everyone is aware of their rights. [[László Varju: We don't need him!]] , including those who wish to use public space, and on the other hand, such an informative register is, of course, necessary for the public authorities. In my view, it is not a controversial fact, either, that our national holidays or different holidays can be celebrated in a worthy manner, and, according to tradition, whether we are talking about local traditions in a local regulation or national traditions, it is appropriate to celebrate the holidays accordingly. That is, if there is a normal order for a state to operate, in the usual order, a Christmas market should be run. I regret that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is not here, because I wanted to quote to him the text of the legislation, because the first Sunday of the advent is from 0:00 to 24:00 on 6 January, at the Christmas of Hungary only the Kossuth Square provision; he spoke about it as if it were a provision covering the country as a whole or Budapest as a whole. That is not the case, that is not what the legislation is about, and that is not the type of provision it has. In the end, most of the comments were essentially the same. I would like to draw attention to one thing because DK's speech was the most surprising in this regard. So it wasn't DK who closed down Kossuth Square in a hermetic way that it used to be [[Laszlo Varju: No!]] Or DK's predecessor, DK Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, who closed Kossuth Square in such a way that it was practically impossible to move there. [[László Varju: It wasn't like that!]] So you couldn't even get in there at all? And then he's talking about the fact that there's some kind of right here, is there some kind of right you're trying to enforce? [[Antal Csárdi: But clearly I liked this! Bence of Turdai: Did you like the method? You guys were hoofing!]] That's their way of thinking. [[Antal Csárdi: And you have taken over this!]] We're talking about a worthy celebration here. I refer here to the various styles of speech by Mr.Péter James, which has succeeded in a very violent temperament between the walls of the Parliament, but the point, my dear fellow Member, is that it is important for all of us to celebrate some holidays in a worthy manner, and I do not know which of our fellow Members has said so, but let us not confuse who is submitting this bill. The bill is submitted by someone on behalf of the government, so when a bill is on the table, it's not someone's proposal in this respect when it's submitted by the government. So, not a member of the government, but a proposal from the government, which I wanted to refer to. All in all, it can be said of this bill that it consists primarily of a public, well-followed registration system and, secondly, a worthy celebration of our national holidays or other celebrations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-136	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the implementation of public civil engineering investments will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/3367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national assets, on a 30-minute time-frame, to the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-14-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's aim of the bill on the implementation of public civil engineering investments is to ensure that public civil engineering investments are implemented in a uniform system, i.e. in whole or in part, from public sources. This bill sets out the necessary instruments and institutional system. It is not only necessary to prepare and implement public civil engineering investments in a new system to develop a new concept of public investment, but also to create a new organisation. An organisation capable of guaranteeing the cost-effective and timely execution of works carried out from central budgetary sources, both aesthetically and functionally, with full respect for public interests. This bill proposes that the government should invest in the construction of a new structure, clearly defining the responsibilities, from a central budgetary source over a specific ceiling. It should be designated as a 100% state-owned company, an investment agency with an independent budgetary resource, contributing to the preparation of investments and carrying out investments. [[17.40]] The investment agency is primarily responsible for carrying out the construction investment from the selection of contractors to the transfer of the investment. However, the construction can only be carried out rationally after a responsible design and engineering activity taking into account controlled technical requirements and market conditions. It is therefore essential to ensure the Agency's participation in the preparation as well. In the case of municipal civil engineering investments using central budget support, it is also a priority to ensure that improvements are made efficiently and ensured by the government through the involvement of the Investment Agency. The Agency's implementation: an organisation in the role of builder, the main tasks of which are to carry out the investment in the implementation, ensure technical inspection tasks for public service providers and construction operators, coordinate the management of contracts and the activities of the participants in the investment. The government's objective is to ensure that the Agency has direct control over the expenditure appropriations to cover the implementation of the projects in the course of government civil engineering investments, to which it fulfils the financial obligations of the investments. The best way to trace investments is to design investment resources in a separate budget heading after the 2019 transitional year from 2020. As these projects typically affect several years, it is necessary that the Agency has the right to commit for years after the year in question by setting the commitment framework. The Agency's multi-annual commitment framework is determined by the government, based on the budget and the capacity of the construction sector. The framework is essentially determined not by the need for resources for individual projects, but by the capacity of the economy and the availability of specialised capacities. Dear Parliament, The provisions of the proposal guarantee a coordinated, cost-effective and timely implementation of government civil engineering investments. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members that T/3367. To discuss the legislative proposal, to discuss the regulatory intention set out in the proposal, and then to support it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-14-138	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who indicated that he wants to live in the House Rule 36. The right to speak as provided for in paragraph 11 of Section 1. I therefore give the floor to Mr President within a 15-minute time frame.
u2018-11-14-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The President of the State Audit Office has relatively rarely exercised his right to comment on the parliamentary debate on legislative proposals. However, now the Parliament is discussing a bill whose adoption and effective implementation may significantly improve the efficiency of public spending in a priority area of public service. I must admit, I was also moved to express the fact that in the submission of the bill, I see a concrete implementation of the State Audit Office's previous comprehensive initiative on public investment. The State Audit Office has carried out numerous audits of large investments. All I have to do is check on metro 4 or the M6 motorway. Almost without exception, our controls have identified serious shortcomings in the preparation of investments, but also in the implementation of them. These experiences, as well as 31/2015. The request contained in the parliamentary decision led the State Audit Office to systematically identify and learn about the international experience of regulation and control of large investments. We have gathered best practices from China to Greece, from the United Kingdom to Canada and Brazil with the involvement of the co-audits. On this basis, the idea has been drawn that the effective implementation of large investments requires regulation that spans investment processes from preparation to utilisation and impose strict transparency and accountability requirements on the developer of the investment. It has also become clear that higher requirements cannot be met by an organisation which, in addition to its other public tasks, only carries out an investment every 5-10 years. Let's just think that universities have been in this category in recent years. This requires special expertise, professional project management and an internal control system capable of managing a wide range of risks. The bill to be discussed now initiates the establishment of such a professional system in an important area of government and municipal investment, in the case of building. Our audit experience shows that hospitals, universities and social institutions are not prepared to make their own investments in construction in a professional and efficient manner. It is therefore appropriate to centralise in this area, to carry out public investment tasks with a professional organisation. However, professionalism is only one of the important requirements. Transparency in the organisation's activities should also be enhanced. The guarantees of this can be read from the bill. I'm going to highlight three of these warranty elements. The first is that the investment agency will be a 100% state-owned public limited company and will therefore be subject to the laws of the transparent operation of public companies. Second, the activity of the investment agency is a public task and consequently is subject to the legal rules on the transparency of public bodies. The third is that the operation of the investment agency will be financed by the central budget and will therefore be classified as an organisation in the government sector, i.e. by virtue of the power of the legislation, an internal control system should be established that is capable of ensuring the validation of ethical values and integrity for all areas of activity. The investment agency is therefore transparent, accountable, in line with integrity requirements, ensured by the bill. However, these requirements cannot be read out of the bill against those organisations which the Investment Agency has set out in Article 6 of the bill. § 6 of the bill, which it uses as a contributor, or which it uses as a contributor pursuant to paragraph 6 of the bill. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Government may designate you to carry out investments in civil engineering instead of an investment agency. In view of the consistency of the legislation to be introduced, it would be appropriate for decision-makers to consider additional requirements to guarantee transparency in respect of these organisations. Dear House, I believe that the bill should also extend the activities of the investment agency to the local government's investments in civil engineering, which receive significant central budget support, as, according to our audit experience, their effectiveness would also be significantly enhanced by the inclusion of a professional organisation in the process of preparation and execution. However, in this case, it is not possible to circumvent the contractual relationship between the municipality concerned and the investment agency. Of course, I do not see any obstacle to the fact that the payment of budgetary support is a condition for the conclusion of a contract itself. With regard to the flexibility of budgetary processes, I consider the rules of the bill on the budgetary management and accounting of investments carried out by the Investment Agency to be very favourable. [[17.50]] The requirement for the provision of a reserve, the regulation of the possibility of a multi-annual commitment giving more than general room for manoeuvre, and the possibility of the intra-annual free transfer of unused appropriations for each investment are all intended to ensure greater consistency between the actual realisation of investments and financial financing. This will avoid, on the one hand, the creation of large amounts of budget residues and, on the other, the need to slow down the implementation of certain investments due to the constraints of budget financing. At the same time, I consider the bill to be risky 11. Paragraph 10 of the Act provides that, in the absence of a transfer option, the Minister responsible for public finances may amend the expenditure appropriations for investments classified in the budget heading for the purposes of fulfilling commitments relating to certain investments on the basis of a proposal from the body managing the chapter. This theoretically means that the entire chapter will be opened from top to bottom, i.e. additional expenditure can be made without providing specific collateral. On the other hand, the requirement for strict budgetary management would determine that, if the provisions of the chapter and the possibilities for redeployment are exhausted, but some investments still require additional expenditure, the government's decision to provide additional funding would allow it to take place within the annual framework of the Finance Act. I would particularly like to respond to the current investment market situation of the Minister of State telling the Expoze that there is, indeed, a tension on an investment market today. Indeed, if the agency and the government are able to act in a careful manner, they can do a macroeconomicly market-regulated position by reason of the size of the State and its role in the entire investment market. So in Hungarian, when there is an excess capacity in the market, it appears with new investments, with well-prepared investments, but when there is an over-demand as well as right now, then it has a way to slow down, slow down its participation in the investment market, thereby slowing down prices, keeping quality requirements better, and maintaining contractual conditions can create a more favourable market environment not only for the state, but also for both market and retail players, than it has developed in recent months. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to highlight one of the empowering provisions of the bill. The one that empowers the government to establish by decree the order of government decision-making for public high-building investments. The creation of such legislation can make a significant contribution to ensuring that the entire process of public high-tech investment is regulated. Based on the experience of this, a regulation that sets out high standards of professional and transparency and requirements for the preparation and conduct of all public investments could also be established in a short time. I am convinced that with the adoption of the bill we are discussing now after the necessary corrections, Parliament will take a great step in this direction if, after the debate of the law, the Members see it that way. With this in mind, I would like to draw attention to this opinion of the SAO, its opinion on the basis of the SAO's audit experience and to the study that you have received on the integrity risks of large investments and on the basis of which I gave this speech, in comparison with my colleagues' experience with the draft law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-14-140	Thank you, President László Domokos. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-14-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With this law, we may have left the routine a little bit, since we have become accustomed to changing, squirming, shaping laws that are usually existing. And this is a brand-new law. It's quite rare for us to discuss a whole new thing. I would therefore like to thank everyone involved in this preparation, and I would particularly like to thank the heads of the State Audit Office and its staff for their preparation. I note that on several occasions I also spoke at a group meeting and on other occasions in order to make insufficient use of existing resources and development resources, and we still have a lot to do here, and we have very large reserves on this issue. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that this bill can help us in this matter. T/3367 on the implementation of public civil engineering investments. Thus, the government intends to manage state-owned civil engineering investments along a new concept. The government has set itself the aim of the bill to ensure that state-owned civil engineering investments in Hungary have a single institutional and asset system background. This requires not only the development of a new concept of public investment, but also the creation of an organisation capable of guaranteeing the implementation of cost-effective works with regard to the resources of the central budget, with both aesthetic and functionally high value. Dear House, The Government therefore proposes that the State should invest in the construction of a new structure above a certain ceiling. The essential element of this is that financial resources are defined only in the light of the costs of carrying out the investment and that a legal entity with a special status is designated for carrying out the stage of execution. It is important to mention, among the essential elements of the bill before you, the concept of building high, which will be defined in the proposal. By the way, this has already been done by technical practice, but it is also important at legal level that we know what the legislation applies to. It is proposed that any construction works aimed at the creation, renovation, extension or conversion of a building whose level of one or more structures, depending on its intended purpose, is established above the orderly terrain level of the coupling and includes the creation, renovation or conversion of structures of specific types of construction which are essential for the proper and safe use of the structure under an orderly terrain level. The bill also splits public investment in building. Government building investments: civil engineering investment on state-owned real estate, funded by the government's central budget headings. The municipal building investment using central budget support is: the investment through the use of the local government property, the central budgetary resource provided by means of a grant relationship. Dear Parliament, The investment agency, which is 100% owned by the State, is a public-service company operating in the form of a public-sector company. [[18.00]] The construction, renovation, conversion, expansion, restoration, modernisation, demolition and other procurement activities related to the investments carried out by the Investment Agency shall be considered as a public service mission and the public works carried out by it shall be considered as a public service development and shall be provided by the central budget. The government's aim is to provide the Agency directly over expenditure appropriations to ensure the implementation chapter of the projects in the course of government civil engineering investments. The Agency's multi-annual commitment framework is determined by the government on the basis of the budget and the capacity of the construction market. The framework is essentially determined not by the need for resources for individual projects, but by the capacity of the economy and the availability of specialised capacities, and by a regulatory environment that gives additional flexibility in the operation of the chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, For the government, it is important to ensure the domestic construction and the corresponding legislative background, which is also reflected in this bill, so I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-14-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Hadházy. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a historical overview in the debate on the bill on the implementation of public civil engineering investments. Let's go back to 2006, when the Gyurcsány government is LIII of 2006. It adopted a law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. This law exempts certain investments, procedural facilitations and other procedures, such as the planned casino investment in Sukoro, from the restrictions. This was in 2006 and then in 2010 the Orbán government would not have abolished, amended, introduced or tightened these legislative proposals, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And we arrived until July 2018, when two new concepts were introduced in the same law, i.e. the 2006 Act, the priority public interest investment and the scope of the outstanding Budapest developments. So you could see from this, and even in this proposal, there will be a body that will carry out these priority investments. And here we are, today's agenda, a new law, an investment agency. I have a problem with this investment agency. There is another agency, which is also the idea of the Orbán government, this is the Hungarian Tourism Agency. We see how he works, we have to look around, just like on the shore of Lake Balaton. If we look at it, it's an agency, then there'll be another agency, the investment agency. It is quite worrying for me, however, that they will also put their hands on the municipalities. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that Article 32 (paragraph 1) (e) of the Fundamental Law states that the local government exercises the rights of the owner of municipal property within the framework of the law in the field of local public affairs. In this bill, if a local government investment is carried out from a central budget, ownership rights will also be exercised by the investment agency. I'm asking you, is that okay? I tried to get the wrong explanation, but I couldn't find it. I trust that the Secretary of State will confirm that this is not the case, so the ownership rights, if such an investment is made, will continue to be exercised by the local government, because if not, this is quite amazing. What I see is what is included in the general explanatory memorandum that the government's goal is to move towards cost-effectiveness of investments and compliance with deadlines. I'm asking you, wasn't that so far? Are we going to admit that it hasn't happened before? Haven't these construction investments been cost-effective so far? You admit what happened here, so you stole the public money. Now there's a waterhead preparing for this: an investment agency. I still can't get to the agenda. Still a little back to the municipalities, the bill says that an implementing regulation will set the threshold above which the investment agency will act. This will bind the hands of the municipalities. We see it now, let's just go to the TOP applications and see what happened there. We submitted the application and waited about a year and a half for the decision, then six months before the contract was signed. Now an investment agency will act, and it will also be very tied up by the body of representatives, and investment will be delayed. What is the guarantee that investments will continue to be carried out? We see, I'm telling you, I'm just starting out with the Hungarian Tourism Agency, and it's just outrageous what it does. Last but not least, I cannot go as an economist in addition to the fact that the bill will enter into force on 1 January next year, and in the same way in the bill, there will be a separate budget legislative chapter for this purpose from 2020, as said by the Secretary of State. I would like to ask you that if this bill enters into force on 1 January 19, what kind of budget coverage will now provide for 2019, because we already know that the 2019 central budget has been adopted. So this is what I would like to know, Mr State Secretary, how much it will cost the Hungarian taxpayers, that there will be another waterhead that will coordinate investments that are so important to the state, the Fidesz government. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Mr Dezső Szabadságító, Member, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-14-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we are discussing a bill where many people looked at each other and said to each other, "What?" What bill? What is this bill about? At the time, when I read it, I was looking at myself pretty silly, so we called for a small meeting with a number of interested citizens and a number of professionals to deal with this topic a little bit, because it is true that it is a brand-new bill, not to modify it. It was difficult to interpret this bill, because at first I noticed that it was a project of construction, but what is building? Longer-term politicians assured me that I wouldn't have any illusions, obviously, which is visible from the ground, that this new organization would take everything under its control, and that we could move on when it became clear that they obviously wanted to put their hands on everything that had any kind of state money in it. Right at the beginning of the bill, it says they're creating a big waterhead called an investment agency. Unlike my fellow Member, we have found that name very appropriate, we have seen agents working in the agency before us, and we have an idea of whose agents they are. [[Defiance.]] So I'm saying that the name is perfect or almost perfect, there's a word missing from it, the national, because then malicious Members like me or a little more creative citizens might even think that this is not an organization serving a national purpose, but someone else's interests. [[18.10]] My proposal, therefore, would be for this to be a national investment agency, so that everyone is aware that this is in the interests of citizens. At least who's as gullible as I am. [[Defiance.]] And I'm sorry for the remark, or you're as naive as the SAO's head was here to comment on it. I have lived 62 years, I have worked through several systems in administrative and other areas, and I have found that even in the Kádár system there has not been such centralisation in investment. Large amounts of public investment were spent by councils, institutions, ministries and organisations, and they were able to carry out these investments. Now someone finds out that today's organization, the municipalities, is inadequate. It's just been said that we need very competent people here. What happened to the people who managed to manage these investments for hundreds of years? I don't really feel the reality of what I've been told about why this agency is needed. But I remember a time when I was very little at the time, six months old, but the people we talked to about it remember the times before Kádár. They said yes, there was such a thing. They compare this to what was at that time. When I read the proposal, it was already very suspicious to me that it would obviously be said when explaining the proposal, how much cheaper it will be and how much more organised it will be, and I am not disappointed. Indeed, the justification states that investments will be cost-effective and implemented by the deadline. Well, cheaper and more efficient organisation would be even welcome if it were in reality. But reality is different. In reality, your systems are an unprecedented waste and poor performance. You almost don't have any investment on the deadline. And the regular overshoot or increase of costs, believe me, is becoming a laughing stock. I'd laugh, too, but I'm kind of in the mood to cry. And despite all of this, they justify making it cheaper and more organized, while their daily practice proves exactly the opposite. None of their investments will be made within the deadline. Here, I think, by morning, we could give examples of how and to what extent investment budgets have deviated from the initial allocation. Just a few of these recent examples: after more than a year of operation, the kukaholding is still inoperative. We've talked about this enough here, and I wouldn't go into that right now, so I don't have 15 minutes. Everyone knows a lot about kukaholding, and we can be absolutely sure that it is not cheaper, it is not more efficient and it is not more organized, and this system was organized by you. I think, by the way, that quite a few of the leaders of the dumpster have been hiccups, and obviously they have a lot to say about them and their ancestors, especially those whose trash can has been standing in front of his door for weeks. The other one is the failed Budapest public procurement company. The whole operation, but the real classic, in my opinion, is the case of a medical horse, this is the national mobile payment system. It's national here, so we know it's for our own good, your nation. Here there is a system lying to the national that is 25 times more expensive than the previous system. It was also a new system, I'm sure they promised it would be more organized and cheaper. [[Sándor Hadházy intervenes.]] Then maybe I'm the one who's getting it wrong, but unfortunately, I'm not, because I'm getting it exactly right. Moreover, the Court of Justice of the Union has found that the government has disproportionately and unnecessarily restricted the freedom to provide services, and we have said the same here in Parliament when it comes to introducing this system. And now it's decided by the court. By the way, I think that this proposal could easily be the case later. Let us see what this unprecedented proposal is about, after all. Why did you need it? The participants in this discussion have made it clear that if I had not been aware of the following: EU funds are expected to narrow down in the coming period, largely due to government corruption and the operation of the Mafia state. These fewer options will obviously result in less revenue for the oligarchs close to the government and less corruption money. Well, this proposal is about controlling public-money orders by hand, channeling them to the loyal oligarchs as efficiently as possible. It can already be predicted, and by the way, I would be willing to place a very large bet here with anyone, even a million, that the winners of the new system would be different companies of Garancsi and the Butcher. I don't know if anyone's gonna pay for the bet with me. I'm saying it's them. I don't see anyone contradicting that. But what will be the consequence of this? Because my fellow Members in Fidesz are probably going to vote for this without even thinking about it. I think that there will be overpriced, poor and constantly increasing investments. If you do not agree with this, think of the project in the City Park, which has succeeded without seriously starting, from 50 billion to 250 billion forints without anything more serious happening. And let's think about this: if your so-called favorite investments, the construction of stadiums, go back years, then what about those investments that aren't that close to your heart? However, for communities, municipalities, cities, settlements, for whom an investment will be important, but because of this new rule, they will not be able to feel it, and they will be uncertain whether it will actually happen when it is necessary, they will take away the opportunity from the people, the communities, for themselves to supervise the investments they wish for themselves. We therefore find this law unacceptable, and we believe that, like other state monopolies, we will continue to hear about inability to operate, opaque and irregular farming, money-shopping, over-pricing, removal of construction costs and deadlines and a series of corruption-suspecting cases. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2018-11-14-146	Thank you, Congressman Dezső Believing, notary. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-14-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I seem to be in a position today to continue my speech in the mind that has just begun by the Commissioner for Believer, there are several reasons for this, but the experiences that have accumulated over the past decade and decades are sure to say to me that everything that Congressman Hadházy has said can be agreed with his first sentence and not with all the others. This is indeed a new law that has been brought before us, and in a sense it can make your presentation more comfortable, and on the other hand it is more difficult to apply it, while, by the way, to Members or to those who criticise it, to form an opinion, it gives us the opportunity to make this greenfield investment that you have put forward here in the form of a law, Mr Secretary of State, so let us say that it can be taken to pieces. But the question is, is it worth it? Since we fundamentally disagree; it is a completely different world view that we are thinking about in terms of construction projects in this respect, and therefore, in detail, I think that this law is not worth discussing. By submitting this law, you have made it clear and clear that you believe only in what you can do with the power of the state. [[18.20]] By the way, the fact that there have ever been local governments in this country, which have done a lot of good things, but they must have made a mistake, but by the way, the power of the local community, feeling the performance and the result they have done in this country, you are about to take it away. I even believe that they mean that, and they believe that they're doing good. But you're not doing good. There's no need for that benefit. No one in this country needs it. I'll give you another example in the other context. That's where they built their swimming pool. It started with HUF 45 billion, they stopped communicating at 190. I don't know where they're going with him right now. Every now and then, a sum pops up again and again. Dear Secretary of State, do you have the nerve to say that you are able to do anything cost-effectively, by deadline? Well, God bless you, this has nothing to do with the reality that happens. And what do you think of that football field, built on the surface of Érden, which, because it was brought there at the title of 3.5 billion forints, is built there, and then people marvel at the world, that while we are on dusty roads, there is no channel for it, and they come to us with this! And then you create, as the President of the State Audit Office has said here, a fund essentially opened from above, pouring in the money, spending it uncounted and going forward in this story. Well, what other conclusion could be drawn from this than that this is the funding place for friends? Through this, with your cooperation, technical inspection tasks are being controlled or tried to control those who will be entrusted with the implementation, because the recommendation in the text that your agency will make in this respect is, let us say, a very high view and should be seen as a clear instruction. You give your name to this centralization, and there is a huge difference between what you think of Hungary's capacity, its possibilities, and its thinking. We really think quite differently, and I certainly would not have taken such an initiative. In addition to what I have just said in addition to the omnipotence of the state, I can safely add that this will be a tool for the system of the Mafia state, the CEO, the supervisory board and the board of directors, because it operates as a public limited liability company, and then they will be the ones who work in it. I have not yet said that while they are talking about investments in the construction, in excess of a certain ceiling, they are going quietly to agree that everything you want to do as a public investment will be swept under here, and will be done on this basis. I don't think they'd think about how to do this any other way. I don't trust that anymore. But in order to record that there is another Hungary, there is where the municipalities have a democratic role, where they do not take away the wealth, they do not take away the driver's license, but help and support them. Honestly, it's not hard to eviscerate a local government, you just have to take the money away from it. Meg's been taken out of power. That's what you did. And now they think, as a next step, that you are the only ones who can solve the problems. Well, that's not true at all. What is needed, you know, is what you sometimes say: subsidiarity. Decisions should be made where most information is available. Take a look at their operation. In or in the remnant of their KLIK, the Minister or the Secretary of State can make the best decision about how much chalk you need in school. Well, the result was, Újpesten had to nail that window at 35 degrees in school in May so that it wouldn't fall on the kids, because otherwise, someone couldn't fix it because they didn't get the permission. You want to build this system or you will, I'm sorry, because it's not about people's need for this service. No, honourable Members, this is what you need to do in order to make the resources you want to spend under limited or restricted conditions, not within the limits of it, because, as you can see, it is an open source from above, as much money is needed, and then we make as much as we need, and then we will make EUR 190 billion out of 45 billion, which will end this way. On this basis, of course, the following statement comes that the possibilities of integrating the local community into social, municipal and regional cohesion are practically excluded from participation. They're taking their buddies to build, concrete, but how they're living it... However, I think it can come back from the memory of Mr. Secretary of State, how necessary it is that the buildings that will be with us for up to a hundred years, how important it is for the local community to feel and to know that it is theirs. I see a much greater opportunity in the fact that the kukaholding has been mentioned here, right now in one of these areas, where it was operational by collaborating settlements, it has been beaten up, and now their leaders are being chased or abandoned. Instead, you come with your top-down solution rather than let or rather support normal operation, help local governments and strengthen the possibility of local government. Overall, it is therefore quite clear that, in any area of life, it is here that you believe only in the omnipotence of the state. We're about to include the National Planning Office, one more step, and then you'll be presenting KGST to us here. I think that this law is not fit to support it, so you would do the best to withdraw it and create a real opportunity for people in a different way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-14-148	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-11-14-149	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As I read this bill, one eye cried and the other laughed. It was indeed good news at first that the government seemed to commit itself to the coordinated implementation of state-owned civil engineering investments, and to this end it set out a single system for the implementation of public civil engineering investments. The bill sets out the instrument and institutional system required for this purpose. Believe me, I've seen some investments in the last year, and for the first time, it was a sympathetic thought. But let us face reality, fellow Members. On the one hand, we know precisely, regardless of Mr Domokos' optimism, that this law is worth exactly what it can be implemented, so it is worth, in my view, what the public procurement law is worth in order to eradicate corruption. It is well known that this will not hinder a multitude of otherwise suspected corruption transactions and decisions, but will support it, and that is the biggest problem. [[18.30]] However, the first warning was caution, and it was right at the beginning of the proposal. Article 2 §: the scope of this Act covers state-owned construction investments, not including the privileged range of civil engineering investments set out in the Government's decree for the implementation of this Act. Dear House, So now it's number two. In Section 5 of the bill, there was no need for long-term bugging, opening the loophole. But if I'm being honest, they're opening up a wide gate in order for the government to make exceptions according to previous practice in order to ensure which investments do not have to comply with this law. I think it is this paragraph that clearly disproves the optimism of President László Domokos of the State Court, which is completely unfounded. It is like when the government takes public investment into its own hands, putting everyone else aside, not even believing in its own system, or does not want consistently transparent, responsible investments to take place. So now it's up to the 2nd. In paragraph 3, the Government may at any time decide on exceptions in the Government Decree. Please, what is this if it's not a mockery of themselves? This bill mocks the government, please respectfully. I would be very happy if you specifically mentioned this item 2. I think that the dead dog is buried here. What has long been enveloped and perhaps less good news is that the government is very ambitious to carry out the investments it favours. It is no question to whom the planned investment, the totality of these investments, is ultimately useful. We know very well that the Fidesz Gremium, the NER, must be the winners. This bill is perfectly capable of embedding this environment, embedding NER experts, investors and relatives we all know. I think that's what this law is all about. Home independent fact-finding research and the European Union's OLAF investigations are full of the findings, honourable Members, about the pulverizing announcements of certain government projects. For example, the case of the high tide bath, mentioned by one of my fellow lead speakers. Please respectfully, do you really think that such a law will solve the problem of not being 150 billion in an investment originally designed for a $50 billion? And I'm going to ignore the exact figures, because there have really been so many and so many changes in the amount that I, as a metropolitan representative, have tried to follow the changes in these numbers, I can't even tell them forints or pennies myself. [[To Sándor Hadházy:]] But, you know, my honourable fellow Member, there is probably no man in this country who would come here and, without looking into it, can tell us what the real numbers are. The water world has wonderfully shown that the investments that you are now trying to make up for are already inadequate and will not comply with this law. In addition, if the situation becomes uncomfortable, the soil becomes hot, please respectfully, then 2. Paragraph 1 allows, as an exception, a decree of government to remove it from the scope of the law. But this was also the case with the Alfréd Hajós swimming pool, where it was necessary to replace the entire air filter equipment of the facility, which was renovated from nearly HUF 3 billion. They forgot. I'm glad you didn't forget the pools. Really, I can only praise the investor that the pools didn't miss the Alfréd Boat swimming pool. I accept that we were in a hurry, that it was urgent, and that the air filter system wasn't there. There are such things, honourable Members. So, from this point of view, it's time to really clean up, and I always want to believe that there's a real intention. But let's face it, and I will return many more times during my speech to the second floor. §2 because I want to believe in vain, even though I am benevolent, with a constructive attitude, in accordance with Article 2. §, like when it's written in a corner of the TV screen that for people over 18 years of age, there's an alarm flashing here, so please respectfully, it's okay, because there's gonna be exceptions. It would indeed be good for the government to seek transparency in advance with intelligent investments and greater cost-effectiveness, but I say that the risk of this, you understand, unfortunately, does not exist. But from the law, neither in the lines nor in the lines behind it, this is not the intention to dominate it, but rather the practical implementation of the conflict over the rules. That's what 5 is all about. § 3 we are still not deeply involved in the draft law, that the investment agency may request information from any authority, public administration, public utility, public utility and energy service company, from the preparation of the investment, from other state-owned companies, from any organisation involved in the implementation of the state-owned construction project concerned, and may propose to the body concerned to take action. With all due respect, you guys are brilliant. We have been able to write down in a law that has worked for a long time, that, for example, an environmental authority can be called down, that Klárika, I have spoken to the Minister, you know how to make a decision. You know what I mean? And with all due respect, it's written down in a law. [[Sándor Hadházy: That's not what it says.]] I'm just saying, because I know that my fellow Member Hadházy is upset, and I understand you. You know, for example, Albertirsa-Kecskemét's 400-kilot high-voltage line trail, its implementation is also a priority investment in the national economy, and this has happened. I was down at the trial between the people involved and the government office where the plaintiffs were involved. And when the judge looked at the lawyer, who represented the government office, the lawyer's office was accidentally called the Trocsányi and Partners' Law Office, I might add, and she looked at the defendant in fear, and then, of course, I don't have to explain much, and I don't really have to tell you in detail how the court decision ended. Yes, please, and it's written here in the bill. At a time when consultation with local governments and the population is mostly not in the form of a stormy protest, and in view of the outcome, often through force or vulnerability, through the use of their lack of resources, there is a particular byte to the part of the draft that the Agency will propose to the body concerned to take action. Yes, with all due respect, what I have just said is that there is an even more vulnerable group of those involved who have already been involved, but there is only now a legal pass that there is no doubt that the office can be called off. But there is an even more evoked, almost evolutionary curve in this process. The introduction of an institution for investments that are of national importance, which, for example, did not have any meaningful influence on the fate and development of the City Park outside the government. No social, real social coordination has taken place in connection with the destruction of the City Park, no arguments have been heard. Someone dreamed a big dream there. One of my fellow Members told me where it started, and I don't remember that, and now it's at 250 billion. By the way, if you go to Városliget, which is the largest green area in Budapest, the lungs of Budapest, nothing has been built there yet. Cords, limitations, but nothing's been built yet. There's been a breakdown, but no construction yet. But the planned costs are now at 250 billion. [[18.40]] We can continue with one of the top laws of this summer, which wore an interesting label: Act 2018 on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration, and amending certain developments, and amending certain laws in the context of Commission Decision SA 50768 on Hungary's film support programme. Well, this law factory has already fixed a lot of things for some key developments in Budapest, i.e. building on government impulses, breaking down, expropriating municipal plans, environmental and other resources can be thrown away. I would just like to say that, in the same way in this cycle, even though it has not been long since this cycle, there has been a decision, for example, for the Castle Quarter, let us say, about its total vulnerability, but that is what I will talk about. The Budapest student city-South city gate planned in Csepel could also have been given the title that, for the so-called development programme for the preparation of an Olympics project, flood protection criteria should not be taken into account when issuing the building permit to be built on real estate, which I don't know, is a flood risky area for a thousand and fifty years, and the issue of the building permit cannot be denied for reasons related to flood protection, i.e. floods and waterfalls will be adapted to government dreams. With all due respect, the two-thirds of us, the opposition representatives, we thought it was impossible, the two-thirds of us now can influence the weather, or they are not interested in the safety of the people. So, that's all, just not law-abiding, rational behavior. But the same also appears in the instructions of the government for the Buda Palace District, the same law 15. §: the government ensures the enforcement of the uniform municipal and architectural requirements, for which the government may lay down the specific municipal and construction requirements, as well as the specific installation and heritage protection rules. I would like to point out that this is my constituency, with the exception of the I. district, which is why I am so emotionally affected by the authority of the local government everywhere, except in the Buda Castle. As regards the territory of the Buda Palace Quarter, the Government sets out in a regulation the rules of use of public areas, the applicable rules of public use, the specific provisions on traffic regulation, public access charges and the rules of control. With respect, Mr House, ladies and gentlemen, this is what happens when the government starts a high investment, and I think that, in addition to this historical overview, I do not have to explain much of the reason why, according to the LMP, this is completely unacceptable and for which we will not support it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Allow me one more half sentence, Mr President, regarding the parallel between the investment agency and the Tourist Agency, which has already been addressed by my better fellow Member. I very much hope that the investment agency will not be known as the Tourism Agency, that every month practically the entire workforce is replaced one at a time. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-150	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai has indicated that he does not wish to make use of the speaker's speech. [[For signal:]] But if you do, I'll give you the floor now. So we now have Congressman Bence Tordai, lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-11-14-151	Thank you, Mr President, for your flexibility. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Citizens, When I asked Viktor Orbán the question of two trillion forints, many people listened to me calling him party president and not Prime Minister, and perhaps it was embezzlement. I understand, by the way, that being president of the Fidesz is very embarrassing, so if you accuse me of that, I'd be outraged, too. But here we were talking about the HUF 2 trillion, or HUF 2000 billion, that will give us less money from the EU for development in the 2020-27 cycle than in the previous seven-year budget period, we will miss Hungary very much. I asked the President of Fidesz whether he would take responsibility for the fact that so much less EU funding is coming to Hungary. Of course, he didn't take responsibility, he doesn't have a habit, but now we see that there is a reaction from the party side of the government to the narrowing of funds, that they're going to shut down the money tap a little bit, and when a market narrows down, competition starts to get sharper and more killing there. Only this competition in Hungary is not a real competition for the market, but competition for the favor of political decision-makers, competition between fidesz oligarchs, where there are high-level players who have access to Viktor Orbán, Garancsi, Mészáros, Tiborcz and others, and there are small-scale oligarchs of local interest, who are snitching around municipal procurements, local government-supervised tenders, and, where appropriate, in the area of construction projects, they gain amazing extra profit. We know from the reports of various corruption research companies that 25-30 percent on average in Hungary is overpriced, so that such a share of the Hungarian and EU taxpayers' money is stolen in the case of public and municipal investments supported by such EU funds. So this market will radically transform after 2020, and it seems that the answer, as always in the Orbán system, is centralisation. The narrower the market, the more control they want to exercise, so that the crumbs that fall may not go to the wrong place, so that independent companies may not be able to benefit from these orders, or if so, only as the many subcontractors, so that the big profits have already been skimmed by the Oligarchs near Fidesz. Let's see how well the centralizations have worked so far. My fellow Members have mentioned a lot of examples, so I would really just go through it on a list. The education has been centralized, the KLIK system has failed, the quality of Hungarian public education continues to fall, and even if they try to dance back, it doesn't really work, so here we go down the slippery slope. Or what is relative success is a political success, it is the history of state communication spending centralised by the Rogan propagandaistery. They are obviously happy here to blackmail all the media by not bringing state money to you, and after the state is the largest advertiser in Hungary, and even the state companies are brought here, and not only their market spending, their advertising spending, but also what was an issue in the previous bill of law, their sponsorship spending is also part of this procedure, so only CÖF is entitled to support such a civil society organisation, but Antal Rogán can decide on an annual level of HUF 12 billion or approve where he is going. So, in a political sense, this must be a success story for you. The fact that the Hungarian civil sector and the Hungarian independent media were killed with this, I would say that it was an unpleasant circumstance, but no, it was the Fidesz government's intention to do the same. So they hit more birds with one stone. Here's a story, at least from your point of view. Here's the dumpling, and I don't really want to foam the story, just a personal example, our selective trash cans have been standing in front of the house for five days waiting for someone to take them. No one is taking it, and we are not alone, hundreds of thousands and millions of households in this country find that this wonderful Fidesz centralization action has failed. Although politically it can be interpreted as a success again, as well as Lám-lám, György Gémesi, and the Green Bridge operated by some independent local government associations have been so well destroyed and can be handed over to something loyal to the system. Or there is Paks II, which is centralism in itself, although the most amazing example of centralisation in energy policy. That's not a success story either. So if this law says that the centrally supervised investments here will go so well, let's see that Paks II was scheduled for the original delivery date for 2026, in a few years we're at 2032, and it's still a long way from over. Lucky for us, let's add, so the later it is built, the better it is for us, and it is best for Hungary not to recover. The Dialogue is working pretty hard on this, but fortunately, the Russians are working hard enough to build a nuclear power plant that doesn't have plans, and therefore neither Finland nor Hungary can start construction. So much for the professional investment control that the Fidesz Center can implement here. [[18.50]] But let's look at the large investments, because there will be a threshold above which these investments will be taken over, let's look at the biggest iconic investments, how they have evolved in terms of their costs, how much they have increased compared to the price originally announced. The water vb increased 4.6 times, five times the Puskás Stadium, the Várkert Bazár stopped at double the price, the reconstruction of the Esztergom railway was six times as expensive as it was planned, and the destruction of the City Park will cost eight times as much money from our tax forints as they first announced. So this unprecedented efficiency, which is referred to in the case of centrally supervised large investments, is at least questionable. It's really one thing that gives me a little bit of hope. The hope is that the system seems to feel that there's a problem, and they're already leaning down for the smallest crumbs. It has really begun, if not to survive, but the struggle to maintain the great extra profit. In this struggle, I'm sure the soldiers of the end will bleed to death, and the little oligarchs of the local Fidesz passers-by will bleed to death. So if we consider this to be a confession to the weakening of the system, the weakening of financial resources, and a rather panic-like reaction to it, we can say that in the long term, at least, this is a hopeful bill. Although it will cause a lot of damage, if it contributes to it, at least as an indicator, as a predictor of the collapse of the Fidesz regime, then we can actually welcome it. Of course, the Dialogue will not vote for this infinitely damaging bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-14-152	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are no two-minute contributions, then there will be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-14-153	Mr President, Dear House, It is infinitely disappointing, at the end of the third day, to deal in substance with one after another fidesz violent proposals, to try to take seriously what they are trying to hide in the robe of professionalism. I deeply sympathize with Mr. State Secretary, because I respect his professional skills. I think the second time this week you've been put in such an unworthy position that you need to protect the indefensible. Once in the hour of immediate questions or perhaps interpellations, but obviously this is an opinion, and allow me to say so; but now they are clearly trying to put in a professional robe a proposal that simply reminiscent of a different era, of an era that has personally offended my family. I do not want communism anymore, nor do I wish to discuss proposals with Bolshevik attitude in depth. As an economist, I find the obscene distortion of competition that Fidesz-KDNP now deals with in Hungary not in the first industry, and as a patriot Hungarian to whom protectionist economic policy is absolutely close, I also find it unacceptable to say why what is happening here. Because a Hungarian person managing a typical Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprise is this package, this pacsameta even further disqualifies, pushes, pushes you to the edge of the ditch, and disqualifies you from the circle where you could have any access to major investments for either supplier or contractor's work. So we are talking specifically about an anti-Hungarian proposal that acts against Hungarian people managing micro-, small, medium-sized enterprises working in typical Hungarian living situations. The opinion of experts and experts is not a coincidence at all, according to which, with this transformation, companies with a larger Hungarian background can be put in a more favourable position than ever before. I'm glad he's not foreign or multinational, by the way. In this regard, there is certainly a consensus between us. But that a very narrow circle of oligarchs can acquire all kinds of positions in Hungary is not only counterproductive now. None of you really think it's gonna stay that way. You can't seriously think that by 2030, until 2040, there will always be a Fidesz-KDNP government, and you can get away with this madness without consequences! It's quite unthinkable! They act like there's no future. They act as if this whole thing that's going on right now doesn't end once, and everything in the world happens in a cyclical way, and it still works. The same is true for political life. I do not mention that I can speak in the Hungarian Parliament in my eternal life, but I take it as an honor every day, and then we will see how long this wonderful trip lasts. But going back to the proposal, the fact that the Government of Hungary is trying to take over virtually all functions from design to quality control, this has not only led to a distortion of competition, in most cases and also in the majority of cases on the international market, in almost all cases, to a rise in prices. I don't want to mention the garbage collection again, we're at a relatively late hour compared to the start of the debate day and the whole week, but what you really can't see is that they just won't let the NER roll on the outside of the NER. If we look at, say, the big projects planned until 2020-2026, which lie before me, we see not only the Liget Budapest, but also the new National Gallery, the reconstruction of the building of the City Park Theatre and the old Transport Museum, the building of the Ministry of Finance's old-new building, the development of Hungexpo and even a 20,000-seat arena as athletes, I have reservations about this arena, the new athletic stadium at the Kvassay Zsip, and we could continue to take the line with the investment of the southern city gate and so on. I can see perfectly that they want to narrow it down, and we can also see what happens as the next step in starting or developing dictatorships, that the oligarchs within the circle will start killing each other for the bites. So history repeats itself. You can't get yourself out of this either, but this shouldn't go this way. Your government has the authority to bring forward proposals for the benefit of the nation. In order to enrich this debate with concrete questions, there is a question of how much resources they intend to allocate for this purpose, i.e. to set up their so-called agency. It is a little comforting to me that the investments in civil engineering have been left out of this proposal for the time being, although there will obviously be or might be a pair of them, so that a similar methodology is likely to go through metro, underground garage, tunnel and other investments. Secretary of State, let us also have a professional question at the end: who will oversee this very strong investment centre? Because if we say that you, then you have my professional confidence, but you are a political part of a political family that can no longer gain that trust, so the question arises of who will exercise supervisory rights and how much we can trust that this supervision will be real, strong and powerful. We also need to see that the location of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises needs to be found, so I would like to point out to you the specific question of how to tell you how a typical Hungarian small enterprise in a life situation can get to a more valuable place within the supply chain. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-14-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz.
u2018-11-14-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches concerned a great many issues, in fact the whole verticicity of politics. But the thought of you always thinking of corruption struck me. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and Dialogue. Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's hard to think otherwise!]] Maybe it's some kind of illness. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shouldn't steal!]] Or something that's very deeply rooted. Well, in fact, the main purpose of the legislation has already been mentioned. If we look back over the past period, it can be concluded that in the first years after the change of regime, investment resources were almost zero. One or two of these were major investments, perhaps at the time the construction of the M0, the construction of the M7 and major investments of a similar nature. Then, as the economy grew stronger and as EU funds came forward, they created a new opportunity for the Hungarian economy. It has been seen that a lot of organisations that have not had the proper knowledge of using it properly have successfully applied for resources, and it can actually be said that they have not already done the task that is absolutely necessary for correct implementation and later operation in the preparation of investments and improvements. [[19.00]] Investment has such a rule of thumb that the preparation of an investment, let's say, takes five years to complete it for a maximum of two years. There has been an enormous chaos in this area over the past period, and I believe that this issue cannot be debated. There were so many applications that there was a great idea. Wow, let's do this. Whether on a municipal level or on a different level. By the way, businesses are no exception, because there were such ideas. They received the aid, and then they used it and later they had problems accounting for it. I believe that this clearly shows that the use of available and growing resources has not been effective enough not only because of corruption or because of corruption, but also because of very serious technical deficiencies. I think that we can agree on this, because this is an extremely important issue. It is not always necessary to seek corruption everywhere, because there is no corruption in many places. [[Anita Kőrösi: But there is where she is!]] But there's incompetence, there's good intentions, and there's a lack of preparation that puts the entire investment, the whole development on the wrong track. We would like to reduce these opportunities, we cannot rule them out completely, because here, too, the bill concerns investments above a certain limit. A larger number of investments will be below the limit, and I think that the local government world and the entrepreneurial world will use these resources as far as possible with good efficiency. But with a big investment, it's easy to make a big mistake. [[Anita Kőrösi: We know that already!]] You mentioned examples, let's take a look at some of them. For example, remembering the preparation of the World Water Championship: how many months were available? As I said, preparing a project of this type takes years. [[László Varju: We must plan ahead!]] He accepted the Hungarian Parliament, supported it, and then this project started with a technical content, and then this technical content was constantly expanded and expanded and expanded. Local government needs, district needs, other options were attached, and the programme was completed with them. It is worth looking at, and it should be, and it is Parliament's duty to check that those resources are properly used. It's Parliament's job, one of its things. So what I am saying is that it is necessary to set up an organisation that properly prepares these larger investments, conducts the licensing procedure correctly, conducts the procurement procedures properly, carries out the technical control tasks during the implementation of the investment, performs the activation tasks with the closure of the investment or prepares these parts of the work and hands them over to the operator. And here is a question: the preparation of investments. In very many cases, I am talking about a large investment, it was not clear who would operate it at the end, because when preparing the investment not only the plans, but also the expected or designated operator must be involved in the preparation, because he has a technical readiness, he has a knowledge, and if a different technical content is achieved, that synergy will not actually be achieved. This is a complicated task, and we have older colleagues and politicians here who remember that in the anti-world, before 90, there was a water investment company, there was a Power, there was an Utiber, there were state companies specialized in investment, that was exactly what it was supposed to do. They were also included in the budget of the investment in a separate line, the need for funding, and there was no chaos like that in recent years, and this must be said. So it was a big mess and a lot of resources were not used properly. The government's aim is to close this road, and I think that this is extremely important, appreciated and supported. I don't know what word to use. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Anti-People! Szabolcs Szabó: Soros hirer!]] Maybe I'll start the sentence differently. You always think about corruption. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For we know you!]] By the way, there is corruption everywhere, there is corruption in Hungary as well. You have to chase him. But just in such a way that if there's sufficient evidence, pointing here, either personalized or generalized, we'll ask for it. If you have any congressman, any politician or anyone [[Bence of Turda: Let's press charges.]] you have a personal problem, take the necessary steps. [[Bence of Turdai: And then Peter Polt will decide!]] But from this point of view, I think it is not appropriate to make decisions on this subject. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus Christ!]] The other question is that there was a very important thought, and I no longer know which side, perhaps several, has raised the idea that this method will exclude small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary from this whole process. We do not exclude it from this process, I would like to say, because anyone with the capacity to participate in these procurement procedures can continue to participate in the future, and with investments that are small and important locally, yes, it will be the production area of local small and medium-sized enterprises. I think this is another very important thing. It was listed until 2026, perhaps Dániel Z. Carpathian listed the major investments that would be made. Yeah, we'll have to clean up there, too. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Should!]] It is very important that these priority investments are properly channeled into a system that is about to be built, because if this continues, there will be insufficient preparation of programmes, projects, and then there will be various questions, whether in connection with Metro 4 or in other areas. On the issue of shipments of waste, we have several former mayors among us. They may recall that the mayors were never aware of the basic question of how much garbage, how much, because the various service providers treated it as a business secret and refused to betray it, but they could only say in a tendering procedure that we were going to take the waste for icks for forints. It was therefore very important to be clear on this issue, not only in terms of the amount of waste, but also in terms of its origin and composition, because this is the only way to achieve a normal waste management. There may be problems at the beginning, and we knew they did, but they are partly politically motivated problems, partly of an economic nature. But I think that we will get through this and that the objective set will be clearly met: on the one hand, we will be environmentally okay with what goes on, where, how much, and, on the other hand, we know that the costs will not be released, but that we can keep within the appropriate framework what is a set and extremely important target in the context of the reduction of the costs. Thank you for your attention. [[19.10]]
u2018-11-14-156	Thank you very much, Congressman Hadházy. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2018-11-14-157	[[While you're putting your microphone on:]] I didn't think I'd get the floor so fast. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Today we have discussed draft laws in which I think there are links and a chain appears here. For example, concerning architectural works, where, in essence, that content has been nationalised the right to plans that have been completed but have not been implemented so far, and I can see that this is in close connection with this. The other law on public procurement, where the acquisition is 68 million forints and 300 million forints of investment, will also mean that the particular agency we are discussing is likely to receive 68 million for purchase or 300 million for investment; yes, but this will require the agency, which will make this work, so this agency will make those funds, and I am afraid that this will start... Previously, in the form of targeted and addressed support for the many-spoken previous governments, in a predictable way, we knew for several years in advance from the proposals that we could prepare for the investment, and, normatively, could not even be able, on a political basis, to say, what orientation the mayor was. I remember a number of cases where we even received letters of protest that Debrecen received the biggest target and recipient support that Mr. Kósa was the mayor of. But it was normatively awarded. Now, in the bill to be negotiated today, if it is mandatory, for example, to take local governments, it is a very big wall, and I mentioned in the municipalities this 300 million HUF investment that does not require public procurement; it does not require public procurement, but it requires that a contract be concluded with the agency, which will already say the same thing that the public procurement has said so far, who is the designer, who is the contractor, and how this whole matter should be settled. There is a very strong connection between him, I feel, at least in the current state and in the state of the debate. The question arises: when we give to multi-enterprises to help and support 1 billion, 2 billion, 5 billion, 10 billion forints of state money, in which case the multi-company is obliged to make this public money through the agency? Or how's it gonna work? So it will be true of a Hungarian company, a local government, but how will public money work in the multi-company company that receives the support, according to this law? This is also a question, in essence, of how this is going to work, when a person receives 5 billion or 10 billion in non-refundable grants, he uses it for a certain purpose. Doesn't the state want to be there? After all, the municipalities will be given a non-refundable grant, but the President of the SAO has also told them that it is mandatory to conclude a contract, suggesting that the municipality should be obliged to conclude a contract with this agency. It could be said that it is true that what has been promoted in the oral language, and perhaps it could be fully accepted that a hospital investment cannot be expected of hospital management to make a multi-billion-dollar investment, but I think that it has not been the case so far, that is the same with the educational institution, higher education or any form of education, that the KLIK or the Ministry of Culture cannot do this, so I agree, and there are many other institutions who cannot do this, so there must be an institution. But if we look at the contents of this bill a little better, then it's practically a XXI. It's a company planning office. We, the Secretary of State, lived in the time when I worked for a large company, not as big as the Secretary of State, but at a large company, we knew that we were scheduled at the Planning Office to develop this in five years, we were prepared, five years later it came as it was discussed. The Planning Office was like this agency, and it kept his hands on everything, his money was guaranteed, and it went like a charm. That was a system of planning then, that was the world. I think that if this agency is going to stand up now, it will have agencies in Budapest, county, regional, district or whatever it is, a huge human resource must stand behind it, because today such a professional, at least in the local authorities, has a full premium; in the investment department, which has 3-5 people in a larger municipality, those people should be treated like men with male eggs, so that companies do not take them away from them. In an agency like this, you either have to pay a huge salary to agents, or you have to evacuate the local governments and all the companies, because there's gonna be so much money in this agency that you pay, you've got to pay, you've got to pay, you've got to take away the human resources. But I may also be afraid that this will happen, which is to say that these people will go to private companies, and these private companies will be the agency's non-public employee, not a civil servant, but its contractors contracted for a project. Since those outside contractors are more reliable than, under oath, such a complicating agent or investment inspector, or I don't know what they're gonna be? So I'm afraid we're not doing a very good thing on the human policy side, on the sides of acceleration or on the cost side, we're building a huge system. A panda of this was invented at the time of entry into the European Union, which was an EU recommendation, but then the EU stopped receiving EU money by creating a project firm. I was mayor, too. I was just called. We also had to set up a project company, while we also had an investment department, we were a big local government with hundreds of employees, but it couldn't be complicated, but it had to be complicated by the project company. But after all, did you manage to kill him at the project company? We found some 3-4 people, that was the project company, but our own investment department did the whole deal because they knew how to do it. They didn't even have local knowledge of the people who came to the project company. Finally, the municipality has given up this history of project companies, and today the municipality has been able to make the money we have received for the tender, just as it is able to invest municipal tax forints, to use EU funds and to use the funds it has received from the state. In the future, it's over, I think. There is little to agree with, or this reason is little to agree with, such a proposal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] [[19.20]]
u2018-11-14-158	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2018-11-14-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Congressman Hadházy, First of all, allow me to thank you for having a real debate about this law, and it's all thanks to you. He says we're full of good ideas, but there's a problem with preparation. Allow me to allow myself a few thoughts on this matter. Good idea, wet world. Good idea, City Park. Good idea: Budapest Olympics. Good idea: Subway 3 train change. The question is that at what point of the law this guarantees that decisions do not take place, or background agreements, which, for example, result in the use of outdated Russian fittings by Budapesters instead of new fittings, because they have not been renovated; and this is now proven factually that the fittings have not been renovated, but that Metrovagonmas has brought them here, otherwise unused but extremely outdated. What guarantee is there that in an investment and now let me just look at the idea of the Budapest Olympics as an investment, the same investment from its losing position as the Olympic village in the northern tip of the island of Csepel, which is still going on, or that the City Park, so the museum district, will undergo a social consultation that it deserved both from a professional side and from a social side? But you gave the example of a wet World Cup. Let me say that you are mistaken there, my fellow Member, I can imagine that you were not sufficiently prepared. I am a man of good faith, and I was at the Metropolitan Assembly when this process took place, but the magnitude of the difference precludes this from being the case. And the problem is that you're saying this idea in a way that the opposition doesn't see corruption everywhere. Because if we see corruption, we should go to the right authorities. I understand what you're saying, Congressman, but I just want you to see with an open eye what is happening in this country, and I can answer that in one word: Attorney General Péter Polt. And the problem is that I can list examples of corruption cases, the press release went out that the investigation had begun, but it turned out that no investigation had taken place. I can give you an example that the investigation did not take place with OLAF, the anti-fraud authority of the European Union, practically put an elaborate complaint on the table of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. And nothing happened! Right, right, let's just say that Márta Demeter's investigation is already being investigated by the D.A., but the problem is that I think he's being misguided, Mr. Attorney General. There are several problems in this regard, by the way. He said there were major investment departments in the previous system. I hope, and I really hope, that I do not want to bring back the Planning Office that my fellow Member was talking about, and when he spoke about it, Mr. Secretary of State nodded very much. Because I would like to say that that system failed not only for political reasons, but also for economic sustainability. So I think it would be worth reconsidering this initiative. And I'll give you another example for the continuation of the same line of thought: centralization. We know exactly what centralization means. Centralisation takes decision-making to an unjustified distance from implementation. That's what we're seeing at KLIK. One of my keynote speakers said that the window may have had to be nailed in a school in Újpest, because the decision-making, the KLIK centre, was so far from the problem that it actually took an unwarranted period of time, it cost unduly, and let us be honest: there is a very strong risk that, rather than speeding up investments, it may even slow down. And the exclusion of SMEs from this system, I think, again, I feel that this Member is wrong. I understand that good SMEs will have a role to play, as well as high-quality SMEs, but if you've seen SMEs close up and close to operation, you know very well that these extremely good professionals and, by the way, a lot of people have gone abroad and are doing the same activity today that they did at home 8 years ago because they don't have access to the system. And he said that even when this Parliament was preparing for the debate on the Public Procurement Act, it was one of the previous ones, that it would now open the door to SMEs. I can imagine you opening the door to SMEs, of course, by being subcontractors of Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates. So they're gonna do the real work, and those who've taken down the shark are gonna do the real work. And I understand that you don't always have to shout corruption, but what do we do if there is? I would really be the happiest; and, if we look at it, there is indeed a curve, which my fellow Member once again said, these bill proposals that we are discussing today, where we nationalise the plans, where we will set up the investment agency, and which, among other things, may be a continuation of the Tarlós-Orbán pact, which will be announced on Saturday, and then we will know its details. We'd have to come up with some old plans that the capital had made a long time ago for subway 5, but now we're gonna have to recreate it? Believe me, it will be prepared again, by the way, that nationalization of the old plans will be a good starting point for an investor who may never have done such a thing, who will then win public procurement at the right time. We saw this before they thought I was talking in the air. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. The design of a district Roman-coastal dam was entrusted to a company in Szolnok who had never seen such an artifact in his life. And yes, yes, I am saying that I can imagine that my fellow Member was right and that this whole thing is closing a big curve. I note quietly that it is not a last risk either that if virtually all public investments, including municipal investments, are centralized in one hand, it makes it possible to make a decision over the amount of money that there will be virtually a new king in this country other than the Prime Minister, as was the case with ÁPV Zrt. after the change of regime. President-in-Office of the Council. Yes, please, I think that these risks exist, and my problem is not that they exist, but that they are not even experimentally incorporated into this law, so that they cannot occur. A decision mechanism that has already been experienced in relation to an M3 vehicle should not occur or be less likely to occur in the event of corruption or that decisions are not taken light-years away from the problem. I think that my greatest heartache, my fellow Member, has somehow said that Parliament's control function in relation to large investments is one of our major tasks. Can you give a single example of when the Hungarian Parliament was able to fulfil its control function? Could you fill in the investment of Metro 4 if you were able to fill in any post-2010 list, which I think would take away the focus on investments, where, as in the case of Elios, virtually international EU authorities said that there was corruption in this investment? [[19.30]] What control function has the Hungarian Parliament been able to perform in the past 28 years, I would say, but I will say only eight and a half, what control function has the Hungarian Parliament been able to perform? Just one example, please, because I may have missed you, but I don't remember any. So I ask with great respect that, before this bill is decided, you should coordinate with your fellow political groups and either withdraw or include warranty elements that have not only been raised by me, many of my fellow Members, during the speech by the lead speaker, because I think that the implementation of the guarantee elements may be the point where the support of the opposition is decided in direction A or B. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-11-14-160	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is the betterman.
u2018-11-14-161	Mr President, Dear House, When the opposition representatives are told why they see corruption processes everywhere, let me mention an example of my narrower habitat. Not only the Roman-coastal mobile barrier in Óbuda has some very hard facts; I am opposed to this crazy project, and I will do everything in my power to prevent it from being created in this form, but it was in this region that virtually a change ban was imposed, and then this ban was lifted by someone. One housing company has been granted a construction permit, and it is assumed that it is an interest linked to Mr. Garancsi. Then, when this permit was issued, the ban on change was re-established. I believe that such a story from a single district tells everything about public relations in Hungary. I am not saying that every segment of every investment has been filled with corruption, but I say that there are brutal problems with Hungarian public relations. By the way, with social relations, if this goes through society without consequences, so let me be self-critical. But if you could go instead of creating such a communist-type organization, so where is the border, I believe you could, by German model, establish a construction authority that could intervene in events where, let's say, consciously freeze a project on which Hungarian small entrepreneurs have already worked, but have forgotten to pay them. In such a case, this authority could quit and say that I could stop a draft if necessary. My aim is not to stop projects in Hungary, but to reach the state by the force of fear of sanctions, so that Hungarian workers and small entrepreneurs cannot be reduced. We could hold professional debates about a similar organization, but certainly not about what lies in front of us. As long as we are characterised by such conditions, more specifically by your conduct, allow us to draw attention to corruption relations in order. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2018-11-14-162	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member for two minutes.
u2018-11-14-163	Thank you very much. Allow me to make a small remark. Congressman Hadházy mentioned the case of the removal of municipal waste. I'd just like to say that as a simple resident of Csepel, I'd expect you to take my waste if I paid the check that the service provider sent me. Two things don't happen right now: he doesn't send a check, last time I remember, I paid for June, and it's November, so I'd pay, I've got money, I just don't get sent. Why? On the other hand, they won't even take the selective waste in return. There's trash cans on the street. And it's not an initial start-up problem. I may remember it wrong, but it's like the dumpster was created in 2016, right? Two years. It's not an initial problem. There was a functioning system that was successfully destroyed. Data could have been obtained with other regulations, and now there's no data because they're not taking it. Then get some data from the trash-hole, see how much stands on the street, and then we'll give it a round of applause. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-164	Thank you, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Congressman Dezső Believing, MSZP.
u2018-11-14-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many people have expressed their views, and this means that it is slowly crystallizing, at least something in me about this whole story. I see that both Mr Secretary of State and Mr Hadházy, who took up the debate, are also sincere, but they certainly defend this proposal with sincere enthusiasm and raise arguments. [[Dr. János Fónagy: I didn't say anything.]] But the problem is that what you're saying about it, we don't believe it, but the entire opposition doesn't believe it. And the reason for that is that your everyday practice contradicts what you're saying here. In the course of the debate, my fellow Member Hadházy said that this agency would have a very important role to play in the planning process in order to bring together investments that will be sustainable. And you said that as if it were a new discovery. The investments that have been made in recent years are practically not sustainable. Think of the high tide pool. Sustainable? So they're chasing after who should be his keeper, and they can't find him. Debrecen Stadium, Zalaegerszeg Stadium, Szombathely Stadium, but now I'm shutting down, because I could practically tell you infinitely. So what you imagine and imagine as an ideal system may be a well-functioning system, but the practice of the day is that we do not believe that you are capable of doing so. We can support this with many examples of the past year. So the debate is that you think something is very good, and we refuse to believe it, because everyday practice proves the opposite.
u2018-11-14-166	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Bence Tordai will have the floor.
u2018-11-14-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Looks like our Fidesz fellow Member just spilled the potty on you. He's asking why we see corruption everywhere. Because there is corruption everywhere in your country, in Hungary, which you have ruled. But not only do we see this, the opposition, whose job it is to make a knot in the kakaban, but when we look at which country the European Anti-Fraud Office is demanding back money from EU funds, we see that in the case of Hungary this rate is twice the same as in the second most corrupt Slovakia. They're demanding 4 percent of us, 2 percent of them, and an average of about 1 percent. Here the proportions are important, the relative proportions, not that they would steal just that much of these EU funds, but that the Hungarian government is twice as corrupt as the Slovak government, which is twice as corrupt as the average EU government. That's our problem. When you tell us to press charges, if we see a problem, I don't know if you're really reading the pro-government propaganda alone, I doubt that, but if you are, I don't think you can account for it with a good conscience to your constituents, but if you don't, it's infinitely cynical. Just to mention the most recent cases, you may recall that the Attorney General was sitting there when I brought him a clown nose, because in the cases in which they received a complete complaint, in the Kiss Szilárd case, when the investigative journalists, the investigative journalists, did the prosecution's work and failed to bring an indictment; or in relation to the company of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, Tiborcz, Elios, when the European Anti-Fraud Office carried out the work of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office and investigative bodies, it was not possible to get to the indictment. So we're gonna press charges, I'm gonna personally, and now I'm gonna press charges against the Attorney General and his team because he's committing absconding and a misdemeanor. So don't go blaming yourself for not making enough charges. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-168	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Sándor Hadházy will have the floor.
u2018-11-14-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The intention is precisely to ensure that the whole process is transparent and verifiable. Because if this system continues, then you and I can't really get to the point of things anywhere. If this new structure, this investment agency, is established, then obviously, I am sorry, I cannot say who will fall under it, but it is likely that it will certainly fall under a ministry, and that ministry can be heard by committees, and here in Parliament questions and interviews can be put on the matter. [[19.40]] So in this sense, it will be much better, and this is definitely important to me. So the structure should be clear and transparent. On the issue of the Olympics, honourable Member, the fact is that you may know that the Olympic investment consists of two large packages. One package is a package that is necessary to organise competition, such as sports facilities and related additional facilities such as transport facilities, roads, railways, bridges, etc. Obviously, if some of these elements are realized, they can only be welcomed, and not talked about the fact that the Olympics are being smuggled back by the government. Unfortunately, my two-minute window is exhausted. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-170	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi for two minutes.
u2018-11-14-171	Thank you very much. Bence, I'm sorry. I would ask my fellow Member, Bence of Turdai, that there really is a debate that is to be expected of Parliament, and it is not worth beating it up with this style, believe me. I know, and I get that you're right about a lot of things, but trust me. But I am sorry to stay on the subject, I would like to draw the attention of the government party to the agency and the Budapest Közösségi Kft. a parallel between the eyes. What happened? The Budapest Közösségi Kft. almost literally came to the Metropolitan Assembly with a similar argument, and it turned out that this was the centralised public procurement committee. is unfit to do his job. Five or six amendments followed, and the Mayor also said that if he listened to his heart, he would eliminate this very quickly. So believe me, my fellow Member, this is not a protest, there is a very serious barrier to this centralised technique, and I think this initiative goes beyond that. And your answer is, allow me to conclude with a short sentence that we have the opportunity to perform a control function with the tools of questions and interpellation, and I can answer that, you will understand, not for you, but you will understand: Merry Christmas!
u2018-11-14-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, State Secretary in charge of Parliamentary matters relating to national wealth.
u2018-11-14-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the long and useful debate, and I would also like to ask everyone who has a proposal, an improved comment, to present an amending proposal. Allow me to answer professional questions in particular. Mr Z. Kárpát to my fellow Member, Mr Dániel, that the Minister without the wallet responsible for state wealth would exercise supervision because she asked who she would be: in my current knowledge she would be. The second is that public procurement procedures are equally open to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so I believe that this draft law will bring no change to the world. As regards your question in the superior, if you recall, I would like to draw your attention to the question of ownership under Article 9 of the draft. § 2 of the Act, which states that the investment agency must give the state-owned real estate necessary for the realisation of government high-building investments in ownership rights. So the municipal assets remain with the municipality, this law does not touch it, so there will be no change in the exercise of ownership rights there. I have only one comment, Mr Varju, regarding the autonomy of the local government and their reduction, that I also recall that in 2010, the municipalities had a debt of some HUF 1300 billion. I believe that, to some extent, it has also limited their freedom of movement, not just our activity, and it is not ours. My fellow Member, Dezső, is gullible, and someone here has already disdained us, Mr Hajdu and Mr Believer have thrown it on my head that we nodded here to recollections of our time. I really must say that there was a code of investment at the time, which was very strict, and there was a Ministry of Construction and Urban Development, which, by the way, took state investment hard with a very talented leader, Minister Somogyi. This is not nostalgia, but if we are already forced to take on the historical education of posterity here, then this must be said for that story. By the way, I am speaking to Mr Liberty, because he does not understand this legislation, that I am not asking him to adopt this legislation. This doesn't represent your interests, don't accept it, please don't vote for it. [[Defiance.]] Mr Tordai: it is a misunderstanding, and I do not want to mislead the debate, because it is late, but my colleagues here have brought everything here, including the kukaholding, which really needs to be improved on a number of things, but I wish for both of us, dear Mr Tordai, that we will never have more trouble than that they will not take the selective trash from the house for five days. I'll take that. [[Bence of Turda: There will be. Yeah.]] Finally, but not least, my dear colleague Csárdi, I call him that because I myself started as a qualified accountant, corporate designer and statistician. I respect your courage, and if you follow me through, I'd be very happy to go through with you the results, improvements, successes you've made. But where do you take the liberty of desecrating the work of thousands of people from the designer to the creator, just because in this very fancy, beautiful room you are delighted with your own voice, I simply don't understand it humanly! I admire your courage, but I don't understand. In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members once again that, if they have an amending proposal, they should submit it, if they agree with the proposal, they will accept it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-14-174	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on certain laws relating to public asset management and national financial services and on certain provisions concerning municipal property will now follow. The government referral is T/3369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[19.50]]
u2018-11-14-175	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you concerns the regulatory area of a range of fields of competence that fall under the responsibility of the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets and reflects the changes in economic conditions and the responses that can be given to them. One of the main objectives of the bill is the Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. broadening its development banking framework to enable it to perform its tasks related to the provision of domestic development resources more effectively. MFB Zrt. has a narrow opportunity to participate in the provision of EU non-refundable funds, which helps to make better use of EU funds, thereby contributing to the country's economic growth and competitiveness. For the sake of successful development banking, MFB Zrt. provides the possibility to use a wider margin and thus a greater guarantee. for you. All of this promotes MFB Zrt. the effectiveness of the financial services activities carried out in the performance of its statutory tasks and the effectiveness of the execution of the transactions. Dear House, The provisions of the bill concerning national assets propose amendments to the Law on State Property, the Law on National Property, the Law on Local Governments of Hungary and the so-called quay law. The amendment of the Law on State Property concerns two subjects, on the one hand the permissions of the holders of ownership rights designated by the Ministerial Decree are clearly defined, and on the other hand the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. clarify and integrate the rules on its management into the existing regulatory regime for public finances. Another large set of asset regulation consists of provisions amending municipal asset management. The direction of the regulation is determined by the consistency with the management of state assets, i.e. the possibility for municipalities to transfer their assets free of charge for the purpose of carrying out public tasks without prejudice to the performance of a mandatory municipal task. The amendment sets out the cases in which, in order to assist in the performance of the public service mission undertaken by the State or local government, the representative body of the municipality may decide, by a qualified majority, to transfer the property belonging to the municipality free of charge. In view of their wide-ranging public service activities among local government-free beneficiaries, churches, ecclesiastical institutions, public bodies and civil society organisations will also be recruited. The third major regulatory issue of the proposal is the amendment of the law on national assets. The amending provisions provide for the possibility to transfer to each other free of charge a share of the property owned by the State and the municipality in order to eliminate the joint ownership. Among the amending provisions, it is also possible to highlight the addition of rules for publicly owned companies. The protection of public assets will be ensured in the future by provisions which limit the content of the instruments of incorporation. Among the amending provisions, I should mention the amendment of the quay law. The amendment expands the range of state-owned quay properties granted to the property management of the Metropolitan Municipality with a property that became land through the control of the Danube, and thus became a quay property. Dear House, The bill before you also serves to further improve the uniform business operation of cooperative credit institution integration. The implementation of a single business policy within integration is the responsibility of the central bank of cooperative credit institutions. On the basis of the bill, the central bank will be entitled to define the general terms and conditions of each service or its business rules and may require cooperative credit institutions to apply them. In this context, it may be necessary to amend certain elements of contracts with customers, to which the legislative proposal narrowly allows. Single business is strengthened by an amendment that clarifies the legality of the transfer, use and modification of information between the members of integration. As part of the single banking operation, the bill allows connected companies under the control of members of integration operating under joint and several responsibility to have access to the single IT system in order to carry out their activities. The purpose of the bill is to enable the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions to perform its institutional protection tasks more effectively in relation to the affiliated undertakings of the members of integration, and therefore the draft legislation also provides the integration organisation with the regulatory competence of the directive for related undertakings. The proposed legislation also ensures that the cooperative credit institution only holds ownership shares in affiliated undertakings which comply with the directives on operation, transparency and risk taking by the integration organisation. In order to ensure a more efficient and rapid intervention, the integration organisation's powers will be increased and, under continuous monitoring, it can take the necessary measures in case of failure to operate properly within integration. Dear Parliament, In addition to the amendment provisions, the bill also contains a separate legal provision for the local government-owned property No 1431 of Csorna, commonly known as the Premontrei Park, to be transferred to church property. The proposal empowers the body of representatives of the municipality of Csorna to decide, by way of derogation from the relevant fundamental provisions, against the prohibition on disposal of the local estates, on the grant of the property to the former owner of the Premontre Preposta in Csorna, in practice, on its return. Before the nationalization, the unparked one belonged to the church, the Abbey, which is now once again church-owned. The park is currently in the management of the assets of the preposterity, with ecotourism development in the area under its supervision. Ownership can also serve to ensure a uniform settlement of the situation of former church properties. The result of the amendment, addition and clarification of the rules on national assets is that property management entities can contribute more effectively to the exploitation and utilisation of national assets for the purposes of public interest and Community needs. [[20.00]] Dear House, To sum up, by adopting the legislative amendment proposal, the efficiency of public service provision is increasing, and owners' rights practitioners can be assured of effective asset management by drawing up clear rules that can be applied in the application of everyday law. The bill also contributes to the expansion of domestic economic cooperation opportunities by broadening the framework for development banking activities and to ensuring a uniform business operation within the savings cooperative sector, thereby further increasing the competitiveness of the sector. In view of this, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament and fellow Members that, in addition to considering what they have said, T/3369. To discuss the proposed legislation and to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. My fellow Members, thank you for your attention, Mr President, on this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Hadházy applauds.]]
u2018-11-14-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-14-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The tasks relating to the management of state assets shall be performed by the government, the members of the government and the budgetary bodies under the control of the members of the government and by entities subject to the exercise of ownership rights of the members of the government within the framework of the laws laid down by the Parliament. The bill before you also falls within the competence of those bodies. T/3369 on the amendment of certain laws relating to public asset management and national financial services and on certain provisions concerning municipal property. Legislative proposal No.3 contains several substantive amendments. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to highlight some important points from the bill, and I would like to describe the main objectives of the proposal. Dear House, One of the fundamental objectives of the bill is to broaden the development banking framework of the Hungarian Development Bank Privately operating Company in order to ensure that MFB Zrt. better ensure the necessary development resources to achieve the economic development goals set by the government's medium- and long-term economic strategy. The motion contains amendments to national assets and to the management of national assets aimed at creating the necessary amending provisions for a uniform interpretation of the law and to legislating the changes that have taken place in recent years concerning national assets and those involved in the management of assets. The bill complements and clarifies the reporting obligations of postal operators and postal service providers. On the basis of the motion, the 2012 CLIX on postal services. Act No.2 of 18 April 2018 on cross-border parcel delivery services 2018/644. With the provisions necessary for the implementation of Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Churches provide education, social care, the protection of families, children and youth, as well as the mediation of culture, with the necessary resources and tasks for the state and the municipalities. Complementing the rules on municipal farming is intended to standardise the rules on the free allocation of state and municipal assets. Dear Parliament, The proposal also aims to enable cooperative credit institutions to perform their integration tasks more effectively in relation to organisations under the control of members of cooperative credit institution integration, so that the proposal also provides the integration organisation with the regulatory competence of the Directive for related undertakings in order to ensure prudent operation. With the application, the 2007 CVI on State Property. Act No. 3 A new paragraph shall be added to Article 4 of the Act, which clarifies the powers of the holders of ownership rights designated by the Ministerial Decree. Accordingly, other persons may, on behalf of and instead of the holder of the ownership rights of the company, be authorised to exercise all or a specific part of the ownership rights. The aim of the provision is to clearly state that the holder of the ownership rights designated by the Ministerial Regulation may not give another person the power to exercise all or a specific part of the ownership rights in respect of the shares in which he exercises ownership rights. Regarding local authorities, CLXXXIX of 2011 on the Hungarian municipalities. The amendment of law complements the rules on the free transfer of municipal property in the management of municipal assets. The amendment expands the scope of the beneficiaries of the free transfer of assets in accordance with the rules on the free transfer of state assets with the Church, the Church Legal Person, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Arts and public benefit organisations. The amending provisions also state that the decision on the free transfer of municipal property falls within the exclusive competence of the body of representatives and that the decision of the body of representatives on this subject is taken by a qualified majority. The proposal is the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. It complements the law to settle the ownership situation of the assets owned jointly by the State and the municipality, but which are wholly owned by the State or by the municipality, with a provision facilitating the elimination of the joint ownership. The termination of the joint ownership can only be done if the State or the municipality transfers the ownership share of Nvtv for the benefit of the other shareholder free of charge. in respect of an exclusive state or municipal holding within the meaning of its definition system. As a general condition, such transfer of property should not jeopardise the performance of public or municipal tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, the property of the state and local authorities is national property. However, the Fundamental Law also provides for the preservation, management of national assets and the main rules and requirements for managing them. As regards the management and protection of national assets, the Fundamental Law emphasises that it aims at serving the public interest, meeting common needs and safeguarding natural resources and taking into account the needs of future generations. The requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets are laid down in a fundamental law. Public funds and national wealth must be managed in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life. A contract for the transfer or exploitation of national assets may be concluded only by an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activities relating to the management of the transferred or transferred national assets are transparent. Dear Parliament, With this bill, the government will make wealth management and parts of national financial services more efficient, as well as regulations on the management of municipal and national assets. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. János Fónagy applauds.]] [[20.10]]
u2018-11-14-178	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-14-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is a salad law which amends a number of legislation relating to state property and municipal property. I thought, when I reviewed this bill, that I would like to draw attention to three major amendments and ask questions. One of the amendments to the State Property Act is a new 22. § will be introduced, and this will virtually cancel the state's position in the event that MNV Zrt. the revenue or expenditure for the year concerned relating to the recovery, recovery or recovery of the property entrusted to it does not cover their implementation. So far, the 22nd. § provided state support. I'm the new 22. I do not see this, and I consider this to be a concern, since MNV Zrt. is the State. should ensure the stability of the situation. The second is that as regards the law on the local governments of Hungary, as my fellow Member Hadházy said in the Fidesz lead speaker in the State Secretary's Expo, the free transfer is linked to the exclusive qualified majority contribution of the body of representatives and extends this possibility to the transfer of municipal property to ecclesiastical and civil society organisations and civil society organisations. These assets, I imagine, and this was also a problem, that so far the local government has been able to grant the free transfer of assets to other local authorities or to the state, and there have been problems with that, because if, for example, the municipality changed the computer and wanted to transfer these still usable computers, say, to a school foundation, so far the legislation has not provided for this free of charge. It's a move forward. However, according to national wealth legislation, these are not just matters, but, for example, company shares are part of national assets. Or, for example, there may be high value real estate in the municipality's property, which, with this legislation, I know it requires a qualified majority, but let's face it, there are municipalities in which they can be solved by a pen stroke. In me, these shares of society were formulated as a thought. If I can give you an example of Siófok, the Balaton Shipping Company. At present, it is fully owned by a local government, and has a share of many billionaires, and Siófok has nearly two billion dollars in it. So, on the basis of this authorisation, it could also be possible to give this ownership share... I know, Mr. Secretary of State also said that, of course, the tasks of the municipality should not be undermined, but I ask you when... So I have a great question mark about the possible opening up of the shares in society, which could be handed over to either church or public benefit NGOs. In addition, the amendment of the law on national assets, and I do not even remember whether it was Mr State Secretary or my fellow Member Hadházy that a one-year extension was drawn up at the time of the entry into force of the law in order to ensure transparency in order to ensure that this transparency should be ensured in the case of contracts existing on 1 January 2012. And there, in the original law, which is currently in force, it was formulated that legal consequences would have to be applied. My question is that until now, this has been the case, that legal consequences must be applied, and then they have not done so, or what has happened with this, or which legislation has defined the legal consequences that will apply. Because now I have a big question mark that after that, I know that until 1 July 2019 they would grant a six-month extension to ensure this transparency, and if this does not happen, then immediate termination and termination without any compensation... But it's been six years, so they haven't been checked yet? Why didn't they happen? Why did you let this go on so long? And if they did so, would they have these consequences, that they might terminate contracts that have not been entirely legal in the last six years? I would like to ask the Secretary of State for his answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-14-181	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, We have just heard that we have question marks in us, and I would like to make statements rather than questions, even if there will be some provocation in it, but frankly, I feel that what you have just presented here is essentially not compatible with the spirit of the gate closure, and in politics perhaps this can come up now that you are here at the beginning of the year or of this political cycle, so you think you can do anything. Here, under a salad law, everything has been submitted here that the great state property robbery is now taking place. You're making this possible. So far it has been, at least we thought that whatever's paved with concrete can't be taken away, so now we're gonna have this. So this is unacceptable, what you have just presented here. This gives me the opportunity, and let me now refer back to what my fellow Member Mr László Hajdu said that this is where the curve of this whole story is slowly forming. Presented at the same time in this session right here at the beginning, everything is being arranged, because here, they believe that they can withstand all the scandals politically, they can bear it, and this may fit into this story. I will continue to stress my distrust of what is happening, and I would like to support it later. Just because we have to refer back to the previous agenda here in several respects, in addition to the free transfer rules of the municipalities, I am afraid that the municipalities will again suffer a disadvantage in this story. They're gonna be the losers of this thing, not the winners, no matter how much I'd like to show you that it's possible. For example, by taking away those buildings in the framework of nationalisation of the school system, you are now creating the possibility of giving this to someone. All of it. And in a way that you have mentioned, if I understand it correctly, but I would rather ask that we can also see the fullness of the establishment and expansion of the church school system in this story, and then this transfer of wealth can take place. But, you know, since it's all wrapped up in today, they're going one step further. Well, then, anyone who agrees that from now on, he will organise a proper bus transport instead of a nonexistent one, then the free transfer of assets can take place. These friends, who are now in line to receive this wealth from you, yes, there will be organisations who will, by name, justify their public benefit, and you will, through the municipalities, ensure that these public service contracts are available, and that this will be done. The end result is that this solution will be associated with the loss of municipal property, it fits with the centralization I spoke about earlier, and in fact makes a significant contribution, in your senses, to what you describe as an illiberal state, in connection with this significant reorganization of power, primarily at the expense of the municipal system. You may be deprived of your property, deprived of it, and this model can no longer be considered as a local government, or you may as well be sorry, I can say that it is no longer considered to be a local government. That's why it's unacceptable. [[20.20]] On the second question, I would like to prove to you that it is more effective and that the public interest is better in this new concept, and I will give you three to four examples that you have produced. I regret that the President of the State Audit Office only thought that he would be present at an earlier item. I'm going to make a reference to what might happen if we thought about what you've just put forward, by the way. I will only tell you the findings of the State Court's investigations conducted by the current State Court of Auditors, Mr Domokos, a period of a few years and a half ago. Ministry of National Resources and this may be linked to the previous agenda:. The internal management system developed by the museum director did not ensure proper, transparent and accountable public spending. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Directorate-General for Procurement and Supply. I would like to quote the findings of the State Court's report here:. The establishment of the conditions for the management of assets and the contracts for the exploitation of assets did not comply with the legal requirements. I'll tell you what. The same with the construction of the National Sports Centre. But what is really beautiful in this story... yeah, it applies, sorry, also to the Hungarian State Opera House, where the internal control system did not provide transparent, regular, economical, efficient and efficient management conditions for public funds and national assets. These are all the findings you've made during your operation, but there's plenty of them to pick and treat, lots of them. But the last thing I do now, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, is to follow up on what reports the State Audit Office is preparing, and last time I got it on 29 October, where it is about the Directorate-General for Auditing European Grants, and the establishment and operation of its internal control system did not ensure the conditions for the proper, transparent, eligible use of public funds. Dear Secretary of State, To say, then, that you are, by the way, carrying out the responsible management of assets described in the proposal, with a view to ensuring a more efficient operation and a better functioning of the public interest. How can they claim that this is happening within such a framework? We have countless examples, Mr President, of which we have confirmed, not even the opposition's political statement, of technical checks proving that you are doing this wrong. Well, I don't want to tell you any more quotes like that at this time of night, but there's a line in this story. And to get back to a local government issue. In recent years, a court decision has been taken where a municipal body of representatives has been convicted of such a decision, because otherwise there has been a transfer of assets. Of course, I'm saying that, by the way, it was a purely political trial. Just because a Member who wasn't in the decision-making process was indicted and didn't suspect a Fidesz representative who was there and voted in favour of the proposal. So, in such circumstances, to make such a decision and provide an opportunity, to bring representatives of local governments into a situation that is amazing, because I agree with the fact that in the decision-making mechanism smaller or larger bodies, let us say, that they can easily make the decision, even as a result of depression, which, at the moment, they think is a good decision, and otherwise, the next body, whether counter-legged or organised or not, thinks that otherwise it can lead to a concrete loss of assets, and on this basis, they can be prosecuted. You have set a precedent for this, as I have just mentioned. There, too, it is disputed what you are doing, and even questioning the independence of the court, how you are doing your job, but here you are opening a door that could cause huge problems here in the near future. That's why I think you should consider it. I don't think they'd want to withdraw it, but I'm sure that law shouldn't be passed. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-14-182	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-11-14-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This is yet another legislative proposal, in another salad law, in the usual way, whose purpose we know: to acquire even more national wealth, to settle on everything, to obtain everything, in the true fidesz way. This proposal also contains several unsuitable amendments and is therefore, as appropriate, unacceptable to the LMP. I would like to start by saying that the rapporteur for this proposal is Andrea Bártfai-Mager, who was appointed after the April election to the Minister for National Property, which, of course, would not be a problem in itself, since it needs to be monitored and handled with care, but the period since 2010 does not support this at all. What we see is that the government and the governing parties treat national wealth as their own, and they are working with all their might to make a very good profit out of it. So what the Minister said at the Economic Commission hearing on 11 May that she wanted to continue with the wealth policy started in 2010 is not a good way. Believe me, it's not a good way, because if you continue on that path, you'll only be a server for the processes you've already entered, and it'll probably lead to new state downsizings. You can call this a reasonable and reasonable humour, as was said at the Commission hearing, and you can say that these decisions are made to improve the quality of life of citizens, but these statements are not factually true. This is about you looking out for a market sector in which you think there is a high profit and abusing your two-thirds power, changing the environment so that it will benefit you and your immediate environment. Madam Minister, in her economic Commission's exposé, stressed that, after 2010, the government strengthened the role of public ownership. He talked primarily about the Hungarian Development Bank, the savings cooperatives, the transformation of the Posta and the National Public Works. These changes and changes are ongoing, which is why the proposal here could also be designed with new amendments to these state-owned companies. In the first instance, the proposal complements the Hungarian Development Bank Act with a new paragraph, in which it broadens its activities. Of course, this is also explained with a loud voice that this is necessary to achieve the government's medium- and long-term economic development goals. Then here I ask with great respect that instead of personalizing, we may get a meaningful answer, Mr. Secretary of State. So I ask whether it is also a strategic element for Lőrinc Mészáros to buy a hotel from the free loan of the Hungarian Development Bank. What a national strategy, I ask you with respect. But this is only one of the most striking problems we have experienced in recent years around the MFB, but it could be added that people close to the government have received favourable loans or subsidies from the Hungarian Development Bank. [[20.30]] In my opinion, the MFB is in the same way that other state-owned financial institutions do not function properly, and it is equally true that it is a captive financial institution. Ladies and gentlemen, These are all examples of misuse of state wealth. It would be your job to provide loans and subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises that are truly available and which provide real help because they are given to small businesses. I always ask myself why there is no real possibility that really helps the small ones, the self-employed. I know that's what the usual government answer is, but we're doing this because we've put out a tender. I would just like to point out that I, and then, will respond to the final statement of the debate on the previous law, to Mr State Secretary, who has worked as a small entrepreneur among small businesses all my life, and I know precisely that they have received no assistance or support. If one of them sometimes receives, it is also known that he has the connection system to justify why he received the support he received. This has not always been the case, my fellow Members, because during the first Orbán government, aid has actually been granted to small businesses, and you have only since done a major political turnaround, and it is worth facing. We know that European Union payments have been accelerated, but we also know that it would be possible for the Hungarian National Bank to lend HUF 400 billion to small businesses who would not receive loans from commercial banks. These would all be good opportunities for small businesses, but my fellow Members, where can we find these proposals? We can't find these anywhere. We should read these in a proposal for such wealth and wealth management. The next scandalous point of the proposal is a new amendment to local governments. The bill submitted for adoption, including its justification, has again, as usual, several vague paragraphs, leaving to the reader's imagination what the real intention was, and what might indeed result from this amendment. Hungary's Fundamental Law clearly states that the State and the local government owns national property. For this reason, the National Assembly created the 2011 National Property Act with a view to the long-term definition of the requirements of transparent and responsible management with national assets, the protection of natural resources, the preservation and protection of national values and the need for future generations. On the other hand, the draft law is set at 16. Article 6 of the National Property Act. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Act:. The joint ownership of the State and the local government, as defined in Annex 1, will be returned to this point, which can be terminated on the basis of a joint end-of-ownership of very important channels, reservoirs, main flood protection lines and other water facilities and water utilities, as well as spaces and parks. The termination of the joint ownership shall be carried out only by the transfer of the ownership of one partner free of charge at the registration value to the other shareholder, provided that the transfer of the property does not jeopardise the performance of the public task. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, I note quietly that whether this amendment is recent or not, I have not witnessed a decision in the Metropolitan Assembly, where these assets have changed owners for free, and the answer every time was that the loss of the municipality's assets cannot arise, because state assets are state assets, and if you think about it, the municipal assets are state assets. At the same time, we know that it is an independent management organisation, and we also know that every municipal representative is individually and collectively responsible for the assets entrusted to him. The development of a single ownership structure of national assets would not be wrong in itself, since it would be possible to preserve values through wise and careful asset management. Mutuality can also be fair, i.e. the State will, if justified, give some national assets to the municipalities, or vice versa. However, it makes me wonder that in the last nine years, we have witnessed the fact that, in the relationship between the state and the municipalities, the municipalities were the ones who drew the short straw and, consequently, the citizens who lived there. Education that has become a state, or waste management, seems to me to have been such a spoilt direction that it would come back for every law, not for no reason, I would add, Mr Secretary of State has put these services on the brink of ruin. We know very well that through the KLIK, the quality of school management and education through the KLIK, as well as the current level of waste management, I am more than fine when I say that it leaves something wrong. In this case, why should this be any different, and indeed, give me one example, Mr Secretary of State, once again, when a task taken over has become better. For example, you can say that when health care was placed under public supervision, which I believe was not a wrong decision, I would add in brackets whether the waiting lists were reduced. Oh, no. I'm sorry. It is also a special feature of the amending proposal that Annex 1 referred to in the draft, which I referred to earlier, does not correspond at all to the list of assets mentioned in the amendment, because it already contains only those belonging to the State. None of the mentioned spaces or parks are listed there. In other words, the amendment refers to categories which are not included in the current law. The titles of Annex 1 do not include state and municipal mixed-ownership elements. The question arises, therefore, that the legislator has not been able to properly and accurately state what he wants or worse: he wanted to confuse the finals of the amendment and deliberately create an unclear legal and financial situation in which the State, abusing its dominant position, can quietly fish in confusion and steal almost any element of the municipal property. We have also witnessed this, I would add, because when public education was removed from the competence of the local government, the means of operation and operation were also taken by the state apparatus, instead of providing public education institutions with their own resources, fresh and modern tools. But that's just my personal comment. So this could be everything, from parks to sports halls, from parks to museums, we know exactly what we're talking about in Városliget, public waste water treatment plants, drinking water networks, and it's just a question of what next amendment creates their privatisation in two steps, in favour of fidesz buddies. Well, that doesn't have anything to do with the original purpose of the law, especially the principles and rights of the Fundamental Law. What is also important is that the law on cooperatives is amended in several places, in which many are technical, but what is important is the central bank above the savings cooperatives. According to this, cooperatives must operate according to a single business model and operate according to the standard product regulation described by the Centre. But the most important thing for you is that you're looking at every member's portfolio, you've got information about the clients, and that's probably the point. However, the LMP takes the view that the restructuring of the savings cooperatives is only part of the government's restructuring and takeover of the banking system. The integration of the savings cooperatives was only about having a central bank, which brings together savings cooperatives, which is run by the state. This is fundamentally contrary to the essence of savings cooperatives, which should rest on grassroots organisation and mutual local funding. That's the point of the savings cooperatives. The transformation was also aimed at, although personal relations have changed since then, the whole sector has been played into the hands of János Lázár's friend, Zoltán Spéder, FHB owner. [[20.40]] So also in this case, savings cooperatives were acquired under the pretext of transparency and more successful operation. This was the same plan as the MKB, Eximbank and MFB in the previous cycle. What is still closely linked to national wealth and improving the quality of life of citizens is that the population still does not have access to gas at market prices. I think it is also a very important element of this law, even though one of the government's loudest things to say in recent years has been that it has been a reduction in overhead. But what did we experience? The price of gas has decreased at home, but the world market price for gas has decreased to a much greater extent, and I ask with great respect where the difference has gone. Someone tell me where the difference is, who has the profit margin you showed as an extra profit to foreign service providers when you showed up. It wasn't that you gave this extra profit back to society, it was that you put it in your pocket. So I respectfully maintain the question of where the world market price is. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the difference between the gas price paid by the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-14-184	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-11-14-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I will now focus on only one point of this law, because that is what is most outrageous, certainly unlawful and infinitely harmful. And this is the 13th. § 1, which states that the municipal property, as well as the part of the national property, may be transferred free of charge to a church and church legal person, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to public benefit organizations, on the other hand, in order to facilitate the exercise of their duties of faith or, where appropriate, to carry out their public and municipal duties. Now, if this or similar law had been filed ten years ago, then I am sure that the Fidesz-KDNP representatives would have been the most raging of what a loss there is, that this is a waste of national wealth, that they are now doing this without a problem to their friends in their organisations called all kinds of public benefit. I would add that this is not only a problem for me, but also for the fact that the state is increasingly dissipating itself from the scope of the municipalities. This is what they do in higher education, where they admitted that the Corvinus model will be followed by all Hungarian universities, where they simply exclude universities from state property and democratic control, and hand them over to all kinds of foundations, and put them under corporate supervision, under corporate guardianship. But this seems to be what they do with a lot of other public and municipal tasks, and for that, they also create the background. It is, let us say, in the hands of the circles not far from today's governing parties that hand over the task of carrying out public and municipal tasks and the associated financing and property and other assets, which is simply unacceptable if we think that the state is to satisfy the needs of society and to fulfil the public functions to which it was created at all. You are now eliminating the state's right to exist with this trend in practice. So for the Dialogue, it is certain that this is quite unacceptable and outrageous in itself. But the thing is, it's against the Basic Law you've written. According to Article 38 of the Fundamental Law, the aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, meet common needs and protect natural resources and take account of the needs of future generations. The promotion of the religious, religious, legal person's religious functions is certain not to serve the public interest and to meet the common needs, because there are indeed those in our community, in the national community in this society who follow the church's teaching, and they have an interest in satisfying it, I don't know, in terms of material conditions, but this is 10-13 percent of society. So it would be good to take into account the 85-90 percent of national wealth churches being tried to play for religious purposes. I'm pretty sure it's against the law, so for your part, the Dialogue will also take appropriate legal action in this matter. In fact, they may think that they are using the churches now, but let me give you a historical parallel: the history and relationship of the state socialist system and the trade unions. Practically similar was played: on this well-organized network and institutional system, state power was established, which worked according to a different ideology, but according to the same party state logic as the system you have now established. The fact is, in the long run, state socialism could no longer have harmed the trade union movement. After the change of regime, we saw how the trade unions were losing their credibility. They've been moaning about it ever since. If you will now use the churches in the same way as the previous or pro-state system of trade unions, you will suffer the same gross loss of credit. If I were a member of a church, which you are now makin' up, and not only with this, but I'm about to get to the point of what other steps, then I would be ashamed and questioning the integrity of church leaders, and then I wouldn't be talking about the 85-90 percent who aren't a member of the Church, and you see with indignation that you are trying to transfer national wealth to this institutional system. So that we really don't go far, it's not just real estate, it's not just land, they're smearing the churches. Today before the House was the bill that would exclude churches from the scope of the Public Procurement Act. Why? How? What for? These are the churches that somehow manage to be in the right place at the end of the year. At the end of 2017, HUF 80 billion was distributed completely unchecked and announced, so it was not for statutory or contractual purposes, and at the end of 2016 118 billion was again distributed between churches and church institutions in a split fashion. I understand that they are very loyal, at least trying to buy the loyalty of these churches, but the fact is that they are tax-paying money, you are accountable not only to church leaders, but also to the taxpayers. It is also true that you often use churches as the black casket of Fidesz, and it is extremely humiliating for them too. So before you tell me that I would attack the churches here, I'll tell you that you are the ones who are most damaging to the credibility of the churches, by removing them from all laws, by granting them immunity from the rules of transparent farming, and by pouring the public money into them without counting. This is infinitely harmful to churches, according to the church's teaching of religious people and non-church religious people, and thus to social peace and harmony. So I'm asking you very nicely to at least take this paragraph out of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-14-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to exercise their right to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth.
u2018-11-14-187	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the professional debate in this bill and allow me to start responding to what has been said. I'm trying to tell you in order. The State's obligation to uphold will not be terminated. MNV Zrt. The central budget shall continue to provide the resources necessary for its operation, including the resources necessary for the performance of contractual obligations, in accordance with the rules governing the central subsystem of public finances. [[20.50]] This regulation has not changed, and therefore the State's obligation to uphold it remains. I don't know. Perhaps our colleague Varju mentioned the case of Bahart, Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. Bahart is a limited marketable stock of the municipality, so it can be held under the conditions laid down in the law or in the decree of the local government, only for the benefit of a State or another local government, or can be transferred to a company of 100% of them. By the way, high value properties typically belong to the sole property of the municipalities, so they cannot be alienated or burdened. With regard to the concerns about the local government's assets, and the loss of local government's assets at all, allow me to refer back to the former item on the agenda, where we were talking about reducing the autonomy of the local authorities. Now my fellow Members are concerned that the municipalities are unable to make a good decision on their own assets. There is no doubt responsibility for these decisions, and there is no doubt that the members of the municipalities are also responsible for these decisions. For my part, I very much hope that those who make such far-reaching decisions in local authorities are aware of this. Congressman Varju also mentioned us reading the findings of the investigations of the State Audit Office. I, I admit, take it as a merit that there is a State Audit Office that reveals, describes and asks for the correction of errors experienced in such a large system. That's what the State Audit Office does. I'm not gonna put that at the disadvantage of the system. Congressman Csárdi asked what the MFB was financing and how. Please, regardless of the names, the Hungarian Development Bank financed activities, financed tourism on the question it submitted, and not X.Y. or Z. These are the strategic goals. By the way, I am sorry that you left, because, if you will allow me, I will change hats for half a minute, and not as a Member of Parliament and State Secretary, but as the founding president and heir of the Association of Hungarian Entrepreneurs' Incubators, since 1986 working in this area, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot be financed anywhere in the world under banking conditions. Micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises are financed by a dedicated institutional system in all the developed economies of the world, including in Hungary, and we did not create it, the Hungarian Enterprise Development Foundation was established in 1991 and it is financed from its funds, primarily from its micro-crediting system, also in the capital. To suggest to Mr Tordai, please allow one response. I am not, by the way, a member of a single community, church, church district, and I know this number, which says that in Hungary 13-15 percent is the proportion of the believing population, i.e. who is carrying out quasi-confessional activities. But please, Congressman, as you are well aware, these church organizations are far from carrying out religious activities, but also carrying out educational, social and other tasks. Obviously, they also occasionally require parts of property or real estate for religious tasks, but in the last eight years, working in the Ministry of Development, in an organization currently carrying out such activities, I claim responsibility on the basis of my own experience that these institutions, for example, require and require, for example, real estates for educational purposes or social activities, and these activities are by far not only required by this 13 percent. If my fellow Member looks at the number of people standing in line, say, in a social institution operated by a church, and how many of them, in some cases, are actually rightfully objectionable to state such systems, then I think that if the wealth goes for such purposes, he should go. Finally, while I have brought this up, allow me to state the reasons for this bill. In recent years, the state has not predominantly asked the municipalities for property or real estate, but the municipalities have asked the State, for example, for real estates such as MÁV, properties temporarily or permanently not used for the proper functioning of other large, ex-State organisations, but I have included, for example, the buildings of MÁV for the former educational purposes of MÁV in the metropolitan cities, all of them have been asked and received for local government education purposes and similar tasks. So please take this practice and this experience knowledge into account when considering and considering the adoption and support of this bill. Having said this, I would ask that whoever has an amendment to what has been said should submit it and, if they are accepted, please support our proposal. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-14-188	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. [[21.00]] It is now time to speak after the agenda. Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, applied for a post-meeting speech:. He was thrown into complete chaos by the government with the title of higher education. You have the floor, Congressman, in five minutes.
u2018-11-14-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I said in the title of my speech, I strongly believe that the government's activity has driven higher education into chaos. It's a bad start in the first place. There is a general lack of money, which is something that people who know about higher education and that we come from, and we know for sure that we do not have the basic conditions for education research. We need to know that there is a huge problem with wages, and we also need to know that the pointless and unnecessary fight against CEU has led to a very serious loss of prestige for Hungarian higher education. That's what the government's planning to do with a shovel. We have already seen, in connection with CEU or Corvinus, that completely out of the system of Hungarian higher education, he is trying to reorganize Corvinus into a foundation. And for all the other universities, there are all kinds of ideas. If I understand correctly, they will try to organise them in optional companies. They don't think in English in a uniform concept. This causes a very serious uncertainty, which will increase the exodus of instructors and accelerate the process of reducing the number of students. Let's look at some facts in detail. First of all, we need to know why it is important to talk about the problem with higher education. It is important to know that the proportion of graduates in Hungary is very low. In the Europe 2020 objectives, this was determined by the Heads of State and Prime Ministers of Europe for the period 2010-20 by the European Union, it is stated that 40 per cent of those aged 30 to 44 should have a higher education degree. With us, it's 32 percent, and it's decreasing. So, let's not catch up, we're behind. Unfortunately, it can be concluded that Hungarian higher education institutions are sliding down the international rankings. Today you can find a Hungarian university within the 500th list with a magnifying glass, while Slovenian, Czech, Polish and Romanian universities are there. Unfortunately, the number of students in higher education has decreased by 100,000 in ten years. The government always says that there are demographic reasons for this. That's not true. I would like to quote from the material in front of the Hungarian Cultural Committee: the number of students in Hungarian higher education institutions has decreased in recent years beyond the demographic impact, and keeping talented young people at home is a challenge even in the upper secondary schools, as stated by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, not me. And what I see is that you're saying that right, because that's the way it is. So there is a bad starting position, and what we see now is that the government is holding the Corvinus, stressing that it is reorganizing it into some kind of foundation, which it makes up 300-400 billion forints, while it does not state any warranty requirements, such as how many students it should hire as scholarships. All Corvinus has said so far is that they're planning to reduce the percentage of current scholarships among their students, which is 60 percent, to 40 percent, and to increase their student fees to 60 percent. This will result in the exclusion of children from Corvinus, who are otherwise talented and capable, but who come from poor families, because high scores in the recordings will be achieved by those who will receive these scholarships, whose parents will be able to pay for special classes in high school studies. The children of poor families can't have this, so they won't get in. For tuition training, the children of wealthy families will be able to get in. And they have no idea of all the other universities, and they have thrown them into the standing water that they will be able to transform into all sorts of companies, and it is absolutely absurd that they can't even say what kind of economic company they are. Optionally, how to convert to zrt., bt., kft., completely chaotic and unthinkable. There's no real idea behind it. This causes an incredible amount of uncertainty in higher education. So I always say that higher education needs one thing, to be left alone. We have to move past that today. Not only do we have to leave them alone, give them money, give them their autonomy back, and start a dialogue with them, and not decide over their heads what their fate will be. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-14-190	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I thank you for your work; the Parliament will resume its meeting at 8 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
