u2018-02-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and to anyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament: over the past period, two of our former fellow Members have passed away. Kálmán András started his first parliamentary elections in 1998, where he obtained his mandate in the 3rd constituency of Fejér county in the colours of the MSZP. For three cycles, he was the district's parliamentary representative. During his years in the legislative process, he assisted the work of the Economic Committee and the Economic and IT Committee. His work played an important role in the life of his narrower country: from 1999 to 11 years he was the mayor of Dunaújváros. He died in the 68th year of his life. Etelka Barsiné Pataky was elected from the Budapest regional list of MDF at the parliamentary elections in 1994. From 1996 he continued his work in the colours of the People's Party-MDNP faction. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Committee. After 2000 he was Hungary's Ambassador to Vienna for three years, and after the first elections to the European Parliament after joining the EU, he obtained his mandate on Fidesz's list. In 2009, he was elected president of the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers. He passed away 77 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Members. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, at the initiative of the Hungarian Association for the Protection of Interests, the National Assembly declared the 19th of February and the day of the birth of Zsuzsanna Kossuth as the Day of Hungarian Nurses. In April 1849 Zsuzsanna Kossuth was appointed head of the National Chief Nursing Office, i.e. as the chief nurse of all camp hospitals, his brother Lajos Kossuth, President of the later Governor of Hungary. A few weeks after the appointment, 72 camp hospitals were established, in which Hungarian women and men volunteered at the call of the nurse-in-chief provided their fellow countrymen wounded in the fight for independence and freedom in Hungary. Zsuzsanna Kossuth did his duty tirelessly until the end of the war of freedom, and later, because of his involvement, he was held accountable by the imperial justice system, forced to emigrate in the last years of his life. A few years later in the Crimean war, Florence Nightingale created the basics of combat care and made the work of nurses a respected profession. To commemorate this, the worldwide day of nurses is celebrated on 12 May. Dear Parliament, With the decision of four years ago, the aim of the legislator was not simply to capture the memory of a gesture or a historical person, but to emphasize the appreciation and prestige of the nursing work beyond that, and to raise awareness that the promotion of a nursing career should be supported by all means. Patient care is not simply a high level of professional activity, it is the ability to deal professionally with everyday professional and human challenges. On the birthday of the Hungarian nursing pioneer, the best nurses are honoured, and this is a good opportunity for us to express our gratitude and appreciation for their sacrifice to the entire nursing staff. Dear Parliament, We will now begin our work by speaking before the agenda. First, I give the floor to the head of the MSZP Group, Bertalan Tóth, who needs to change in Hungary! He will address his speech with a title. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today they have to settle for me from among the socialist representatives, not because there is a flu epidemic, but on this day the collection of the recommendations for the elections on 8 April will begin; obviously it is no coincidence that Parliament has been convened today. Our representatives would like to meet with the voters, as they have done before, today, but I understand deeply that you do not want to do so. But I also think that this is not why the candidate for Prime Minister Fidesz did not come to Parliament today, because he should have answered some questions because of the events of the last few days and weeks. Although I am very fond of Csaba Dömötör's speeches, I am listening to the horse-zung he is saying, but the biggest corruption scandal of recent years has broken out, as the report of the European Anti-Fraud Office revealed that an organised criminal group has stolen EU money during the modernization of public lighting in various settlements, so I will say once again that it is an organized criminal group, and the family of the Prime Minister is involved in this, because although public media does not like to describe its name in this case. [[13.10]] But this is not the first time when we cannot ask the candidate for Prime Minister Fidesz a question, because a few weeks ago, when it came to the fact that their anti-refugee campaign was also based on massive lies, he did not come into Parliament's Chamber and did not answer the questions, because while Fidesz spent more than HUF 10 billion of taxpayers' money on the Fidesz moonyard, it turned out that this campaign was based on a series of lies because you gave 1300 refugees refugee status, you gave more than 20,000 foreign citizens a place of residence, while your friends in the settlement bond business earned hundreds of billion forints. It turns out that Russian criminals have been allowed to do business with Hungarian people, and it has also turned out that they have dealt with various businessmen, Naffa and Pharaons recently. But last week, it also turned out that their big campaign slogan, their campaign slogan before 2014, the so-called overhead reduction, was also a bluff, since in 2013-14 the gas market suffered a significant price drop, greater than what you claimed in household consumption, and it also turned out that since 2015 the price of gas, the price of energy sources, had not been reduced, so they pulled about HUF 70,000 out of the pockets of Hungarian families overall. So this bluff was exposed, and it turns out you weren't telling the truth. Even though it is said that Hungarian health care is in excellent condition, while we hear how many months and years of waiting for surgery, how many GP districts have not been filled, and how many people have to wait hours or days for treatment during emergency care; while we can also see that private clinics are opening up, where people with good money, such as your oligarchs, can be treated, while Hungarian people have to wait and have a hospital infection. That is why we say that change must be done, justice must be done. Justice must be done, organised crime must be eliminated, those responsible should be accountable, even when it comes to the Prime Minister's son-in-law. There is also a need for justice in the area of pensions, as half of pensioners today receive retirement benefits below HUF 100,000. They live in poverty, their pension needs to be caught up. Justice must also be done in the area of foreign exchange credentials, because you have submitted legislative proposals, and hundreds of thousands of families are still suffering from the burden you refuse to solve. Justice must also be done in health care, since all Hungarians deserve proper care. That's why we need a change. The Association of Change was established under the leadership of Gergely Christmas: on 8 April the moment of truth will come, for our common future, for Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-02-19-2	I give the floor to Mr. Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, We are listening to their speech before the manyth agenda, their many proposals, and if the decisive power of the opposition is raised to speak, and its representative, then it would be worth paying attention by default, but there is an important circumstance that makes this very, very difficult, not only because they are not in full numbers here, but mostly because of the number of days they propose; something, then something else, perhaps the opposite. It cannot be decided, Mr. Group leader, that what we hear is the individual proposal, the party's, the leader of the faction, or their candidate for Prime Minister. You can't clean this up like this. Because the price of energy has been increased a dozen times, and now they're proposing a reduction in energy prices. You referred to health care, as we all know you would have made it pay. It applies to foreign exchange lenders... and if there is a party responsible for the fact that foreign exchange loans have gained so much space in Hungary earlier, then it is the Hungarian Socialist Party. You ploughed up a well-functioning home-building system. There's a reason for this mess. The fact that the MSZP has spent the last few years fighting for positions, koncé, list places, is why they are not here now, instead of dealing with the country's affairs. All we know is that they don't like the government, they don't like Fidesz, they supported quotas in Brussels, and otherwise they'd break down the border. That's all we know about you. And I have to say, in this situation, it's not very helpful for you to have your new Prime Minister's candidate: he's been around a lot of parties, he's looked into a lot of places, from the SZDSZ to the LMP to the Dialogue. And the thing is, you've chosen a candidate who's a black belt master of cloaking. 'Cause a few years ago, he said he hated social more than he did Fidest. He made a deal with you soon after, even if you had to hit him with a few shots. Earlier, he made himself a green politician, and now he's a bankruptcy worker for the Socialist Party, and as far as we can see, he's in full position. That's quite a turnaround, isn't it? By the way, speaking of public money, you said once that you were infinitely sorry that left-wing politicians weren't decent enough. That's the opinion of your Prime Minister's candidate for you. It's easy to say that this is a matter of the left. That's partly true, but not entirely. Because we are living at a time when the country's security is threatened from many directions. And under these circumstances, it does not matter what position opposition parties, such as the MSZP, take. [[13.20]] The facts look like you've found a prime minister candidate who's pro-immigration to the neck, but really up to the top of his head. Gergely Christmas's party has previously published ambitious plans to solve the immigration crisis. It begins with the call for the government to stop building the border fence immediately, because, as they said, it is pointless. The party of Christmas also wrote that it would open the barracks to immigrants. Considering that there was a similar initiative in Zuglo, that's a pretty scary picture. After such a history, it is not surprising that the party of Gergely Christmas voted 14 times in Brussels. Fourteen times! This is how many times they have faced the interests of the country and the will of the Hungarians. Typically, this was denied at a press conference last week by Gergely Christmas, your Prime Minister's candidate, and also that they had supported the quota all along and that they had attacked the border lock. If there was an X-ray at the scene, he would have shown the yellow fence cutter right there in Gregory Christmas's pocket. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Dear House, It is clear from all of this that Hungary cannot afford another left-wing government, and not only because you only care about cons, not only because you continue to have a grip on your mania, but above all because in an extremely critical situation, you are putting the country's safety at risk. If they were given the opportunity, they would immediately surrender and implement all immigration support plans immediately. You have given your speech the title that, if I recall correctly, there must be a change in Hungary. On the one hand, we agree: it would be good to have an opposition that is able to stand up for Hungary at least in fundamental matters. If that were to happen, that would be the real change. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-4	Speaking also before the agenda, Congressman György Szilágyi, on behalf of Jobbik, asked: "The Prime Minister and his family were suspected of a series of corruption frauds committed in a criminal alliance, and there was no consequence? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2018-02-19-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is experiencing one of the most serious crises in the last 28 years, one of the most serious political crises, as the Prime Minister and his family directly suspected a series of serious corruption fraud committed in a criminal alliance. This series of fraud has caused an international scandal, because despite the fact that public television or MTI refuse to deal with this issue, leading newspapers such as the New York Times or the Guardian deal with it and keep writing about it, as they see how serious this may be. There will be serious consequences to this case in any way. There will be serious consequences for our international perception, since democratic countries, the states of law that see this issue, do not understand what is happening in Hungary today. They don't understand how the Prime Minister can do his cowardly hiding from the questions since this case came to light. They don't understand how it can happen in a democratic country that the media is trying to keep this case quiet. They don't understand how the D.A. can do that he's not investigating this case properly. They do not understand that you, who are fellow Members of Viktor Orbán, can constantly cover for Viktor Orbán. The second serious consequence will be that the Hungarian people will have to pay back 13 000 million forints to the European Union, as OLAF has asked the European Commission to establish this. In all likelihood, by order of Viktor Orbán, Fidesz municipalities, mayors, members of the government, ministers, state ministers participated in the fraud series. This makes this case even worse, since we can talk about the Mafia government here. And if you do so, let me remind you of the words of John Lazarus. I didn't make it up, he said that he and István Tiborcz invented this business together in 2009. It was János Lázár who, together with István Tiborcz, came up with the scheme that stole serious billions from Hungarian taxpayers. János Lázár, who would be responsible for overseeing European boring money, invented it together with István Tiborcz. Then, by 2012, he formed with the perpetrators' circle companies, certain, permanent people who worked on the same scheme based on internal information from the ministry and local government, prepared projects with ministry and municipal assistance, wrote expert opinions, wrote applications, organized so-called competitors, in Hungarian: they tried to make their illegal activities legal. It makes the situation worse, that in this case, it is also clear that the Hungarian prosecutor's office is not operating in the interests of the country, but in the interests of Fidesz, under the direction of Fidesz. After all, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office looked at the same cases as the European Anti-Fraud Office in the same time period, and the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office said that everything was fine here, because István Tiborcz's son-in-law, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, there was no lawlessness, and the European Anti-Fraud Office found that serious irregularities had occurred, as it claimed a hundred percent of these EU funds back, because he said it, and revealed the group of perpetrators that they had done these things here with the same group of perpetrators, both in a criminal alliance and in advance. The consequences will, of course, be borne by Hungarian taxpayers. As long as those who have stolen these money can live a luxurious life, Viktor Orbán and his environment can live their lives in luxury properties, luxury cars, luxury travel, luxury yachts, private jets and everything else, while the punishment for stealing will have to be paid by Hungarian people. My fellow Members, I believe that this is absolutely outrageous. In other countries, as I said, democratic countries, even saying it is strange, for example, that is not how things work in South Africa. If you look at it, then in South Africa, his own partymates forced the Prime Minister to resign when he was involved in corruption, and when they arrested one of the largest oligarch families connected to him. You too would have had the opportunity to force Viktor Orbán to resign, but you failed to do so. Please pay your attention to South Korea, not because I'm suggesting a winter Olympics, no, but because the former South Korean president's stooge has just been sentenced to 20 years. Believe me, we're gonna replace you, we're gonna be on the government, we're gonna be cleared here, and maybe the trombones are gonna go to jail for the same length of time. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You expected us to get cold, but we're not going up. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] We're used to your style, and we're used to your choice of subject. A few years ago, you insulted me for my origin, and now you're abusing the Prime Minister for his position. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Congressman, you are well aware that this case has been investigated once. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-02-19-8	Calm down, calm down. I'm not saying gentlemen, but calm down.
u2018-02-19-9	I've listened to you many times over the four years with great patience, and I'm asking you to give me these five minutes. This case has been investigated once, and you know it. They know exactly how the campaign started, and they knew precisely that OLAF was now repeating what it had already started years ago, which had already been investigated years ago. In your examination, you have brought the result that you have brought, and you do not agree with the right of your heart. At the same time, we cannot go beyond the fact that OLAF has brought this fresh start, this re-examination, again at the beginning of the election campaign. We are convinced and convinced that this initiative of OLAF is nothing more than a campaign action in Brussels, nothing more than a campaign report in Brussels, nothing more than the Brussels intention to support a party that is strangely different now. By the way, honourable Member, this discrediting campaign has also missed its purpose, as the OLAF report quoted concerns the period 2009-2014, and if you did not know by then, in the time since then, if not elsewhere, the press could tell that at this time the main owner of the company you mentioned was not the Prime Minister's son-in-law, but Lajos Simicska's company. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: But then the Simicska was with you!]] [[13.30]] Speaking of which, on financial matters, you are so absorbed, let me remind you that Jobbik should finally respond to the worst party financing scandal in the last 30 years. The question is, how could a party with such a hard, sometimes heavy sound bet be bought with a case-lift and a zipper. And you've been bought with some posters, that's the truth. I know this feels bad, and I know you don't want to hear it, and I know you guys have a lot on your mind, but that should be answered. This has been said by the competent authorities, and you have received thousands of posters from the aforementioned contractor at a price which is illegal. You claim it's a business secret, you can't tell me how much it cost. This also shows how much business policy is, and worse, is considered a daily business, a market business. It's not the only case. They didn't clarify the role of their group leader in an extensive VAT fraud case. They do not like to listen, and they do not like to talk about the fact that the nepotism issue has revealed strong things. At least seven members of Jobbik's former eight-member presidency have received money or a position in the party or in a related organization. It is not the first time they have heard it, it is not the first time they have heard it, and I think that this will be one of the greatest lessons in the future, both in the period before and now before the election campaign. You, a radical party for money and power, are capable of anything. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-10	The leader of the LMP's faction, Mrs Bernadett Szél, will now be next. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are at one of the last meetings of the cycle, and the thing is that it is worth looking at things a step further away from what you have done for the last eight years here in Hungary. But if it is a case of organised corruption in a criminal alliance involving a minister, a son-in-law, not just anyone's son-in-law, so the various vectors point to the Prime Minister, then I think it must be said that a turning point has occurred in Hungary. You know, I've been consulting with Ákos Hadházy about how much money you've taken from this country through corruption. We had a very conservative estimate that 500-600 billion forints, and this doesn't include off-shore, there's no VAT fraud, there's a lot of stuff in it. You know, the reason that this money hurts voters is because when we go to the rotting hospitals where... it's Kossuth Zsuzsa's day today, yes, Mr. President. But Zsuzsa Kossuth's memory would have been respected by the Fidesz-KDNP if he had voted in favour of the proposal of the LMP, in which the wages of health professionals would have been paid, if they had created the right conditions in hospitals, they would have created the right situation for people to recover. You haven't done that in the last eight years. And they didn't do it because we're talking about István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros and all the other people whose pockets you filled with money. What about the voters? When the Prime Minister was still here, right now, he is not in our midst, because he went somewhere with a sudden urgency, he said when I asked him how he felt about the doubling of the number of people who died of hospital infection during his administration in this country, his answer was Soros. And when we talk about the lack of chalk in schools, because you've transformed the system with an education reform anger that doesn't even have the most basic things to say about the situation of teachers, and the situation of children, that the six-year-old schoolboy is going through six hours with his six-kilo bag, you know, gentlemen and ladies, who are in this room, I can tell you that you've been using the last eight years for nothing. It's almost just bad. From then on, it was very sad to listen to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, in which practically everyone, from opposition parties to civil society organisations, is allies of Hungary, according to the current Prime Minister, as part of a great conspiracy, which, if I understand correctly, is about developing a new race of people, at least this is what the current Prime Minister of Hungary has been talking about. I ask you, what did Viktor Orbán undertake? Science fiction, do you want to be a science fiction writer, or do you want to be the Prime Minister of Hungary? I suspect that after April 8th, you should experience your passion for science-fantastic literature. What I can promise from the LMP is that we will do everything we can to make it fail and write books rather than politics, because it is starting to cause a lot of damage to Hungary. And, you know, when I talk about two Hungarys being side by side, I mean those totally pathetic government attempts in which you have created a safe place for yourself, where you feel comfortable; where in the House Committee, the Fidesz Group leader can afford the luxury of asking him why Fidesz-KDNP does not support the ban on eviction of families with children, then he says that he will explain this later. You know, it doesn't work that way, because there are no two Hungarys. Our Hungary, what we see, we see a wage crisis; that health care has collapsed in this country, ask their own voters. What is the biggest problem now in Hungary, 2018? The health situation. In our Hungary, where we live, where you do not live, then, but we do not, where the education system does not work. There suffers from the teacher, suffers from the student, and suffers from everyone. You have divided us because this government has not governed in the last eight years. You put the reins between the horses and implemented the Putin plan point by point. They're taking away not only our present with their huge corruption, but also our future. This is what the Paks expansion is all about, as one of the biggest shames of this cycle, and that is what the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is about. Technically, I'm standing in front of you not only because we're fighting for our own lives, but we're also fighting for the lives of our children, our grandchildren and our great-grandsons, because you stole so much money here and now that they won't have any money. There's a debt slavery waiting for this country when we finally manage to get you out of this government position where you are. I said yes, they did almost everything wrong. One thing they've done right in the last eight years is family tax relief. But I'm saying that's not enough. In this country, we are still fighting for the second child. We will double the family tax relief for one child and launch a huge social housing program, raise pensions and finally compensate foreign exchange creditors. This is our program. And what is your program for the next period? [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2018-02-19-12	Once again, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you have just praised the system of family tax incentives, let me ask you why you are included in the program on your website... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]]
u2018-02-19-14	Madam Group Leader has already told you what you have to say, please listen to the answer. Try it.
u2018-02-19-15	...we have to end this. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] At the end of the week, you held a year-end review where you gave me similar thoughts, and I can't stop trying to get something of this back. You used an adjective, a rating that probably knocked out the fuse for a lot of people. You said that Hungary is a wreck zone. He said we're not gonna be a junkyard anymore. This rating is humiliating, disdainful of the performance that Hungary and millions of Hungarians have shown in recent years. We've only seen a similar rating from the politically-solved SDS. And since so many of us have such an insult, I would like to list to you nine facts that prove that the place we live in is not a wreckage zone, as you say, but a growing country. Let's start by saying that last year, economic growth reached a record of 4 percent, and then it grew by 5 percent compared to 2010. When leftist expertise prevailed, the economy fell by 7 percent over a year. Then it is also a fact that there have never been as many people in Hungary as there are now, there are 740,000 more jobs. When left-wing expertise ruled, unemployment doubled. But that's not all, because it's more and more worth working in the process. Just one example: minimum wages rose by 88 percent compared to left-wing governance. That's a lot. On the other hand, what did the left do? He took a month's wages from hundreds of thousands. Then, to the fourth time, while the left was sprinkled with salt on a series of family support measures, the current government introduced family taxation and launched a new home-building programme, the new housing part of which you would be abolishing, was recently announced. It's a shame! In the meantime, taxes have been reduced, employers' taxes have been reduced, personal income tax has been reduced, which you would otherwise drastically raise, and you have a plan to do so, which is also in the program. And it was this government that increased the size of national wealth. Today more than 50 percent of the banking system and the media are Hungarian-owned, and we have also increased national positions in the energy sector, which has made it possible to reduce the costs. [[13.40]] And what the left had done before: for tobacco it has privatized entire sectors. If he could, he'd do it now. And for the seventh time, we have committed ourselves to protecting the value of pensions, and we have respected that. There was also a pension increase in January this year, not to mention the pension premium and the pension supplement; on the other hand, the left took away a month's pension. This government also does not forget those who live in more modest financial conditions, so we doubled the amount of children's meals and therefore the textbook is free. The VAT on basic foods has been reduced, which was previously supported by the left and then not voted; and there are no foreign currency loans. And what did the left do in eight years? All he could offer them was aid. Typically, in the last year of left-wing governance, half a million Hungarians applied for some kind of aid. Finally, to the ninth, this government has strengthened security and further strengthens security. I am not only talking about the fact that several policemen are serving on the streets, that thousands of new police vehicles have been deployed, but also that the government has built a border lock and is fighting illegal immigration by all means. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: This is your program for what the Socialist Party did?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, You are putting these results at risk. They're putting you at risk by supporting all anti-immigration plans and even breaking down the border lock. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Lies!]] Even if you shout, you know very well that here in the House you said that the fence is not the answer. He said it in the place where he's sitting right now, and he was standing right there. That's where he said it. Ladies and Gentlemen, Together with the list of errors, this country is further ahead than in 2010, which is felt by more and more Hungarian families in their own lives. But you know as well as I do that without security, there are no economic results. If Hungary becomes an immigrant country, we will not be able to devote the additional performance of the economy to Hungarian families in the future. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The Butcher and the Tiborcz family!]] There's a fundamental difference between us. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: There are more, Mr. Secretary.]] Allow me to close with this. You believe that Hungary is a wreck zone. But we love this country, we have to fight every day for our right, for better, but this is a good place. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, Poor Lawrence. Miklós Soltész towards Dr. Wind Bernadett: Shss!]] On behalf of the people sitting here, I can say that in the coming years we will continue to fight to make it a better place. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We'll be there! Don't worry, Mr. Secretary, we'll be there.]] We have something to protect, and we will protect it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-16	Ladies and Gentlemen, In the Hungarian education system the kindergarten is designed to prepare our children to meet the requirements of the school. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I thought the Minister of Defense was going there!]] At the age of six, a first-grade kid is forced to observe 45 minutes of silence, focus on the whole thing, then he's mature. You can't do that for 4.5 seconds, that's what I can tell you. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes. Dr. Wind Bernadett: What's the conclusion? Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Thank you, Mr. Speaker.]] Now, the representative of the KDNP, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, will be:. What are we protecting with the fence? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, 2018 will certainly be a year in which the phenomenon we call migration, immigration or even recent migration will be strengthened in intensity, and which, in the opinion of the large majority of Hungarian people, the Christian Democratic People's Party, Fidesz, is not a good thing, but a bad thing, even because it is contrary to the fundamental nature of man. It is only so that, while respecting fellow humans, one accepts that many of us are different, that our sense of comfort desires to live with people who have a similar mentality to that of himself. And if you can't do that, you'll defend yourself with a wall or a fence. The fence has become the curse and curse word of the PC speech of the past period, and we believe it is a protection for our values. I would like to say here what, according to the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Christian people, we are defending with the fence during this migration period. First of all, our security, the security of European and Hungarian people, against the masses that are incapable of integration. We also protect the lives of Hungarian and European people, and how much this is needed, unfortunately, it has been painfully shown by the terrorist acts of the past period. So we defend our lives against those who believe that we should be moved to a true faith, and in order to convert ourselves to this true faith, it is not a sin either to extinguish our lives. We protect our women, our daughters; our women, to whom, according to the Christian faith, the man at the altar accepts that I love and will honor you until death do us part. Those who are flooding Europe don't think that way. So let us also protect our family ideal, the family that makes up a community with children born of the love of a man and a woman, and not the family where a man lives with more women, or I could say other models. And then I was talking about what we consider to be Christian values, with which 78 percent of the Hungarian population is identified, even if he is a believing Christian who may not himself be practicing his religion. Let us look at some of these, which we also need to protect. The moral values that are largely included in the Ten Commandments to stop killing, respect your fellow human being, respect your father and mother, and tell the truth, are also protected if, unfortunately, we encounter a phenomenon here in the Hungarian Parliament every day or every week that anointed representatives are not telling the truth. We defend the sanctity of the word in question, as well as our property, so that you don't take away someone else's. Don't humiliate each other, listen patiently, and don't interrupt all this in our culture, as part of our Christian values, just like our rules of conduct, our rules of eating. Yes, we love pork, and we eat it, and we do not want circumstances where our lives may fall prey to this pleasure. We protect equal rights, the honor of work, and not the respect or worship of money above all else. And then let us consider the Christian values that are important to believers. Protecting our churches, as monuments, as sacral places, and I am thinking mainly of the latter; putting the cross on the wall in places where it is appropriate. Our painting, which depicts our saints, our statues, the music of Bach, Handel and the others, which completes our lives; books, literature, I can mention the Bible in particular here, without which our lives would be completely different. We therefore defend all that Europe has accumulated during the two thousand years of Christianity, and the Hungarians have preserved and nursed and have succeeded in the last eight years. There will be an election, there will be a question of fate, a turn of fate, not only for Hungarians but also for Europe, so it is very important that we see these clearly. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the Christian Democrats have also served to help in recent years, which they have been begging for in the Middle East church leaders, Middle Eastern charitable leaders, that is, help to stay in the place, help in the place, and all that the war has destroyed, help in restoring it. By the way, more than 80 percent of the Hungarian people fully agree with this request, and they are actually facing this request, the request of Christian people suffering in the Middle East, and the opposition is against the request of a large majority of Hungarians, more than four-fifths, and it is clear that it is playing from George Soros's sheet music, on the one hand, and on the other hand wants to carry out the order of the bureaucrats in Brussels in Hungary. For this reason, it is worth looking at the points from which I would like to highlight some of the points that have been supported. They support what is included in the Soros plan, so that one million people come to Europe every year and are obliged to distribute it, so that many tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people arrive in Hungary over decades, on a permanent and mandatory basis. [[13.50]] They also support the current opposition to pay EUR 15,000 for immigrants for two years, i.e. HUF 9 million for each migrant. They also support the need to launch a political attack on countries who do not accept this. Thus, honourable Parliament, honourable Member, it can be said that, both with words and with actions, politics, the current opposition, whether outside Parliament or parliament, largely supports the Brussels plan and supports George Soros's plan. But let's see, it's also worth seeing how their words support it, how they support Gergely Christmas, who applied to be a bankrupt at MSZP. He said: "No border fences should be built in any case. Soros activist Wind Bernadett Soros said, "If we start talking about closing the borders, we're not going to get anywhere." [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Soros activists sitting at your house! There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] But Ferenc Gyurcsány, the fallen Prime Minister, who has already destroyed the country once, said: "It is completely pointless to close the border with hermetically. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, who are now shouting [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Yes?]] You, who have stood for Christian values for a long time, your party president or Prime Minister's candidate not only said that instead of the fence, we have a much cheaper and more efficient solution, but also supported Islam by actions, because he visited and celebrated a terrorist organization there, the Grey Wolfs, which is a terrorist organization [[Tamás Sneider: Half a million hits!]] at the time, along with Ali Agca, John carried out an assassination attempt on Paul. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik: Who pays half a million?]] That's all there is to talk about. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that all those who support this plan clearly support György Soros, support immigration, support migration against 80% of Hungarian people. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you personally for the 12-year struggle in which you have held the opposition's often hateful accusations, the fight that you have fought not only on this subject, but also on many other issues, the fight that you have fought over the past nearly one and a half decades. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] I would also like to thank all those pro-government Members who are opposed to this evil plan. I would like to thank the 80 percent Hungarian people for their support and help, who have recognised all that there is no other way to fight George Soros against Brussels than to fight against migration or to defend the plans they want to implement, whether by law or by fence. On the contrary, the other side, the opposition, is doing the reverse because we have seen that they have not voted for the amendment of the Constitution. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] has not been helped in recent months [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Fundamental Law!]] In the years of the referendum. We see that this is what they want in the election campaign as a continuation, and if they go to government...
u2018-02-19-20	Secretary, time's up.
u2018-02-19-21	...and then, we know they're tearing down the fence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-22	The last item in the agenda is the president of the Fidesz Group, Mr Gulyás Gergely, with the title of our current affairs. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The week of the last meeting began for the Parliament during this term, so we have good reason to look back at the four remaining behind us and, in a sense, after this second consecutive government cycle for the eight years left behind. In particular, after what has been said here in the last half hour, according to which everything is wrong, I would like to point out to the members of the opposition who are present, in particular, that if we consider, for example, what results have been achieved in the field of economic policy, then we can say, and the Socialist Group is still in Parliament, that they have had eight years to govern, in their seventh year, the economic recession was 7 percent, economic performance was reduced by 7 percent and unemployment was 12 percent. Compared to this, unemployment is now below 4 per cent and economic growth is above 4 per cent. The central bank base rate is below 1 percent, the interest rates on loans have never been so favourable. While in eight years, between 2002 and 2010, the price of electricity was doubled, the price of gas tripled, the price of gas now decreased by 25 percent in eight years. After that, the promises of a reduction in debts from the socialists are a very interesting election campaign. If you think about what has been achieved with 1 million new citizens in the area of national policy in social policy, and in particular in family policy, in the re-, re- and construction of the family support system, then we think that behind this government, between the four and eight years behind us, there are serious results. I would also like to ask the head of the LMP faction that the quote that was made in a closed session, supposedly taken from me, should be exactly the right thing to do in the future, so don't make it false, because what you quoted, I didn't say anyone who was there, you know. If you look at the report, you can clearly find it, or if you are unable to recall it retroactively for a few hours, I trust this, or if you deliberately make a false statement to the public of the country, since we never used to justify it, you have not given four reasons why we do not support a derogation from the house rules, so I have not done so, and I have indicated that if we want to conduct this debate, we should not do it behind closed doors. Interpreting this as you did is a lack of a minimum of political correctness [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Fidesz will teach me political correctness!]] In many respects, you are the representatives of political correctness, and it would be good if, at least where this is justified, they were indeed correct. We also know and therefore it is a pity to ask the Prime Minister's absence that today the Prime Minister is meeting with the Prime Minister of the state, the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who is currently serving as the Presidency of the European Union, and there he is trying to enforce the Hungarian Government's will in migration policy, as we see that the European Union intends to take the matter of compulsory quotas to a decision by June. We see that all the results that have been achieved in the last eight years can only be preserved if we can continue to guarantee Hungary's safety. If you have not contributed to this in recent years, at least do not criticise the fact that the Prime Minister, regardless of the election campaign, does not seek to represent the Hungarian national interest in this regard, because neither European nor world politics are trying to ensure the security of the country. This is what we have done in recent years, which is why we have built a border fence, which is why we have created a legal border lock next to the physical one, and that is why we have rejected the resettlement quotas without the ceiling, and that is why we are doing everything today. What we see today is that only the parties on the government side can guarantee security. What we see today is that we reject the mandatory quotas without a cap. Unfortunately, it has also become clear that we cannot count on the opposition on these issues, including Jobbik, such as the issue of constitutional amendment. You have not voted in favour of decisions and measures that are key to the protection of this country when you have previously declared the contrary treason. Therefore, I think that if someone wants to see the country's results continue and continue to want security in the country, they can vote for the government parties for the next four years for good reason. That's what we're asking you to do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-24	Once again, Csaba Dömötör has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, The period since 2010 was marked by the struggle for sovereignty. This government, with all its might, wanted Hungary to not be blackmailed and to be its own boss. Since 2010, IMF debt has been repaid, government debt has been reduced, banks accounted for [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hahaha!]] And even special taxes have been imposed by the government. Meanwhile, national wealth has increased, the Hungarian ownership rate in the banking sector and the media is already above 50 percent again, and important bridge posts have been recovered in energy too. So we have taken important steps to prevent this country from being blackmailed. I say this as a kind of precedent because national sovereignty is now in danger of a greater threat than before, and this is immigration. [[14.00]] There is a world view that immigration is a good opportunity, and the representatives of this idea are now trying to break Hungary from several directions, for example, from the direction of international organisations. As we already know, the United Nations wants to adopt a convention that basically defines establishment and migration as fundamental rights and would therefore create legal routes. This package is bleeding from many wounds, and it is dangerous, among other things, because it can also appear as a reference in Brussels legislation and, in this sense, speed up the implementation of resettlement programmes. By the way, the quota programme is still on the negotiating table and would speed up its implementation from summer onwards, which is what the Belgian Prime Minister said. The number of risk factors is increased by the fact that, according to the relevant plans of both the UN and Brussels, serious powers would be conferred on the otherwise completely opaque activist groups, which otherwise organise migration. We mustn't let that happen. And ultimately, the cornerstone of the debate will be the protection of borders. As we know from the press, the High Commissioner of the Council of Europe believes that the Soros type of man should be created. Now, this type of man has nothing to do with the protection of borders, and neither does nation states nor national culture; not because he is fighting for a global, open society. It's the same social engineering as communism, and we don't want it any more than that. If Mrs Bernadett Szél were to debate the existence of this resolution, of this plan, then I have brought you the written resolution in which it is contained, you can take it. This type of dangerous science fiction has killed tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people throughout history. Dear House, In recent years, we have been able to listen to statements from the opposition, see how they voted in decisive moments, and the situation is that we can say that every opposition party supports immigration. [[Márta Demeter: And the establishment?]] Every single opposition party! [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You let them in after all!]] Out with his vote, who did not support the constitutional amendment, who by collecting signatures as party of Ferenc Gyurcsány. That is why we can say that the yellow fence cutter is lying in the pocket of each opposition Member today, and let us not kid ourselves that if they had the opportunity, they would use it immediately. [[Noise, interruptions on the opposition side. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You're the only ones who let them in!]] Under these circumstances, for whom the country's security matters, you can only rely on the government and Fidesz-KDNP. That is why it is good to summarize the directions for future action. We will not allow the UN to impose on us a treaty that would perpetuate migration. We will not allow Brussels to force compulsory resettlement on us. Only we can decide who we live with. We will not allow billions of dollars and groups of money activists to weaken the country's defence capabilities and help illegal migration. We will insist on transparency. And finally, we will not give in to the protection of borders, because border fences are not just a physical barrier, they are protection of all that is important. There are not enough foreign-funded organizations, there are not enough opposition attacks, there are not enough blackmail in Brussels, there are not enough foreign-destructive press articles that would distract us from our goal to preserve Hungary as a Hungarian country. We popped out the homo soviet, we didn't ask for them, we didn't ask for the Soros type of man. This is the country of Hungarians, and we support Hungarian people. April 8th is therefore more than just a normal choice. One day, we can decide on decades. In vain millions of Hungarian people stood up for the country, in consultations, in referendums, in large assemblies if not enough people stood up that day. We cannot allow Hungary to become an immigrant country. We know that we are not alone in this fight, which is why we are counting on the support of all those who care about the country's security. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the future of our families; and in many cases we may think many different things in other matters of life, but one thing: that Hungary is the first in all circumstances. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-26	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-02-19-27	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Bence Rétvári, KDNP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; István Szavay, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: Gábor Vona, Jobbik; Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP; Ákos Hadházy, LMP; István Hollik, KDNP; Márius Révész, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. On Wednesday, Mr Benedek, LMP, submitted a statement after the agenda.
u2018-02-19-28	Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. On this day of Parliament's meeting, the House Committee initiates its departure from the House Rules by saying that the 1868 XLIV, adopted on the issue of ethnic equality, is a Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Ljubomir before deciding on the agenda proposal. LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Act, you can speak for a period of five minutes without any further comments. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by H/1998. can also be found on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 139 votes in favour, two votes against, to a derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, Alexov Ljubomir is now taking the floor before the Serbian minority spokesperson's agenda, in a five-minute period of time, the 1868 XLIV adopted on the issue of ethnic equality. LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of a law. I give the floor to the speaker. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. , Ustaj rod vreme zove, Stresi jaram i okove, Poštovani Predsedniče! Poštovana Skupštino! Mr President, Dear Parliament, I said the first lines of Petőfi's National Song in Serbian. If, as the translator did, we rewrite a keyword of the poem to the concept of my nation, instead of the Hungarian, the poem can address any people who love freedom, who stand up for their own values. Just as the Hungarians at the time of the reform began to progress towards the fulfillment of the national idea, so the other nations in the country followed this example. The creation of the concept of a Hungarian political nation also created the issue of nationality. He commends the wisdom of the politicians of the time for seeking a solution, not with fire and iron, but with the means of law. This year it will be 150 years since the first nationality law was passed in both houses of the Hungarian Parliament, i.e. the XLIV of 1868 on ethnic equality. It's an article of the law. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities considers it important that the commemoration take place in the parliamentary term in which the Hungarian nationalities were re-represented in the National Assembly for the first time after a long time. The Act of 1868 was the first law in Hungary that sought to settle relations between the state and nationalities and, as such, could not have been born without precedent. In the last phase of the 1848-49 War of Independence, the National Assembly recognised the rights of Hungarian nationalities in a resolution. In 1861, the issue of nationality was once again on the agenda of the Parliament, but it was no longer discussed because of the dissolution of the Parliament. The 1868 XLIV on ethnic equality. a law article, in the preparation of which Romanian, Serbian, Slovak and Saxon representatives were present, followed the principles of the era, thus regulating the nationality language used in the municipalities and counties, allowing anyone to deal with their lawsuits in their mother tongue, ensuring that all citizens were able to submit submissions to the municipal, county and state authorities in their mother tongue, and that they could speak in their mother tongue at the parish and county meetings, and that the right of association was also formulated as a new element for any national. The acceptance and judgment of the adopted nationality law was not uniform. The minority leaders did not want this, they sought full equality and autonomy, while some of the Hungarian representatives were of the opinion that the law would give too many concessions to nationalities. [[14.10]] Then, from a legislative point of view, the regulation of nationality rights became more appropriate or restrictive, depending on the current policy stance. In particular, restrictive practice became a growing trend after 1875. Historical experience shows that it is not enough to improve the legislator's intention, that legislation must also take place in a timely manner in order to have a positive impact on everyday case-law and to gain acceptance among stakeholders. Due to the known historical events, it was necessary to wait until the change of regime for the resurgence of civil and political rights after 1989, and the need for freedom in society, to change for nationalities as well. Renewed Constitution of the Republic 68. Article 1 (1) of the Act states that the national and ethnic minorities living in the Republic of Hungary are part of the power of the people: factors forming the state. And paragraph A (2) stated that, on the basis of the principle of popular sovereignty, the Republic of Hungary protects national and ethnic minorities. It ensures their collective participation in public life, the care of their own culture, the use of their mother tongue, the language education, the right to use their own language. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the basis of the more general principles of the Constitution and international law, Parliament adopted LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. a law celebrating its 25th anniversary this year. The virtues of the law include, among other things, the increase in the number of communities recognised as nationalities from 7 to 13, the establishment of a minority self-government system, the development of nationality institutions, and the provision of budgetary resources to this end by the government. The provisions of the law slowed the assimilation. We are pleased to be able to say all this in Parliament as a minority spokesperson, and that, with the permission of the Speaker of the House to celebrate these anniversaries, the conference will take place in the upper chamber of Parliament on 19 March 2018, which the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities invites and awaits you. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-19-30	I would like to thank Mr Alexov Lyubomir for his speech and allow me, fellow Members, to thank all the ethnic advocates and the minority committee for their first four years of work at the same time. I hope that there have been many positive lessons for all of us, for them as well as for us and for their communities. I wish you, advocates, similarly to us, successful elections. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that all Members and spokespersons from 199 Members of Parliament and 13 spokespersons have submitted their own and/or family's declarations of property within the deadline. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Speakers and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to the Parliament on the appointment of the President of the Board of Budgets. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2018-02-19-31	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Articles 9 (3) (k) and 44 (4) of the Fundamental Law and the 2011 CXCIV on Hungary's economic stability. Law 18 Mr Árpád Kovács was appointed President of the Board of Budgets for a period of six years, with effect from 10 January 2018. Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 1 (k) and Article 44 (4) and the 2011 CXCIV on Hungary's economic stability. Law 18 Mr Árpád Kovács was appointed President of the Board of Budgets for a period of six years, with effect from 10 January 2018. Sincerely, János Áder. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2018-02-19-32	Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate President Árpád Kovács on behalf of all of us and on my behalf, and wish him good luck in continuing his work. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the members of the House Committee have agreed with the proposed working schedule of the 2018 Spring Session, so that we do not have to decide on this under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act. The working schedule will be available to my fellow Members on the website. I would also like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which is also available to interested parties on the IT network. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on proposals for a derogation from house rules. In derogation from the house rules, the House Committee initiates the National Assembly to act on the importance of the Torda religious law of 1568 and on the day of religious freedom, T/1959. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by T/1959/2/2. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules, as has been said above. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 144 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention, to a derogation from the house rules. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 16:16 p.m., the consolidated debate on the bill, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, The House Committee, in its departure from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to change in Hungary! Reality behind propaganda, or save the future of general health care and local government, secure livelihoods for municipal workers! V/1997. In the course of a political debate initiated by the European Parliament, move away from the house by holding the political debate 14 days before the date of the submission of the motion, starting on 19 February 2018. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by V/1997/1. can be found on the website. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules in this case as well. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 148 votes in favour, the House unanimously agreed to a derogation from the house rules. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion tabled by the President initiates the Parliament to discuss the submission of the aforementioned debate day within a four-hour time frame. At the request of the MSZP Group, the Decision on certain house rules 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2018-02-19-33	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the time frame increase, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling of which a total of 90 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group; 25 minutes for the LMP Group; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2018-02-19-34	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the time frame described by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of the MSZP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal by 119 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention in the time frame. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to act as XLV of 1994 on war care. T/19773. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. This proposal is made by T/19773/3. You can know it on the website. [[14.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal by 146 votes to one, with no abstentions. Accordingly, the proposals for amendments can be tabled today at 16 p.m. 20 p.m.; the consolidated debate on the bill will take place today, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Deviation from the House Rule put forward in the power of Presidential office initiates the Parliament to issue an H/19861 on the withdrawal from Poland against the pressure of Brussels. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. The relevant proposal is H/1981/13. You can know it on the website. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not accept a derogation from the house rules by 117 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The author initiated, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, that the Parliament would negotiate in an exceptional procedure the H/1981 mentioned above. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiates the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. I'm asking you if you'll accept H/1981. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal to negotiate in exceptional proceedings by 117 votes to 29, without abstention. In line with this decision, proposals for amendments can be submitted at 5 p.m. today; a consolidated debate on the bill, a decision on the summary amendment proposal and a final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the 2017 CXCI on the amendment of certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system. T/1962 amending Act No. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure was taken, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The procedure is similar to the previous one. I ask the House whether it accepts T/1962. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal by 117 votes to 27, with one abstention. As a result of this decision, the proposals for amendments can be submitted at 5:24 p.m. today; the draft bill will be consolidated, the summary amendment proposal will be decided and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, The derogation from the House Rule put forward by the President initiates the Parliament to act as LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity. T/1963 amending Act No. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. The proposal for this is made in T/1983/2. can be found on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not contribute by 118 votes in favour, 7 against, 24 abstentions. The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the above mentioned T/1983. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government will initiate the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure is taken, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I ask the House whether it will agree to negotiate the proposal in an exceptional procedure as set out in the motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has agreed to negotiate the exceptional procedure by 117 votes in favour, 6 against and 23 abstentions. Accordingly, today the amendment proposals can be submitted at 5:26 p.m.; the consolidated debate on the bill, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The author initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures that the Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the T/1968 on the development of facilities necessary for the implementation of the Hungarian Open ATP World Tour tennis tournament in Budapest. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure was taken, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I ask the House whether it accepts T/1968. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was supported by 118 votes in favour, 26 against and one abstention. Thus, the proposals for amendments can be submitted today at 5:28 p.m.; the draft bill will be consolidated, the draft amendment proposal will be decided and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Group of the Fidesz Group proposed that at its meeting on 19-20 February 2018 the T/18783 on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions. There shall be no discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal and a decision on the summary amendment and the final vote. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House agrees with the amendment. The Fidesz Group also proposed that the Parliament's meeting on Tuesday 20 February 2018 should start at 8:00, and that the Parliament's decision be taken at no earlier than 16:00 on Tuesday 20 February 2018. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands as well. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority agrees. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the H/1986. The debate on the motion for a resolution shall take place on the Tuesday, 20 February 2018 day of the Parliament's meeting, following the speeches before the agenda, as item 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House also agrees with this proposal. The Fidesz Group also suggested that T/1968 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the Hungarian Open ATP World Tour tennis tournament in Budapest. on the Tuesday, 20 February 2018 meeting of the National Assembly for the consolidated debate of the bill No.3 on the standing next to Poland against pressure from Brussels, H/19861. Following a consolidated debate on the proposal for a decision. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote hand lift. [[Vote.]] The visible majority of the House has adopted the proposal. [[14.30]] The Fidesz Group still proposed that the 2017 CXCI amending certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system. T/1962 amending Act No. The T/1968 related to the implementation of the Hungarian Open ATP World Tour tennis tournament in Budapest on Tuesday, 20 February. Following a consolidated debate on the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the motion. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/1959 on the importance of the Torda Religious Law of 1568 and on the Day of Religious Freedom. The joint debate of the legislative proposal No.2 shall take place immediately before the decisions of the Parliament on Tuesday 20 February 2018. Anyone who agrees with that should also vote with a raise of hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that if the Parliament is LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity. T/1963 amending Act No. Bill No. 1 and the 1994 XLV on war care. T/19773. In the context of the legislative proposal No.18, it contributes to the derogation from the provisions of the Decree-Law, to the consolidated debates of the legislative proposals on Monday 19 February 2018 at the National Assembly's meeting,, H/18293 on the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. Following the negotiation of a series of proposals for a decision, the following order shall be taken: first, T/1983. Bill No. 1 and then T/19773 for the second time. A proposal for a regulation should be discussed. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the motion. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that if the Parliament is LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity. T/1963 amending Act No. In relation to the legislative proposal No.3 does not contribute to the derogation from the provisions of the Decree-Law, but contributes to the examination of the legislative proposals in exceptional proceedings, to the consolidated debates of the legislative proposals on Tuesday, 20 February 2018 at the Parliament's meeting on the issue of standing with Poland H/19861. After discussion of the proposal for a decision. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the meeting of the Parliament on 19-20 February 2018 be added to the meeting on Wednesday 21 February 2018, which should be held on the day of the meeting. Reality behind propaganda, or save the future of general health care and local government, secure livelihoods for municipal workers! V/1997. A political debate was held. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I would like to announce that, at the initiative of the MSZP Group, the agenda for our meeting starting today is added to the T/1959 on the protection of a fair procedure and the transparency of public aid in order to eliminate the enrichment of fidesz oligarchs from public money. 1 and XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. T/1994 on the amendment of Act T/1974 on the need for a binding Prime Minister-designate debate. By deciding to include legislative proposals in a series of articles. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee, B/19230, entitled The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. I ask the House whether it agrees with this motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 114 votes to 28, 28 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Committee of Culture to ask B/18947 on the work of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and on the general situation of Hungarian science. for the negotiation and decision of the submission. Please vote now, by machine. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 115 votes in favour and 28 votes in favour, without abstention. Dear Parliament, No decision on a personal proposal will now be taken. It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Pest Central District Court is 25. Bpk.13.172/2017/2-II Mr Ákos Hadházy applied for the suspension of the immunity of the LMP Member of Parliament in the case of a private indictment. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/1987. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of Members of Parliament, on which Parliament decided without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Hargitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal, within a maximum of five minutes.
u2018-02-19-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At today's session, the immunity committee again dealt with the immunity of Congressman Hadházy; I say that again because I spoke here before the Parliament on his behalf. Dr. András Patyi turned to the court as a victim and as an injured representative of the National University of Public Service. The court sent these documents to the prosecutor's office because it was also suggested in the court that there might have been a criminal offence in connection with the speech of Congressman Hadházy. This speech took place on 27 April last year at ATV, so it was in public as well as on a web portal, Corrupcioinfo.hu. The Member was moved to say that the University of Public Service had made an EU application alongside many others, and the Member considered that there had been over-pricing during this tender and the implementation of the tender, that unnecessary expenditure had been made, and that his sentences had been unwarranted, which had been said on ATV, and that he connected this with András Patyi's activities in the National Election Committee with a bold leap. I quote your sentence literally: András Patyi is involved in thefts, and it is very clear that he is assisting, or at least, and it is very understandable why he wants to block referendums. So these were the speeches that led Andras Patyi to go to court. As I said, the D.A.'s office has been through these files. On 27 September last year, the prosecutor's office returned the documents to the court by saying that they did not consider it possible to prosecute the public. [[14.40]] That's how the case came before the immunity committee. At the meeting of the immunity committee, the Member did not attend, but sent us his position in writing that he had drawn in good faith conclusions on the facts which were not contested in the complaint. [[Intruder from the pro-government benches: Blessed soul!]] He also warns the immunity committee that he hopes that the immunity committee will follow his unbroken practice, and as a private indictment, he will not issue his immunity right. The congressman calculated well, and the immunity committee, with a majority vote, suggested to Parliament that they do not grant the Member's immunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-36	I will ask Mr Ákos Hadházy if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Of course he wants to live. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, I would ask that this House, the opposition and the pro-government voters, also suspend my immunity with respect and force. I am convinced that András Patyi wants to hide behind my immunity. [[György Balla: Two more months and it's over! Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] If he really wanted to go before a court of law, he would have reported me not for defamation, but for defamation, and not for a civil trial to suspend my immunity, we could definitely meet in court. Obviously, András Patyi didn't want that, so he chose this method. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the NAV detective's office is investigating this case. I believe that I have expressly stated that there is an abundance of overpriced, unnecessary and unjustified purchases in the 30 billion-dollar acquisition. Otherwise, I am not the only one saying that the European Union's investigators have also asked very serious questions in this matter. And I would definitely like to be able to prove that in court at least at this level. I will do everything in my power to bring this matter to justice and bring the matter to justice of András Patyi. I would be very happy to do this in court, and I urge this House to suspend my immunity. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-38	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the House whether it suspends the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has not suspended the immunity of a Member by 30 votes in favour, 106 against and four abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:43 p.m., we're moving on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, The ELIOS case, or the Prime Minister's son-in-law with the title offshore companies and billionaire extraprofit. At the request of the competent minister, Mr János Fónagy State Secretary will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, I am very sorry that I cannot ask this question or the question expressed in the interpellation to the candidate for Prime Minister Fidesz, because it is a personal matter and personal concern, because what happened was that the European Anti-Fraud Office found involvement in a criminal organisation with István Tiborcz, the son-in-law of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister often says granite-solid sentences, such as that he does not deal with business matters, which is a rather steep claim, especially when we see that his son-in-law is very fond of business matters, because if we look at István Tiborcz's way of life, we can see that he started this business at a very young age, and as a starting businessman, he immediately surrounded himself with offshore companies, and we can also find the owners hiding in Elios's predecessors in Cyprus and Virgin Islands. He probably didn't accept his father-in-law's warnings then that Fidesz was fighting offshore knights. This newly founded company then began to destroy the public procurement market for mysterious reasons, just after Fidesz came to power. Minister Lázár himself admitted that he had personally planned the project of Elios in Hódmezővásárhely, together with István Tiborcz. With such supporters, success in public procurement was clearly guaranteed. In the world of national cooperation, it is true that if you have big supporters, then money, profit, is not lost. He didn't wait for himself, because in 2014 and 2015 he received an extra HUF 1.5 billion from Prime Minister through the head of the family. Dear Secretary of State, I will expect an answer from you, since the candidate for Prime Minister Fidesz has not come forward. The problem is that, according to the European Anti-Fraud Office, fraud, or criminal activity, could have happened, and the problem is that Hungary will be costing up to HUF 13 billion, and this will have to be repaid. I would like to ask you, if you can answer, although it is difficult enough that your master is not present at the moment: why is István Tiborcz, a member of the Prime Minister's family, looking for offshore companies and a series of frauds involving public funds? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2018-02-19-40	Before I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to ask Mr. Group leader to give respect to the Secretary of State in the future, who is still older than you, to be his father, and also to the Prime Minister. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Government. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-41	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unreality, even when told often, remains untrue. You are well aware that the OLAF investigation, which you mentioned and which gave rise to this question, concerns calls for proposals for a public lighting programme launched and later conducted during the Bajna government. These were already investigated once by the Hungarian authorities in view of OLAF's previous investigation and previous claims. By the way, there was no objection to the investigation, and there is no objection, and the Hungarian Government is facing all legal inquiries and has complied with all legitimate requests for investigation. In view of this, I am obliged to reiterate that this OLAF report, which has been very consciously addressed during this campaign period, has not been examined, since it has already been done once, but I consider it a repeated campaign action and campaign report for campaign purposes in Brussels, with which Brussels is interfering with the elections in Hungary. This investigation was scheduled for 2014 before the elections, and they are doing the same now. The method has not changed, its content and purpose have not changed. This case, as I mentioned, has already been investigated once by all competent authorities, and now these accusations are being repeated. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is trying to attack Prime Minister, and you and everyone involved in this case know precisely that the majority of the period covered by the OLAF report was not owned by the company you mentioned, but by the Public Machine. These facts have been raised by the re-examination, and Members who represent this inquiry in Parliament as an interpellation, sometimes as a question, and sometimes as before the agenda cannot change it. The facts are facts and the unfounded facts remain unfounded. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2018-02-19-42	I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is also a fact that dozens of cities suddenly remembered that their public lighting should be modernised, and dozens of cities remembered that they were choosing the company of the Prime Minister's son-in-law to carry out this assignment. It is also true that there were at least personal overlaps between the organisations preparing applications and Elios. And it is also a fact that in 2014-2015 István Tiborcz took an extra HUF 1.5 billion out of this company, despite the fact that he owned the Public Machine. I was not given an answer as to how the Prime Minister, the government, influenced the evaluation of the applications in the Elios case, and the relations that the members of the government maintained with Elios Zrt. with its senior officials, what information the Prime Minister and the members of the government had on the fraudulent use of European Union development resources and public funds in the Elios case in a manner that could be met with the conditions of organised crime. I didn't get an answer, so I can't accept the answer to the interpellation. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-44	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 102 votes to 18, with no abstentions. I'm asking the people in the box not to take pictures, yes, it's you. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Then what exactly is the difference between Juncker and the Orbán-migrant? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-02-19-45	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Hungarian voters need to learn new technical terms if they want to adapt to the forest of government slips and lies. So far, you have consciously shattered every concept that exists, the economic immigrant, the illegal border crossing, the refugee, and you have not even talked directly about those protected. Most of the time, of course, these concepts were not even mentioned, since there was a magic word that could be drawn to everything: a migrant. Then one day we learned that the Fidesz government had taken in over 3,500 migrants in three years. Then the divine miracle takes place, and even Szilárd Németh immediately begins to talk about the protected ones and the Geneva Convention. All of a sudden, you don't just talk about the "supplier," but you don't talk about the "supplier." [[György Balla: Do you have a phobia?]] , instead they use the term "encouraged." They act as if by using the word "encouraged" they can already bridge the spiral of lies they've been put into. If we look at the asylum law, it turns out that the protected one is the weaker category, that is, the refugee is in need of greater protection. A person who does not meet the conditions for recognition as a refugee may be granted immunity, but there is a risk that he will be seriously harmed if he returns to his country of origin. So you lied about that, too. If the EU were to send only people who were fit for refugee status and you were to accept only those who were protected, then the EU's delegates would need protection more. Moreover, despite the constant chanting of the Geneva Convention, the same criteria apply in the case of asylum seekers sent from the EU and arriving at our borders. Mr. Secretary. Because of the above, I am forced to ask what exactly is the difference between the 3500 people who were admitted by Viktor Orbán and the 1300 asylum seekers whom the EU wants to send to carry out the asylum procedure. Do you maintain, in the light of the developments, that the migrant who has reached the Hungarian border cannot be in danger because he has already passed through a number of safe countries? On these specific issues, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State's answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-46	I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since the start of the migrant crisis, we Hungarians have distinguished those in need of protection from economic or livelihood migrants who come to Europe, otherwise safe countries, because they want European, especially German, living standards and prosperity. We don't consider them refugees, because they're not. Helping those in need of protection is evident to us, always has been, but we do not ask for illegal immigrants. While the machine implementing the Soros plan and the Brusselsers are constantly accusing Hungary of our lack of solidarity, we are heartless, the truth is the opposite. The Hungarians have a heart, we have protected those who need it from the beginning, especially women and children, if they really come from a war area and come to us legally. We help everyone who really needs it and obeys our laws. Anyone who regularly arrives at the border crossings and respects our laws in transit zones and really needs protection will receive the right help and care in Hungary. This has been and will continue to be the case. We have not allowed illegal arrivals of economic migrants, and we will not let them in again. Of course, Hungarian laws are strict. The defense only goes as long as it's really needed. Those who no longer need protection must leave the country. The problem with Brussels' immigration policy and the compulsory quota is that we are dealing with migrants who have illegally crossed borders who do not need any protection and who are, in fact, economic immigrants, Member. Hungary respects its international obligations in all respects. Today, opposition politicians who really want to turn Hungary into an immigrant country are criticising the government. You did not vote for the amendment of the Constitution after the referendum, along with the Jobbik faction, even though you know that the country needs it. During the national consultation, the Hungarians expressed in greater numbers and in greater agreement than ever that they did not want the Soros plan. Hungarians want strong border protection and decisive action against those who organise and support immigration. The government will continue to do so in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-48	I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-02-19-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, if the 1300 people that Brussels has sent here are only economic immigrants, then there is no problem, because Hungary only has to conduct the asylum procedure in this case. [[Németh Szilárd István: You know they're not from Brussels! You're lying!]] and because economic immigrants are not real refugees, they can be deported at the border, so not one of the 1300 people will be left here in Hungary if the Hungarian authorities make the decision. That's what he said. By the way, you voted down the proposal seven times, which included not only the initiative you proposed, but also the introduction of settlement bonds once and for all. Because it must also be said that you have allowed more than 20,000 people into Hungary for money. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying!]] This is the reality, although Szilárd Németh does not understand it, but this is still the reality, and there is a high probability that this program will be restarted after the elections. That's why we need a change of government. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-50	I understand you didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 102 votes to 18, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why is not every family and every child worth the same to the government? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2018-02-19-51	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary! Walking around the country, we hear everywhere that people are dissatisfied with the government's family policy. Families with one or two children, parents raising their children alone, feel that they do not matter, are not worth as much to the government as families in which three or more children are raised. People do not understand why there are first- and second-class families for the government, why the government does not treat them equally, no matter how many children are raised and how many parents take care of their children. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] They rightly feel unfair that almost all support focuses only on large families and only on families in good financial condition, while many feel that they need to raise one or two children in deprivation. Yes, we too see that this family support system is incredibly unfair; it is not only unfair, but it has not fulfilled its expectations. The government's undisclosed goal was to encourage childbearing, even beyond strength, with the support of many children. But this effort didn't work out for the government. If we look at the 2011 census, the 2016 microcensor data, we see that the number of families with at least three children has decreased, and their proportion has not been increased. [[15.00]] Birth numbers stagnate and even fewer children were born at home last year, while a third more children are born abroad, one in six children are now born abroad. This is why not only the failed family policy can be held responsible, but also the government's anti-family economic policy for seven years, which has driven hundreds of thousands of young people away with low wages. Today we are 20-25 percent behind in wages from the Visegrád countries, and every 10 workers are officially poor. Fidesz is fond of referring to popular will, and most people disagree with the distinction between families and want equal treatment and a fair support system. Not something that gives a lot to a few, but something that's enough for many. This is represented by the LMP. That's why we say that every family, every child counts. According to the LMP, it is therefore necessary to increase the family allowance to 30 per cent of all families and to increase the family allowance to 45 per cent for single-parent families, to compensate for the family tax allowance, to double the first child benefit and to extend the allowance until the completion of higher education studies. It is therefore necessary to give special support to single - parent families and to curb their poverty. So my question is why all families and children are not worth the same to the government. I would like to ask you for your unpropagised answer, and I would like to stress that before you argue that no, the government did not help single-parent families, and that LMP would not eliminate the family tax relief, we would simply make it more just. And the CSOK wouldn't be eliminated by the LMP. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2018-02-19-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2018-02-19-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I suggest we move from the world of demagogy to the world of reality, of fact. Let us conclude that children are the most important thing for the Hungarian government, and we support responsible childbearing and responsible child rearing by as many means as possible. I do not quite understand what the congresswoman is talking about. Consider some examples. At the time when your former party was on the government, the amount of family support was less than HUF 1000 billion. Do you know, Congresswoman, how much we're spending on family support right now? This is already HUF 2000 billion, so we doubled the amount spent on family support in eight years. Consider another example. When your former party was in government, there was no home creation program, even the Socpol was completely eliminated. They took her third year away from the mothers. Compared to this, we have introduced a home-building programme that has not yet been used in Hungary, and so far has been able to support the creation of 66,000 families, regardless of whether one or two children are raised, single-parent or two-parent families are all covered by the home-building programme. Let's take another example. When your former party was in government position, there was no family tax relief for families with one or two children. Do you know, Congresswoman, how much was the ridiculous amount of family tax relief? For families with three children, it was 4,000 forints a month. Do you know, Congresswoman, how much a big family gets today as a family tax reduction? A sum of 100 thousand HUF per month net. Compared to this, we have introduced family tax incentives for single children and for two children, and this year we have even again increased the family tax relief for two children, so that we can double the previous amount in four years. When your former party was in government, mothers had no opportunity at all to work and raise children at the same time, because they were punished by this system at that time, punishing mothers in a material sense, as they did when children were born into a family within three years in a rapid succession. This has been changed by the Gyed extra in 2014, since then we have given the opportunity to work and support the family at the same time, as well as to have children in a quick succession with families who still receive all family support. So I ask you, whose family policy is exclusional, whose family policy distinguishes families and families from each other. As for the results, I think we should learn to interpret the data there, not just read it. If you could interpret the data, you would know that you should not be looking at birth numbers for a population that has been running out for 36 years, but at the desire to have children. This figure, however, increased by 20 percent in just five years. So this is a very, very serious result. If we look at the children or citizens who are registered abroad, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you include the newly registered, newly nationalized adult Hungarian citizens. I think that changes the conclusions that you misjudge. As for the future and your party, in which you are currently seated, you are not trying to distribute, but to loot. You don't want to give more, you want to give less. To tell you the truth, I can't understand why families need to be taken away from home creation, why families need to be deprived of the opportunity to create homes that do not want social housing but want to live in their own homes, where they want to live, where they don't want to live, but they want to build their own homes on their own. I'm thinking about the 66,000 families we've been able to help with the home creation program and the ones we're still going to help. That's what we'll do after 2018. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-54	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-02-19-55	I do not accept the answer, Mr President, because you are asking me to interpret the data and I am asking you to interpret the situation. Explain the situation where there is now, at the moment, an eviction moratorium and families with small children are being put on the street. The government is unable to implement the existing laws at all. And when civil society organisations take action against this, they represent, act themselves, and then they remain silent and are unable to make a decision about it. So I suggest that you interpret the situation.The family allowance has not been increased since 2008, so this is the family-friendly government. LMP will increase the family allowance by 45% for single - parent families and 30 percent for single - parent families. Out of the 136 billion CSOK we will leave 80 billion in the CSOK programme, but we will build social housing out of this HUF 50 billion and support local governments in this. This means that 10,000 apartments will be built each year, which can provide a home for families with children. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] With our new three-key tax system, the wage increase will leave 26,000 forints [[The president's ringing again.]] In addition to the minimum wage, and 30,000 forints at least...
u2018-02-19-56	Congresswoman, you're out of time. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman has announced a programme, and we were expecting an answer from you. Dear Parliament, Since Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 17 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry and János Halász, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What does the UN's draft migration plan mean for Hungary? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2018-02-19-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. When the mass migration crisis in 2015 was successfully managed by the Hungarian government by building the fence, some people thought that this problem was solved once and for all. However, the foresight felt that this was not a one-time exceptional event, but a first act of a big problem that lasted for years or decades. CHAPTER XXI The Balkan route of population migration in the century was closed thanks to the government's decisive action. However, the debate has continued between pro-immigration and national self-determination believers. In the last few years, we have become accustomed to Brussels regularly wanting to tell us who to live with, and we say that we do not want any of this. We tell you that we want to leave a Hungarian Hungary to our children. In contrast to the attacks in Brussels, the Hungarian government, together with the V4 today, strongly resists. You could say that after the southern front, we're holding the west front. However, this debate has recently risen to a new level. After Brussels and some international organisations, the UN seems to have joined the open borders and immigration policy interest group. It does not require political insight, we can conclude that the Soros migration plan is now being prepared in the UN. According to the UN proposal known to us, all European countries would be required to introduce migrants, break down the physical border barrier, overlook border crossings and even build a certain migration route, safe. [[15.10]] In my opinion, the proposal in itself is terrifying to all those who remember the events of 2015. However, the UN's proposal goes beyond 2015 because it sends a very dangerous message or wants to make it acceptable in the world. The message says that wherever you were born, you have the right to choose where to live. However, this striking message can also mean the end of the European civilisation we know today. We know that hundreds of millions of people live in the world today under conditions that would move towards Europe at any time in the hope of a better life. On the basis of the UN's proposal, you may feel that you have the right to do so. If we can't stop this completely insane idea, tens of millions of people will be on their way tomorrow with their fundamental rights. Instead of Nigeria or Yemen, they want to live somewhere in Europe or Hungary. This goes against everything we Hungarians think about protecting our country, protecting our Christian culture and our own sovereignty. Dear Minister, I think it is very important that we speak about this issue honestly and openly. That is why I ask: what does the UN migration plan mean for Hungary? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2018-02-19-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In this New York declaration, the United Nations decided to develop a global migration package and a global asylum package, the first reading of which was presented to the Member States on 5 February and is intended to be adopted in December this year, following a series of intergovernmental conferences. If someone reads through the first presentation, he clearly sees that an extremely pro-immigration document has been created which lacks any balance and which clearly ignores all the facts and experiences that we have gathered here in Europe over the last two, two and a half years. If UN employees who prepared the document had taken into account that in the last two and a half years in Europe 27 acts of terrorism were committed which were perpetrators of persons with a migration background, if they had taken into account that 330 people lost their lives and 1,300 were injured in these acts of terrorism, then they would probably not have compiled such things as are found in this document. We are also debating the starting point of the UN Global Migration Package, which sets out that migration can be a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development. Well, we don't agree with that at all. We believe that migration is bad, that migration is a threat to Europe and that it is a threat to European nations. This document says that we are committed to promoting and ensuring safe, regulated and orderly migration, because this is good for everyone. Not in our opinion. This is not good for everyone, it is not good for anyone, so migration must be stopped at last rather than encouraged. So as long as the UN believes in this document that migration is good and unstoppable, we believe that migration is bad, dangerous and not only must be stopped, but also that migration processes can be stopped even if they are mass. Hungary proved this by helping the Visegrád countries to stop the aggressive immigrant population at the southern border of Hungary of the previous 100,000. Ladies and gentlemen, The UN document also states that we must refrain from reversing migrants at sea and on land and instead increase reception capacity. It's quite amazing, it's an incredibly extreme pro-immigration statement. Hungary considers this to be the opposite, and we must reject this sentence, this whole world of thought, as strongly as possible, from the point of view of the security of the Hungarian people. And we think that a country is a country until it can protect its own borders. We reject, in the strongest possible terms, the proposal or the request for such self-destruction, and under no circumstances will we carry it out. Honourable Congressman, It is also known to you that the Hungarian Government has considered, for some time, that it might, like the United States, withdraw from this negotiation process, and we have finally decided, following consultations with the Visegrád and Central European countries, to stay in the negotiation process. We are preparing our own proposal, which is contrary to the UN proposal, and we are trying to reach an agreement at the end that meets security criteria instead of encouraging migration. Migration must be stopped! Thank you very much for asking, thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-60	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-61	Thank you very much, Minister. Of course, I accept the answer, and on the part of the Fidesz fraction, we absolutely support our strong position. But in any case, I must say that we cannot rest completely, because as a basic problem, we can see that unfortunately there is no consensus between the Hungarian parliamentary parties in rejecting pro-immigration policy, and let me give you an example of this from my own constituency. A few weeks ago, it occurred to me that in the bankrupt Ikarus industrial park, organizations linked to Soros would either buy or rent the area to carry out their activities, which the locals, of course, protested against. The local government has also adopted a decision to reject this matter. And interestingly, despite all appearances that opposition parties are now trying to show to the outside world, they did not vote in favour of the resolution, so neither the MSZP, DK, the Együttt, nor the representatives of LMP voted in favour of this. This shows that in stopping immigration people can still rely only on Fidesz, because Hungary is the first for us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Why is the state winning on families using natural gas? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. János Fónagy State Secretary responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It's just that the Prime Minister has to answer my questions to you, but I know you're a professional, so I'm sure you'll be able to answer my questions. [[Intercoms, noise.]] Although let me make a sound to a sadness because I was just sitting here with the airtight one, and now I don't see it anywhere, and it's always a great pleasure for me. [[Adam Mirkóczki: This is not a great pleasure.]] if I can hear his comments. [[György Balla: I'll help you.]] It's just that the case you've been building over the years, that balloon you've blown up, it's been popping out in the last few days. I have sued for three years to get the data that proves that in 2013-14, not only did the market conditions justify a reduction in the price of gas, but it turns out that you were also profiting from it. More than HUF 100 billion was made by MET Zrt. owned by István Garancsi. Hungarian families were damaged in the pocket of their owners and by about 14 thousand forints during these two years. The gas could have been so much cheaper if market prices had been followed by the official price determination at that time. And it turned out, too, but earlier on, when the oil price fell in 2015, you did not lower the price of the gas for consumers, and this process continues to this day. About HUF 22,000 was taken out of the pockets of Hungarian families only in 2016. Overall, it can be said that nearly 70,000 forints were taken out of consumers' pockets during this time period. You could have written more on it, you know, on that little orange box they prescribed on the gas bills. This is the money that the Hungarian families don't have now. This may also be one of the reasons why more than 100,000 consumers are now turned off from some kind of service this year. [[15.20]] Dear Secretary of State, That is why I am very curious that, if the market conditions are going to be this way, if the ugly multi, E.ON also says that the price of gas could be reduced... although now the electricity commissioner may be able to prevent this from interfering with the Hungarian elections. So without me interfering in the process of Hungarian elections, I would like to know when it will be possible for Hungarian families to have to pay less gas bills, because market conditions justify this, which is already said by all experts. Why doesn't the state want to push prices down here, why doesn't the state want to enforce its position in the competition? I mean, whether there's price control or not, state companies can give energy for whatever they want, but they don't give it any cheaper. Will you finally support our proposals for a fair price reduction? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, During our governance from 2010, we consider the reduction to be one of the most significant social policy successes and therefore deserve a sentence for what has been done before. Before 2010, socialist governments have tripled the price of gas and double the price of electricity. Compared to their wages, in 2010 Hungarian families paid the most for gas and electricity in the European Union, households spent a quarter of their income and half their lower incomes on overhead. This has been changed when we started or implemented a reduction in the cost of electricity, natural gas and district heating in 2012 and 13, the main point of which is that consumers' prices for electricity, natural gas and district heating are uniformly, without any band boundaries, across borders. We've reduced it. [[István Szilárd Németh returns to the Chamber. György Balla to Dr. Bertalan Tóth: he's back.]] As a result, electricity, gas and district heating prices have been reduced by nearly the quarter since 2013. Using the public of Parliament, I ask the Hungarian population, please the Hungarian families to look at their electricity and gas bills. Look at how much they paid and how much they paid before 2012 in recent years! [[Noise.]] I understand the suggestion made by the Member, which tells us to take market risks into pricing. Currently, according to the data of February 18, you have also worked with fresh data on the second lowest gas supply for retail consumers and access to electricity at the third most favourable average price in the European Union. We are convinced that the reduction of the rent will still protect Hungarian families, who have saved more than 1200 billion forints in their energy and utility bills. Under sectoral legislation on the universal service of natural gas, the setting of official prices is based on justified costs. The calculation of justified costs is based on corporate numbers, corporate statements, and numbers regularly controlled and controlled by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. So it's not a power issue, it's not a political issue, it's corporate facts, and it's the admission of corporate facts to the official price after official control. This system ensures and I believe that it will continue to ensure that consumers pay only the costs incurred in their supply and that any reductions in energy delivery prices are taken into account in price regulation. Of course, this should include changes and security of supply. What you are now using as an argument is the data of E.ON, and I would like to point out to the attention of this House and the general public that E.ON only offers this discount to large users, nor can E.ON provide electricity to the average retail consumer at a more favourable price than the state-owned national public utilities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-66	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Congressman, I'm asking you to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Then again, I would like to start with facts, because in fact you acknowledged in your reply that in 2012-13, rather, you started to lower the price of energy, including the price of gas. Then this also includes the fact that in 2010, 2011 and 2012, I liked to increase the price of energy sources, which is a matter of fact. And you didn't deny my claim that they have been buying gas at a cheaper price than it has been since 13 and they won't give it to the Hungarian families. [[György Balla: We froze the public with our first decision. István Szilárd Németh: Not true, my friend.]] In a word, you didn't say that wasn't true. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz, including György Balla: Then I say it is not true. István Szilárd Németh: You're lying! Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And if Hungary is the first for you, then why must there be a second and third in Europe? Let the gas be the cheapest for Hungarian families, if the market makes it possible! Accept our proposals. Thank you. I don't accept the answer. [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-02-19-68	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 20 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior, asking for forgiveness for the biggest and most expensive scam of the century. It's an address. This is for Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2018-02-19-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is true that you have lied from billions of public money with a noble simplicity over the last three years. They had nothing but the fight against successful immigration, and there was no tax forint that they could not practically spend on this propaganda. There was a three-pronged password 24 hours a day, a technical border lock, a lively defense and a legal border lock. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] The technical border lock, which means the fence was the Jobbik's suggestion, but you didn't even want to hear about it at the time. [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Keep watching. We have voted in favour of every measure of the legal border closure, and Jobbik has provided you with two-thirds to enable the defence to participate in border work. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] But let's get back to the present. In the midst of their great-great fight for freedom, they got busted in January, and it turned out that only 1300 migrants were admitted last year and 3,500 migrants in the last three years. [[Constant interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz, including István Németh Szilárd: You know that what you say is not true. The president's ringing the bell.]] Has Viktor Orbán already apologized to any of you, such as his brother, and has it been explained to them that you are [[Constant intervention, including István Szilárd Németh: You come here and lie!]] Did they quote a lynch mob against the ones you've taken in, by the way? [[Cries from Fidesz and Jobbik. Z. Kárpát Dániel and Németh Szilárd István consult each other.]] Did they explain, for example, did Szilárd Németh explain to the ancients, to those deceived people, the difference between the quota Syrian, the quota Afghan, the quota Iraqi or the Syrian, Afghan and Iraqi, accepted as protected by you? [[István Szilárd Németh: Don't talk nonsense!]] Did you manage to explain that? I don't think so. Here, show me... [[Uproar, outbursts. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, for a moment, I would expect your help. Can you show me any of your billboards for the last three years, any of your billboards, the last three years in any of your national consultation questionnaires, or any of the answers to a failed referendum, where you've been given a parentheses, except for the Geneva Convention? Can you show us this from your propaganda, in which you would explain to people in the midst of the success propaganda, except for the Geneva Convention? I'll help you, you can't show me that, because you've kept it quiet. But once again, the problem is not that the international conventions have been respected, the problem is that you have lied for the last three years and have claimed that we are not complying with international conventions. So, Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, on behalf of the deceived people, I expect an apology, you have the opportunity. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2018-02-19-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If someone has to apologize, honourable Member [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's you!]] Gábor Vona, who has not yet apologized to pensioners for their insulting remarks. On the other hand, I would also like to suggest with great respect that you agree within the Jobbikon, because on the same subject the second question of interpellation was raised by your fellow Member, Mr Gábor Staudt, to whom I have given a detailed and exhaustive answer, as I am about to do for you, honourable Member. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why is that a contradiction?]] I would like to stress that we Hungarians have distinguished those in need of protection from the start of the migrant crisis [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: Now!]] from economic or subsistence migrants who come to Europe, otherwise from safe countries, because they want to have a European, mainly German standard of living and German welfare. We don't consider them refugees, because they're not. Helping those in need of protection is evident to us, always has been, but we still do not ask for illegal immigrants. While the machine implementing the Soros plan and the Brusselsers constantly accuse Hungary that we are not in solidarity, that we are heartless, the truth is the opposite. The Hungarians have a heart, we have protected those who need it from the beginning, and that they have now called this fact on me: especially women, children, if they really come from a war area and come to us legally. We help everyone who really needs and respects our laws, who regularly arrives at the border crossings and respects our laws in transit zones, and really needs protection, in Hungary they receive the right help and care. This has been the case, and we will continue to do so, and we have not allowed illegal arrivals of economic migrants, and we will not let them in again. Of course, the Hungarian laws are strict, the protection only goes as long as it is necessary for those who no longer need protection to leave the territory of Hungary. Our problem with Brussels' immigration policy and the mandatory quota is that they want to put migrants who have illegally crossed borders who do not need any protection, who are actually economic immigrants. Hungary respects its international obligations in all respects. Today, opposition politicians who really want to turn the country into an immigrant country are criticizing the Hungarian government. You did not vote for the amendment of the Constitution either, honourable Member. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Secretary of State, you did not vote for him seven times.]] After the referendum, he knew that it was necessary. During the national consultation, the Hungarians expressed in greater numbers and in greater agreement than ever that they did not request the Soros plan, the Hungarians wanted strong border protection and decisive action against those who organised and helped immigration. The government will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-72	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the answer cannot be accepted, especially because after three years of lying, it has not yet been possible, even though it has been a minute for former Secretary of State to apologize, and if it is a fundamental amendment, let us also say, for the record, that you have all voted down the same amendment of the basic law seven times here, which would otherwise have closed that loophole for bond immigrants. But once again, the biggest problem is not that they have complied with international conventions, but that you have constantly lied that we do not have to follow it. I will help you: Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner, there is no Lajos Kósa in the room, whose 100 and 100 statements I can make from last year [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] That's why the government declared it. [[István Szilárd Németh: It is not true that you are struggling in vain!]] safe third country including Bosnia and Serbia [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! You're lying! You lie all the time!]] So you don't have to comply with the Geneva Convention. That's a lie we should be dealing with. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-74	Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 22 votes against. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, with the title "Rejecting new quota blackmail." I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey. [[Noise. Move.]] Excuse me, fellow Members, please take your seats. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-75	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, In addition to creating social and economic well-being, governments have an obligation to ensure the security of citizens and guarantee it. Mass migration has been a shock to European societies and has faced unprecedented problems with its leaders. In recent years, Hungary has also faced a serious threat, tens of thousands of people have used it as a transit country. In Hungary, a series of government measures delegated to citizens demonstrate that the Fidesz-KDNP government has done everything in its power to ensure the safety of people, thus halting mass migration. Today, there has been once again open political blackmail and threats from one of the EU's Member States. The Belgian Prime Minister's declaration on migration must be strongly rejected. We cannot allow them to decide on migration issues without us and us. Dear Minister, On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can say that in resisting all pressure, blackmail and ultimatums, we do not support the placement of any illegal immigrant in Hungary. I would like to stress here that, in addition to the government representation of the unanimous opinion of Hungarian citizens, the joint action of the Visegrád countries on this issue is exemplary. It has now become inevitable for our common efforts, for our common goals, and we now feel that this new initiative is also launching an attack on it. In addition to the threat posed by EU internal counter-interests, the latest UN migration package contains findings that are contrary to the interests of Hungary, as it urges which countries open their borders, so to speak, to take advantage of useful immigration. We must also take action against this with a united force. In addition, unfortunately, I cannot listen to the position of some opposition members who, without thinking, would start the resettlement of immigrants into our country, who did not support the amendment of the basic law on the prevention of resettlement, the construction of the fence, but supported the immigration policy in Brussels at home and abroad. On the basis of the above, I ask the Minister what the government can do to prevent the introduction of the planned quota system. What is the danger of a new blackmail ultimatum, can we expect further joint action on behalf of the Visegrad Four? I look forward to your reply, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth pointing out first of all the answer to the basic question: Hungary will not be an immigrant country, Hungary will never accept or accept illegal immigrants. It does not matter what pressure they put on us, either from the United Nations, from the European Union, from any international organisation or from a Member State of the European Union. We do not accept that anyone is making an ultimatum to us Central Europeans, we do not accept completely unEuropean extortion and pressure. Unfortunately, it has to be seen that, in recent times, there has been a time when the various institutions of the European Union have tried to force European Union Member States to accept illegal immigrants, with a strong enough parentheses. We can remember how the whole quota story started. The European Council, which is the highest level decision-making body in the European Union, where Heads of State and Government of the EU Member States take part, has unanimously adopted the conclusions that the reception and resettlement quotas could have rested solely on the basis of volunteering. [[15.40]] After that, the European Council's formation as Minister of Interior, which is already one level below the decision-making line, not by unanimous vote, but by majority decision, rewriting the will of the European Heads of State and Government, decided that quotas would then be mandatory. And then we can also remember that the news was first about 120,000, then it became 160,000, then there was a proposal from one of the European Parliament's Committees to establish a mandatory resettlement allocation system without any upper limits, which is virtually timeless. This is totally unacceptable to us. This is completely against the security interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. As a result of migration, there are security risks in Europe that we have not been able to understand in recent decades, which we have not seen, the threat of terrorism in recent decades has not been as serious in Europe as it is now, and all this has been created because of illegal mass immigration. The Visegrád countries have decided to submit a package of proposals during the ongoing discussions of the Dublin Treaties, a package of proposals which does not regard migration as an incentive, but as a package that needs to be stopped. My proposals include the need to fully regain control of the European Union's external borders. Our proposal states that a decision must be taken beyond the borders of the European Union on who can at all be entitled to enter the territory of the European Union and that our proposals include effective return policies. So if someone finds out that he has come to Europe in breach of law, he is staying in the European Union in breach of law, we should immediately send him back where he came from. It cannot, however, be allowed to take the approach that the right to migration is a fundamental human right, because it is not a fundamental human right to decide where one wants to live. There are international laws that must be respected by all, and one of the most important of them is that borders can only be crossed as set out in international treaties. Therefore, honourable Member, I can assure you that, contrary to any kind of pressure, the Hungarian Government is insisting that we will not accept illegal immigrants in the future, just as we have not yet accepted them. Thank you for your parliamentary support for this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-78	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-79	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, both as an inter-pelling politician and as a citizen. Allow me to express my thanks to the Hungarian Government for continuing to fight relentlessly for the independence of our country, and Hungary is not extorted and independent. We see that the Hungarian government stands in the way of those who want to turn Hungary into an immigrant country, but we will not let that happen. Last but not least, on behalf of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, I thank you for Hungary's Government's counter-opinion on the UN migration package. Believe me, in this fight, we will not be alone, and we have more and more allies who agree with us. Mr. Minister, I would like to thank you once again for your reply, and I accept it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:44 p.m. to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, "Have you blinded the sun?" It's an address. Mr. Attorney General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General for an urgent public service. I ask the congressman if you will accept the person who is responding, or if you are asking for an answer personally from the Attorney General?
u2018-02-19-81	I'll take it, thank you.
u2018-02-19-82	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, the European Union's Anti-Fraud Office in the so-called Elios case revealed the biggest corruption case in recent years. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Which we now call the son-in-law. It is particularly serious, because it is not simply the fraudulent use of billions of public funds, but, on the one hand, the use of public funds in a way that is compatible with organised crime and, on the other hand, the involvement of a person belonging to the Prime Minister's family. OLAF found traces of a ten billion-dollar public money theft involving a member of the Prime Minister's family, in which Hungarian people were harmed by mafia methods. Following OLAF's investigation and on the basis of the findings published as a result of the investigation, Elios Zrt appears to have been able to cheat on a operational basis. on applications for rural public lighting. Modernization has been so successful that OLAF has proposed to withdraw the HUF 13 billion EU funding from Hungary in the form of regular proposals won by Elios. All because the Prime Minister's son-in-law, the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, came up with this modernisation programme together, but they forgot about legality. I ask the Attorney General through you: what else does it take for the prosecution to finally act? The machinations found in 17 applications can be described in OLAF's readings by a crime of fiscal fraud under Hungarian law, but OLAF also proposes that the Hungarian authorities examine whether the events do not meet the conditions of organised crime. Where is this investigation going, and if there is an investigation, what crime is currently under investigation? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2018-02-19-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, [[His mic's not working.]]
u2018-02-19-86	I'm asking for your understanding. One moment, please. The microphone should be installed. I'm gonna need the watch back.
u2018-02-19-87	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the question of the Member, he refers to the recommendation sent to the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, the Prosecutor's Office. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to stress that OLAF is only looking at administrative irregularities related to EU funds. The issue of criminal liability is neither addressed nor dealt with. However, at the end of its proceedings, you may make a judicial recommendation to that national authority, the High Prosecutor in Hungary, if you suspect a criminal offence and ask for the initiation of an investigation. In this case, according to the protocol established by the Attorney General, the Hungarian Prosecutor's Office would always like to emphasise that it will always order the investigation and entrust it to one of the investigating authorities. I would point out that, in eight of the 36 cases initiated on OLAF's recommendation in Hungary, the prosecutor's office indicted, in eight cases, the investigating authority terminated the proceedings while the other cases were pending. This ratio corresponds perfectly to the EU average, and a few percent is even better. I would like to inform the congressman that the prosecutor's office has taken action in the specific case. On 22 January 2018, the Pest County Attorney General also ordered the investigation and the Alert Police appointed the National Bureau of Investigation to carry it out. The investigation is ongoing. However, from what the Member has said, it seems clear to me that he has complete confidence in the findings made by the European Union Anti-Fraud Office and OLAF. I can only hope that this trust exists for all recommendations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-19-88	I thank the Deputy Attorney General for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A member of the European Commission, who is responsible for regional policy, Corina Creţu, said that the Prime Minister would be arrested in Romania if he judged public procurement as his son-in-law. Here have been some findings from these reports over the past period that are not about winning public procurement, but about the fraudulent way it is organised, because no one will believe that they suddenly thought of modernising the public lighting of settlements with the Prime Minister's son-in-law. [[15.50]] In my opinion, the prosecutor's office should have acted on this a long time ago, should not have waited for OLAF's recommendation, there has been a complaint in these cases, and the prosecutor's office has terminated it in the absence of a criminal offence. My respectful question to Mr. Attorney General is why the interests of Fidesz are being protected. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-02-19-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Deputy Attorney General. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat what I said. Otherwise, the prosecutor's office does not protect anyone's interests, but acts under the authority of the Fundamental Law, the Public Prosecutor's Law and other legal provisions as defined by the law. This is the case in all other cases and in the specific case. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the National Economy an immediate question:. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-93	Mr President, Dear House, I must accept the person of the responder even if the Prime Minister or Minister does not undertake to give a meaningful answer to the question of foreign exchange lenders. It is only because it is the only way I can get any kind of answer to the parliamentary elections as to why the Prime Minister or one of his ministers does not speak to those who have been harmed by foreign currency loans, to those who defend them, why they do not dare to face those whose calvary was caused, many of them, as they are known, or have lost their homes, or their families, or both. It can also be said that the currency-credited round table has been reconvened, with numerous NGO leaders and members of many civil society organisations appearing at this round table at the invitation of Jobbik. The political parties, the government and the Banking Union are invited, but the government does not have the courage to face this. That's how it happened. At the same time, the organisation Jobbik and the Tax Chamber signed a cooperation agreement with several other civil society organisations that we will fully represent the 12 points expressed by civilians in the National Assembly. I would add that Tamás Dabasi and János Agárdi experts extended it to 14 points already at the height of 2010. We've been bombing you with comments and suggestions ever since. But first of all, I have a yes-no question, Mr. Secretary of State. Do you support that the eviction moratorium should be complete until the problem is resolved, so not only until the elections, because evacuations are still taking place, and secondly, do you support that there will be an enforcement moratorium on foreign exchange credit cases, so that we can stop the looting of people and the artificial expansion of their debt at least as long as a Jobbik government can finally solve this problem? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-95	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, For four years or more, it can be said that for more than four years these questions have been constantly being asked, and they do not want to accept or acknowledge the measures taken by the government over the past period in relation to those involved in foreign exchange credit, and have taken a number of measures that have been a solution to the problem for many, or have made it easier for many to solve the problem. The government not only negotiates and not only wants to negotiate, but also has done so in the case of foreign exchange credentials, by making very, very many proposals for solutions or by providing for the possibility of legislating which dealt with these problem-solving issues. I have a three-page material that shows almost step by step since 2010 what solutions the government has done in the interest of foreign exchange taxpayers by amending legislation, making laws or making regulations. He did this in countless steps, there are about 12-13 points here that gave these solutions the opportunity step by step. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] For example, the last amendment to the law that will prevent eviction by 30 April [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true! You're lying!]] proposed by the politicians of the Christian Democratic People's Party. However, it can be said that the majority of the measures carried out during 2014-15 provided a solution to the problem of foreign exchange lending. In the framework of the settlement, banks have credited nearly HUF 750 billion to customers' accounts, which is a huge amount of money, even considering how many people were affected. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-19-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-02-19-97	If one sentence of what you said here had been true, wouldn't my colleague György Szilágyi have had to whisper that this could be done with one question: evictions or not? Answer that. We are alerted to such an event every week. If what you said was true, these alarms wouldn't happen. Be a man, Mr. Secretary, you have a minute to answer. Mark yourself or the minister who receives the delegation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, sits down with them, listens to them, takes over their 12 points and finally responds to them in substance. Be a man, stand over there. Here were their demonstrations at Kossuth Square. Why is it that a pro-government politician didn't dare to turn and dare to go to Kossuth Square? You didn't dare do this 200 meters, Mr. Secretary? You can bring up earlier measures for me here, but you have contributed to the destruction of hundreds of thousands of people, and you have not answered my specific questions. I repeat them: do they undertake the full eviction moratorium until the problem is resolved, or the implementation moratorium on foreign exchange creditors, so that they do not artificially dissipate their debts? That's the question, answer me specifically, honestly, straight. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-19-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, He said they were whispering. Typically, he's been showing you four years' work, what you're doing: whispering, saying something. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true! György Szilágyi: Is there an eviction or not?]] Then, if it's in their best interest, they'll claim the exact opposite. So according to their interests, as you are expected, or as your interests require, they are political. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Answer the question! György Szilágyi: Is there an eviction or not?]] You have misled hundreds of thousands of people when they tried demagogically to mislead several foreign exchange lenders by misrepresenting false claims. [[György Szilágyi: Is there an eviction or not?]] The facts are that, in recent years, there have been a number of measures that have helped foreign exchange lenders in recent years. For example, the final repayment gave about 170,000 people the opportunity to pay off their loans. [[Dr. István Apáti: Is there an eviction?]] [[György Szilágyi: Is there an eviction or not?]] [[György Szilágyi: Is there an eviction or not?]] The facts are that, in recent years, there have been a number of measures that have helped foreign exchange lenders in recent years. For example, the final repayment gave about 170,000 people the opportunity to pay off their loans. (Dr. István Apáti: Is there eviction?) The price barrier helped hundreds of thousands of people. (György Szilágyi: Is there eviction or not?) The establishment of the National Asset Manager has solved the problems of nearly 35,000 families. (György Szilágyi: Is there eviction or not?) That's what we've done, and you've been talking for four years or eight years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can reality be overcome? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-02-19-101	No wonder the Prime Minister didn't show up...
u2018-02-19-102	I'm waiting for an answer, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-103	The Minister can't answer, so I won't take it.
u2018-02-19-104	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-02-19-105	I'm sorry you didn't show up, but I really hope there won't be a time when I can ask him like this, because he won't be here anymore. Thank you.
u2018-02-19-106	The Member did not accept the Minister's identity as a response. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[16.00]] Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of LMP, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister without a wallet in charge of the development of county-righted cities:, Is there an explanation? It's an address. Minister István Horváth has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task, but Minister of State is not in the Chamber. Congressman, we will return to your question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, on behalf of Fidesz, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: What are the latest developments at Altus Portfolio Kft. in a market surveillance procedure initiated as a result of its activities? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Congressman accepts the identity of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Altus Portfolio Kft. is connected to Ferenc Gyurcsány. on several occasions, he granted a large loan to Human Operator Zrt., a suspect in fiscal fraud, controlled by Csaba Czeglédy. The total value of the loans mentioned above is approximately HUF 200 million. Ferenc Gyurcsány, former Socialist Prime Minister, claims that it was a friendly loan, but the terms in the loan agreement, such as interest on late payment, bank incassor, are likely to have been a commercial lending activity behind the loans. As a result, in October 2017, I turned to the Financial Consumer Centre of the Hungarian National Bank, and thereafter the Hungarian National Bank carried out data collection. As a result of the data collection, the National Bank informed me in January this year that a market surveillance procedure was launched. According to the legislation, such a procedure may be initiated in the event of suspicion of unauthorised activity. Based on this, there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that Altus Portfolio Kft. has conducted financial activities without legal authorisation. [[György Szilágyi: They were supposed to be accounted for!]] On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Vice-President when the procedure is expected to be completed and what legal consequences the procedure may have [[Dr. László György Lukács: Why don't you ask the editors of Origo or Ripost about this?]] if it is confirmed that Altus Portfolio Kft. is suspected. has been engaged in financial activities without authorisation. Thank you for your answer. [[György Szilágyi: They would have been accounted for! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Szilágyi [[György Szilágyi: They would have been accounted for!]] If you'll allow us, we'll continue our work. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Martin the Great. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-02-19-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Honourable Congressman, That's what I can tell you. Following the announcement made by the Hungarian National Bank on 25 October 2017, the Hungarian National Bank carried out preliminary data collection in autumn 2017 on whether the financial activity carried out in the absence of authorisation might be suspected by the Altus Portfolio Limited Liability Company or Altus Portfolio Ltd. In this regard, it is important to note that, in view of the above, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market and that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As a result of the preliminary data collection, this was indeed suspected, and the MNB therefore considered it justified to initiate a market surveillance procedure in the case. At the moment, the MNB is carrying out the usual market surveillance procedure for the clarification of the facts of the case, further detailed data collection, clarification of the data, statements, and other procedural acts. CXXXIX of 2013 on the MNB. Law 90. According to Section 2 of the Hungarian National Bank, the central bank has a maximum of 6 months from the date of its opening, so in 6 months' time, the Hungarian National Bank believes that it will always finish such a market surveillance procedure before the legal deadline. So here, too, I can tell the Member that, on the basis of practice, the MNB will close the market surveillance procedure earlier than the legal deadlines. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-110	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-02-19-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is quite clear that this case is not only the case of Csaba Czeglédy, but also the corruption case of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left. The worst part of the case is that students and pensioners have been damaged. Csaba Czeglédy and the Human Operator Zrt., who led the loan, did not need the amount of the loan, because according to this new suspicion, the investigating authority suspected him of stealing HUF 6.3 billion, and in addition, Csaba Czeglédy's secret Austrian safe seized more than a kilo of gold. He could've paid the students out of it anyway. I believe and there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that this money, the money stolen by Czeglédy, could have migrated into the party register of MSZP and DK. Csaba Czeglédy is Ferenc Gyurcsány and the stróman of the left. And this stooge wants to and is going to run for parliamentary elections as an independent, but this is the Mafia left, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. György Szilágyi: They would have been accounted for!]]
u2018-02-19-112	Thank you very much. Congressman Szilágyi, may I ask you not to interfere with the work of the Parliament? [[György Szilágyi: All I said was that they should have been accounted for!]] Congressman, I have not spoken to you in this Chamber. Please, have a seat. Thank you. [[György Szilágyi: Should have been counted!]] Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President will have a rejoinder. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-113	Thank you very much. It is very important to clarify the legal consequences of suspicion of financial activity and of finding out about it. On the one hand, the Hungarian National Bank may impose a market surveillance fine and, on the other hand, may initiate criminal proceedings or prohibit further conduct of the activity. Criminal proceedings may be carried out with the competent investigating authorities. As regards the amount of the market surveillance fine, I can say the following. According to the legislation, suspects can be punished from HUF 100,000 to HUF 2 billion in this case. Once the market surveillance investigation has been completed, the MNB will inform both the notifying Member and the public of the developments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-114	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, "Why are you defending him, why are you not accusing the people concerned?" It's an address. Mr. Attorney General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General for an urgent public service. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Attorney General himself for an answer.
u2018-02-19-115	I accept, thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-116	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, Earlier, the Attorney General informed my colleague that EUR 3 million, or almost HUF 1 billion, was suspected of being committed in an investigation into the particularly significant misappropriation of property, which is Tüke Busz Zrt. in Pécs. It concerns the purchase of a bus in 2015. On the basis of the news published in the press, what happened was that a small, business- and friendly circle had reached out to pay much more money than required for the purchase of a bus in Pécs with purely public money and credit, i.e. to take out much more credit than necessary, and to organise how to obtain the real part above the actual costs without problems. We know that the investigation has ties in the Netherlands and Serbia, and we now know that Thailand's involvement can be detected, based on press reports. In this case, the financing of terrorism may also be suspected. It also turned out in the press that there were two public figures involved in the case. According to the press, the case is already at such a level that, despite the presence of public figures, their names have been specifically mentioned in the D.A.'s file in the Netherlands, and you already have these documents. I'm going to ask Deputy Attorney General what else it takes to get the prosecution to come forward on this case and make a case. Who are you protecting by taking away the time of the investigation? Who are the public actors concerned? Who's behind Thai offshore accounts? After all, the Dutch authorities have slowly revealed the Dutch thread faster than you are investigating in Hungary. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-02-19-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. [[16.10]]
u2018-02-19-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, in the title of Mr President's immediate question, he made use of a non-specific wording from which no conclusions could be drawn on the case we have just mentioned. It is important to know that some 250 to 300 thousand crimes are known each year, almost 100,000 offenders are known, and the prosecution's criminal record is almost 900 thousand, so please excuse me now that I am not familiar with the full details of the case you referred to me. In general, all I can say is that, as a public prosecutor, the prosecution enforces, pursues, and does not defend the criminal and the criminal claims of the state, he charges you if you have a professional conviction that a crime has been committed, is committed by the suspect, and, in your professional conviction, you can determine the presumption of innocence. I can promise Mr President that you will be informed in writing of the specific matter within 15 days. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-120	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-02-19-121	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I look forward to your reply in writing within 15 days. Allow me to highlight one thing here in this one minute: if the prosecution has to deal with so many crimes, then it is justified that we put forward to this House a proposal to set up an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, regardless of the prosecutor's office, because here, according to the press, public figures are involved in this crime, worth nearly a billion forints. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You voted before 2010.]] So I think that, if the prosecutor's office is so overwhelmed, it would be worth considering the crimes committed by public figures in particular, and perhaps the suspicion of the Prime Minister's son-in-law should also be investigated by such a prosecutor. I'll be waiting for the written answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-122	Thank you. The Deputy Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat what I said: the prosecutor's office is acting in all cases, including in the case referred to by the Member, according to the relevant legal provisions. Action against corruption is an outstanding task of the prosecutor's organisation, and it has done its best to do so and will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Hoffmann Rose applauds.]]
u2018-02-19-124	Thank you very much for your reply, Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: Why is the government not helping Hungarian citizens living abroad to participate in elections? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2018-02-19-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, I am pleased that we can talk about this in person. Your catastrophic economic policy, as well as the disastrous economic policies of your governments, has driven over half a million people, but rather three quarters of a million people, including most young people, out of this country over the last few years. They are not able to participate in parliamentary elections with equal opportunities, they only have the opportunity to vote in the embassies in person or at various foreign representations, unlike our Hungarian brothers from abroad, for whom Fidesz easily provided this opportunity in a letter. Even though we talked about this issue several times here in the Parliament, despite the two closing statements of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, even though we have several proposals for a resolution, you have refused to resolve this amazing discrimination. There is a very simple reason for this, whatever you are explaining here on constitutional issues and other matters with which you were trying to interpret the Constitutional Court's decision, which, by the way, said that this distinction is not unconstitutional, but that it could be possible to establish further detailed rules, you were not willing to do so, because you are afraid of these voters, afraid of the hundreds of thousands of people who could make decisions over your policy. Unfortunately, we have moved past that now, and we cannot change that, but it would have been possible to at least help them in some way to participate in their elections, to ensure more locations to be able to vote. There are many points in the world, many large regions where this is not possible, because this can only be done at foreign representations and consulates. There is one beauty patch, and you will certainly say that, Minister, and this is Manchester and Edinburgh, where such an opportunity is now opening up, but in many parts of the world there are tens of thousands of Hungarians who have an impossible task of distance, travel and related costs. That was on purpose, Minister, did you create such a situation on purpose? If not [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then why didn't you try to resolve this issue and give us more opportunities to vote? [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-02-19-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for raising this issue here in Parliament, given that it is in the interests of all of us that all members of the Hungarian nation, regardless of where they live in the world, can participate in the parliamentary elections, because it is extremely important for us that all members of the Hungarian nation who want to participate in the joint, most important decision on the future of our country. That is why, honourable Member, I would like to inform you that since I have been able to do foreign trade and foreign minister work, I have always been careful to continuously expand our consular services. In several cases, I have been able to personally consult you on various consular matters, which we have always tried to resolve to the best of our knowledge. I would like to inform you that while in 2014 there was a total of 97 locations outside Hungary that allowed Hungarian citizens to cast their votes in the parliamentary elections, in 2018, there are 118 places already, so there are 21 places available for Hungarian citizens to cast their votes. The Manchester and Edinburgh you mentioned are indeed two outstanding Western European examples, but we can also talk about Stuttgart, Düsseldorf or the Chicago Consulate-General that has been opened since then. In the Western world, we have opened these foreign representations by always observing where there is a significant Hungarian community for whom a Hungarian foreign representation can help. In addition, I would also like to inform you that, of course, at foreign representations conducting a personal vote, it is also possible for those voting in a letter to submit their voting packages and to finally reach the National Election Office through the foreign representation. Thank you once again, Member, for raising this issue here in Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-128	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-129	I was pleased to hear the Minister's commitment that it is important to participate in the elections, but then it should have been possible for all to vote on the letter equally, not only for Hungarians who vote for you in the majority of the borders, but also under conditions that are highly questionable. We know that voting on behalf of the dead can be abused, that it is not precisely resolved to ensure that there is no doubt that it is indeed the one to whom the package of letters will be sent to register for the vote. So there is scope for abuse here, and there is a wide margin for this, and for those who have fled to Western Europe or overseas, this possibility is not available. There are many such parts of the world: Canada, for example, can only vote in Toronto or Ottawa, in the United States only on the two shores, for example, a Hungarian from Florida will no longer be able to vote, or in Australia there are only three cities in southern Australia. The problem, Minister, is that while you are constantly alarming me that Soros wants to install a million and a half people in Hungary, while you have actually relocated hundreds of thousands of people from Hungary in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rebuttal answer. You have the floor, Minister.
u2018-02-19-131	Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Obviously, Congressman, you couldn't be serious about your last sentence. With regard to the substance of your question, I would like to repeat two numbers: in four years we have increased the number of places in the world where Hungarian citizens can vote from 97 to 118. We may not have the same taste, and you're saying that increasing the location by almost a quarter is not enough. Honourable Member, I am always happy to see someone fighting for the expansion of the foreign representation network, which is who I am. Since I was able to do this work, the number of Hungarian foreign representations has risen above 130. I would have liked to have received some support from the opposition. Honourable Congressman, We agree, of course, that as many Hungarians as possible can take part in parliamentary elections, they should live near the border, across the border or anywhere else in the world. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-132	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs an immediate question: what are the prospects of Hungarian minorities in neighbouring countries? It's an address. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor. [[16.20]]
u2018-02-19-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Just a month ago, on 23 January in Strasbourg, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a Hungarian report by a very large majority, 130:10. I may not recall that Hungary has been a member of the Council of Europe for about a quarter of a century, but this was the second Hungarian report that was negotiated and adopted, and it is perhaps also important that this second report was also prepared in the presentation of a Christian Democrat politician. Subject and title of the report: Strengthening and position of regional and minority languages throughout Europe. Although the report gave a European outlook and wanted to strengthen and improve the situation of more than 50 million minorities living in Europe, we Hungarians, however, had this report as a matter of heart, because we are well aware that, apart from their own faults, due to the storms and curses of history, millions of people are living outside our borders in a minority fate that has caused them many problems and life-threatening conflicts over the past decades. Today, the situation is changing in the surrounding countries, but we can never be satisfied and calm. This is confirmed by the Ukrainian education law of September last year, as it can be seen that, although the situation has been acceptable so far, these conditions may deteriorate as a result of a sudden change in politics. That is why I ask with respect, Minister, that you see in this case the situation of the rights of the European minority in neighbouring countries in the near future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-02-19-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When we shape our policy on Hungarians across the border, we do not want to reinvent hot water, but simply ask Hungarian communities across the border what they are asking us to do, what we should take on the issues that concern them. We do not want to tell Hungarian communities across the border about Budapest what is good for them, but we expect them to give us the coordinates on which we can always establish our position on them. Our basic concept, honourable Member, is that we believe that the Hungarian national community across the border is much better off if there is a good and balanced relationship between the mother country and the country of residence. This is so much better than a bad relationship. Unfortunately, this has also been the case in recent years. We always provide help to help our national communities, which we consider as resources, to strengthen themselves locally and to thrive locally. And if there is a case, such as the Ukrainian educational law, mentioned by you, then we are not reluctant to seize fundamental international political instruments in order to put pressure on the other country so that it does not violate the rights of the Hungarian national community. As far as Ukraine is concerned, it must be said that we are in the process of breaking international law, as Ukraine wants to take away another existing law from national communities, including the Hungarian national community. We are therefore, of course, using all the instruments at our disposal in order to force the neighbouring country to comply with international law and its bilateral obligations. The assistance provided by Parliament and the factions in this matter is, of course, thanked. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-136	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann.
u2018-02-19-137	Dear Minister, I must honestly say that the Hungarian Government deserves recognition for the efforts and results it has made in favour of our national minorities living across the border, both in terms of attention and in terms of materialism and in terms of a very determined stance. Allow me one short personal sentence. I too enjoy working on this subject and finishing my work as a representative with such a successful report. In this matter, both at home and in the Parliament of the Council of Europe, Members agreed that this would explain the great majority of words, and this would provide a sufficient guarantee and hope that the Minority SafePack initiative might also be effective, and if the legislation governing the fate of minorities is passed, then perhaps the bad times that we all know from literature, history and reality will be over. Thank you again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say to you that we can report on a number of reassuring developments in relation to neighbouring countries, but it is also clear that there is a lot of work ahead of us, despite the fact that we have managed to build serious common success stories with several neighbouring countries and build a kind of trust fund to put the still sensitive and difficult issues on the agenda with the hope of a solution, but in some cases we have been able to move even slower than our own objectives. However, one thing is clear: under all circumstances, the Government of Hungary protects the rights of minorities living outside the border, and it is clear that we can do this effectively if there is a broad political consensus surrounding these steps. Thanks to God, we can say that in the past period, if nothing else, at least in the protection of Hungarians living beyond the borders, we could count on a kind of national consensus and political support, which spans parties. This will continue to be necessary in the future in order to succeed in protecting our minorities, our national communities. We thanked you for your work on this matter. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-140	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We are now returning to the question of Mr Ákos Hadházy. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of LMP, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister without a wallet in charge of the development of county-righted cities:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Minister István Horváth has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-02-19-141	I accept, thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-142	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is no wonder that the Secretary of State wanted to run away or avoid this conversation, because he was once again involved in the case which, after the trade-off, may be the biggest scandal in recent decades, and obviously wanted to avoid asking him a question about it. István Horváth has said in the last few days that I have filed several charges against him, and he has not said against him, but that I have filed a complaint against Szekszárd or the Szekszárds, but as they have all rejected it, this will also be rejected. He wasn't telling the truth, because, on the one hand, I didn't press charges against Szekszárd, especially against the Szekszárds, but against you in the first place. It's true that you're not a szekszárd, but you're a big dog, but it's not true that these cases are closed. You know very well that, for example, the Öveges case has not been closed, you know very well that we have complained about the Wosinsky Street kindergarten and it has not been closed, and you also know very well that the cases have not been closed in the case of István Tiborcz. In this last case, once again, I would like to clarify a small, although very important, issue in the most serious, highest-ranking case of the last decades and to take advantage of the fact that you must answer it, and I very much hope that you will answer it. I have two questions. Where did you first hear about this project? Who told you about the LED lights? After all, you are already Elios Kft. two years before the project was launched. He was negotiating with Mancz Ivette, the director of public lighting. It's a very important question who gave you Mancz Ivette's phone number. Who drew your attention to the company of István Tiborcz, Elios Kft.? That's a very important question. Answer that question. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-144	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Horváth. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-02-19-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm a little confused because I have to replace Minister Lajos Kósa. The Minister did not have a question, but Mr Hadházy continued his rampage in public life, which we have been following for a long time, but as a hopeless opposition politician, he is obviously doing everything he can to keep the opposition press on the subject. If I may, in this moment and a half, I would like to talk about the role that Minister Lajos Kósa and I intend to play in the development of cities with county rights. We would like to implement 260 projects in 23 county-righted cities. Investment in infrastructure is the largest resource requirement. I would like to highlight 690 kilometers of road and 137 kilometers of railway development. We have created or expanded industrial parks in 20 cities to help create jobs. [[16.30]] We create transport nodes in 11 cities, we modernise local public transport in 10 cities, and we expand airports in 5 cities. In 8 cities there is significant local road development, and in 7 cities we provide resources for the construction of bicycle roads. We support investment in 15 urban regeneration and residential environments, 5 cities for the renovation of castles and monuments. There will be significant energy and utility development in 6 cities, 13 cities, and we will implement an economic development and innovation project. 114 investments in culture, tourism, health and sport are also being made to improve the quality of life of urban people and people living in attraction circles, and to increase the tourist attractiveness of municipalities. Honourable Congressman, We're happy to be partners in urban development and country development, but in this public amok run you've been running for years, don't count on our partnership. I ask for my answer to be respected. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-19-146	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-147	Thank you very much. Well, I was expecting Minister Kósa, but if there isn't a horse, then let's ask some important questions on good grounds. I might have asked Louis Kósa a different question. This is a very important question. You can see that you're still very beginner in this role, since you don't know that you have to answer. This is the hour of immediate questioning, and the question must be answered. And you pulled out a piece of paper and read it. True, as far as I know, he spoke about 5-6 times in this House in eight years. Obviously it is easier to read something, but this hour of immediate questioning, I hope you will not have too many opportunities to practice it. Once again, the question is, how did you first hear about the LED lamp option, and where did you get Mancz Ivette's phone number? Where did you get it six months before you even got the tender? How did you first hear about Elios Kft., where did you first hear about István Tiborcz? After all, you said that István Tiborcz was the reason to vote on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-148	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, That's why it feels like LMP's backup member Ron Werber is here in Parliament, and you seem to be buying different speech exercises from him. I can't be a partner in this. We are contracted to build this country, to represent the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people. You do not represent the Hungarian people, you only represent yourself, your individual ambitions, and everything is subject to this. If you don't like it, my request, you can ask for it, you don't have to make a recording here, like you do on other occasions. I think that then face to face these questions can be clarified. What we can be partners in is country building and nation sovereignty. We're in this one. The Ron Werber hate, the Simicska hate, we don't want it here, in Parliament, or in everyday life. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Ákos Hadházy applauds.]]
u2018-02-19-150	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Font, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Róbert Zsigó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person of the responding [[Alexander Font: Yes.]] Or he'll ask the Minister himself for an answer. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, In recent years, the example of V4, including our country, has seen an increasing number of test substances that clearly compare the differences between food placed on the markets in Western Europe and food placed on the markets in Central and Eastern Europe. Studies in Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and Lithuania also show that multinational food companies continue to use the outrageous practice of marketing products of different quality with the same product name and packaging on certain markets, favouring consumers in Western Europe, of course. Experience has shown that products marketed throughout Europe in the same packaging are even more expensive in the poorer Eastern Member States, even though they are made from lower quality raw materials. This is, in our opinion, discrimination on a continent scale, which is unacceptable, which is why the V4 are acting in a coordinated and effective manner against the phenomenon in the various forums of the Union. It is safe to say that this joint action is the result of the fact that the European Commission is now really looking at the matter as a serious problem at EU level and is constantly dealing with it at a high level. Even our great friend Jean-Claude Juncker said it was untenable. In his view, too, this practice needs to be changed. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State how the Government judges the European Commission's actions so far. What do you expect from these? In addition to international action in Hungary, what steps does the government plan to take, whether we have any tools in our hands, and how do we want to protect Hungarian consumers from this undesirable phenomenon? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-02-19-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-19-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for bringing up this topic, which concerns all Hungarian families, here in front of Parliament. You asked me a lot of questions that I know, and I'm gonna answer now, which I'm not, and I'm gonna come back in return. About a year ago, the earlier investigation carried out by the National Food Chain Safety Office was again at the centre of interest by the Slovak Minister after the publication of the investigation there. Indeed, the results of the tests have proved, as you said, that the same products of large food companies were placed in a different composition, in many cases in a different quality, several times in a worse quality, for example, on the shelves of Hungarian shops and from here on to the basket of Hungarian buyers. The issue of dual-quality food is also outrageous because they treated Hungarian customers as second-class citizens. We have said from the outset that the European Commission must find a legal solution to this outrageous issue, and that the Brussels bureaucrats have the legal solution. Following the inclusion of the inspections, the problem was raised in March 2017 with Slovakia at the meeting of the European Union Fisheries and Agriculture Committee. Indeed, this matter was also discussed at the joint meeting of the V4 prime ministers, and indeed, the V4 and the countries involved, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia, where the authorities there also carried out investigations, joined us. Yes, it has been achieved thanks to the joint action of the V4 that the President of the Commission and the Commission themselves take this problem seriously, although even at the European Agriculture and Fisheries Council in March, most of the leaders of the European Union said that this problem does not exist and that we do not have to deal with it. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-154	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor in return.
u2018-02-19-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your encouraging reply. However, at last week's meeting of the V4 Committee on Agriculture, I asked for a separate item on the agenda, which we discussed thoroughly. In the course of the debate, it also came up that, as we look at EU legislation, it is the case that these legislation is more focused on manufacturers than if they were representing their interests in some controversial situations. So it will be very difficult, in Hungarian, to push the whole legal system away in order to protect consumers, we thought at our meeting last week. Because, unfortunately, this unlucky and outrageous food discrimination continues to happen. In fact, it has been suggested that it appears that laundry detergents for clothing, rinsing agents, and dishwashing detergents used to clean dishes have the same distinction in our opinion. We'd like you to do something nice in this, too. Thank you.
u2018-02-19-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-19-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Indeed, joint action by the V4 is still needed in order to solve this problem. At the beginning, he asked what the solution might be. Indeed, the Ministry of Agriculture has considered raising the quality of food to be one of its main tasks in recent years, raising awareness of local products, helping local producers and creating local producer markets to be important. But last July, the government passed a resolution, which became a 20-point action plan. This is about increasing the quality of food, raising consumer awareness and strengthening effective official work. [[16.40]] The government ordered 2 billion forints to implement this government decision, because we believe that the strongest weapon, let's say, in the case of dual quality, is the strengthening of consumer awareness. We continue to do everything we can to ensure that healthy, safe and high-quality food is placed on the table of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-19-158	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question. It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the President himself for an answer.
u2018-02-19-159	I accept, thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-160	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, When the fidesz broker scandals broke out three years ago, Buda-Cash fell, then Quaestor and Hungária Securities Ltd., they said that the Hungarian National Bank is in control of the situation and effectively supervises the financial sector. It has now been revealed that for years the Hungarian National Bank, which has been guarding the legality of the banking sector, has taken legal decisions. In the Kúria two review procedures were also stated: they are infringers, and therefore the national banking decisions taken by László Windisch, vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank, are null and void by Hungária Securities Ltd., which is in liquidation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is a very embarrassing mistake on the part of the National Bank, which continues to supervise the legal operation of financial institutions. Each month, hundreds of decisions are taken by the central bank and the fines of a total of billions are allocated. This is a very embarrassing mistake on the part of the MNB, which exercises continuous supervision of financial institutions, and, at the same time, on the basis of the judgments of the Curia in relation to broker scandals, at least Hungária Securities Ltd. the decisions listed by Windisch could be successfully challenged. In view of this error, the question is bound to arise whether the leaders of the MNB are collaborating with fraudulent brokers or simply unfit for financial supervision. László Windisch's work, however, is highly appreciated by the MNB, since besides his monthly salary of HUF 4.5 million, László Windisch received a gross income of HUF 2.4 million per month for four posts in the company or organization linked to the central bank, and also took a preferential loan from the MNB. Mr. Vice President, How was that, how was that? Are there conscious clumsiness in this case, and the MNB secretly sided with fraudulent brokers, or are they unfit to oversee the financial sector? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-02-19-162	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice-President Martin the Great.
u2018-02-19-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, First of all, let me begin by saying that we do appreciate the work of Vice-President László Windisch. He is a very important person, he is very good at dealing with the issues of supervision and its management, and the decisions made in this regard also meet professional requirements. What you have raised is a technical issue, so we do not think that technical issues require such conclusions, which you are making, and we reject these conclusions, both of them. The Curia's judgment in this case is respected by the National Bank, but it goes to the Constitutional Court because it believes that the application of the law has been misunderstood by the Curia and that the Constitutional Court can clarify this situation. In any case, we see that the current decision would obviously make it impossible for PST to operate, and this needs to be corrected. In this case, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank also initiated to remedy this, so in addition to the Constitutional Court, it turned to the legislator himself or to the party responsible for the legislation. In this case, both the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Justice have initiated a review of the legislation and, if necessary, amend it. However, I continue to stress that this is a technical issue. The technical issue can be resolved quickly, but the conclusions that the National Bank would not perform its task well, the decisions are wrong or inadequate, and the attack on the person of László Windisch is rejected in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-19-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-02-19-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, there have been cases in the area of the National Bank of Hungary that ended up in the Constitutional Court. That was when they tried to wipe out the public money of the National Bank. After all, this was not allowed by the Constitutional Court. In addition, for such a technical failure, the Parliament is now being activated. Perhaps tomorrow we will discuss the bill to correct your mistakes in pending cases. Look, maybe it's not the law that should solve this, but the right personal conclusions at the National Bank. In addition, by knowing the activities of the National Bank, we know well what profits have been recorded in the conversion of foreign exchange loans, which would be in the pockets of the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian people should be compensated for. Instead, you distribute this money through foundations to yoga teachers, friends, acquaintances, all kinds of instructors and voodoos. I think this has to stop. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-166	Dear Parliament, The Vice-President has a rejoinder. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! I do not know what errors you refer to, and on what basis you criticize the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. I think we need to understand, understand what this mansion decision means. The consequences of this should also be understood, and it should also be understood that this is a technical matter, and the technical matter can be dealt with by a rapid amendment of the law. Accordingly, I believe that the National Bank of Hungary welcomes the amendment of the law to be submitted by the government, which allows the central bank to conduct a separate procedure in the case of non-revisionary lawsuits concerning its supervisory decisions. Therefore, this legal situation can be clarified, but once again, this should be treated as a technical matter. I ask with respect that you treat her the same way. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-19-168	I thank the Vice-President for his reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:47 p.m., and we're going to talk about oral questions. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister:. What would be enough for the 13 billion forints used fraudulently in the Elios case if it had been spent on the health of Hungarian people? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Yes, we are here on the same case, Elios, the son-in-law scandal, because this may be the biggest corruption case in recent years, which OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, has discovered, because it talks about organised crime, it talks about cheating European money, and it literally names the prime minister's son-in-law, who has been involved in the operation of this network. We have also talked a lot about this today, how this turned out and what it looked like, but we have talked little about how this will cost Hungarian taxpayers 13 billion forints. 13 billion forints, what we say, could have been used to improve the state of the rescue stations, or even to increase the wages of paramedics and paramedics, but the Hungarian government will give up this, the Hungarian taxpayers will resign, as the activity of the Prime Minister's son-in-law means that the taxpayers will have to pay back to the European Union. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask where the government is going to take the money to pay back this 13 billion forints if the European Commission obliges you to do so. Have you considered blocking István Tiborcz's assets? What does the government think 13 billion forints would be enough for in health care? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-02-19-170	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[16.50]]
u2018-02-19-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't know if I'd be honored to have an answer. You're asking your questions based on a hypothesis based on a hypothesis from campaigns. I can also ask questions, but let us state, for example, in the case itself, that the Szekszárd body of representatives voted unanimously on this development, including your Socialist fellow Member. He should be asked about this line of assumptions. He asked what would have happened if we could have spent this supposed money on the health of Hungarian people. Congressman, you've got a lot to do, too. Calculate how much of the money could have been spent for this purpose, for example, in connection with Metro 4 or what could have been done with the billions of Csaba Czeglédy's, the damage caused by the parking in Szeged, the loss of billions of dollars when the Hungarian branch in Moscow was lost. Congressman, that's too bad. It's a shame to go into this, and it's a pity to go to a sloppy ground where you're the first to go. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why does the government focus only on visual investment in Upper Szabolcs? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, Every day we hear new reports of money coming to Kisvárda again. A stadium is now being built, and the third largest handball hall in the country, a water park, a tennis academia and a thermal water horse rehab center. Who's gonna run the stadium, the handball hall, the tennis academy? Who's gonna rehabilitate injured, sick horses in thermal water? And the most important question arises: who will rehabilitate the injured, sick Hungarian people? Who will keep young people home so that they do not move to the capital or to the western part of the country and, worse than that, abroad? Not so long ago, news flashed that from 273 million forints, Kisvárdán cinema park was built with an exotic poor quarter, which would present the poor district of Twist Olivér in England. Do we want the poor quarter? Do you have to spend hundreds of millions on this? Well, I don't think so. Look around our area, Mr. Secretary of State. We'll find the poor, and there'll be enough poor quarters. It comes with experience and excitement. The excitement of whether they will come out of the monthly salary, public wages, or pension, will be enough money for yellow checks, bills, meals, clothing. Because in our county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, the lowest average earners, the lowest pensions, but this is where most of the unemployed live. You know, Secretary of State, it would be much more important than a heated lawn, at the thermal water horse rehabilitation center, to rehab injured and sick people, and at the construction of the exotic poor district, to build new homes. According to KSH, in our county there are only two new apartments per year for ten thousand inhabitants, while the national average is more than four times that. Dear Secretary of State, Our constituency is not just Kisvárda. Developments and subsidies should be grouped not only here but also in a proportionate manner in the countryside. People who live there want to thrive in their own homeland. I ask why in the last eight years you have forgotten the other settlements of the Upper Szabolcs region. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-02-19-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-175	Thank you very much. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government has not forgotten at all about Upper Szabolcs. Clearly, the development of Kisvárda affects the entire county. Mr President, Mr President, you have grouped developments from a rather narrow opposition point of view. Please believe me that in 38 years of stay, I've learned how to put together a bouquet of democracy, but just as I was wrong on occasion, you're not right now either. Yes, Kisvárda is developing and the surrounding settlements, including Szabolcs Felső, benefit from the development of the agglomeration in Kisvárda. By the way, if your local knowledge in this area is significantly better than mine, so allow me to mention settlements, I'll just give you an example. Logistic Kft. on a tower wand. Its metal plant is handed over with 150 jobs, and exceptional equipment and infrastructure developments have taken place at the Upper Szabolcs Hospital, a new surgical block has been developed. There's a lot going on in Upper Szabolcs. If you say it's not enough, you have to do more than that, then you're absolutely right. But the one-sided setting, Congressman, please don't accept it either. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-19-176	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Márta Demeter and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister: "Do you have a plan for the government to solve the problems of education? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject, has been appointed. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary will answer the question. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2018-02-19-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Does the government have a plan to solve the problems of education? What do they send to Hungary less than two months before the elections? What we see is that serious problems need to be solved. The LMP has a publicly available program that we proudly undertake, but where's the government's program? Hungarian families face the fact that there is not enough nursery space. In addition, the number of crèches has decreased. In 2016 there were 48,000 seats, in 2017 there were only 46 500 seats. Where are the cradle seats? Today, only 16 percent of the children have room here. According to the LMP, an immediate day care facility is needed and the family care fee is abolished. The government promised 60,000 seats. Where are these improvements? In public education, students have protested in recent weeks, made their requests, called the government to debate. They want to reconcile, solve problems, reduce overload, abolish restrictions on freedom of speech, introduce education for critical thinking. The LMP fully supports students' requests, but why is the government shutting down from hearing students? Do you support the 12 points of the Independent Student Parlament? Higher education is getting harder to get into. The number of former students fell from 100,000 to 70,000 in eight years, while despite the decline in population, the number of age groups did not fall by 30 percent. LMP would open the doors to higher education more widely, make the first three degrees free of charge, extend the family allowance and tax relief until the young age of 24. But what's the government planning? That is what I am looking forward to, Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-02-19-178	Welcome, fellow Members. We apologize for this half-minute technical difficulty until the actual change of president has taken place. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It may also be chatty that half the faction in the LMP is needed to address an educational issue, because it is considered so important that the first person hands it over to the second person, the second person does not come into the meeting, but a third person is asked to read the question a few minutes before the presentation. This also shows how the issue of education is actually dealt with in the LMP. I'd like to trust some of your factual errors to draw attention to it, not a slippage, but a mistake. It wasn't 48,000 Cradle seats, it was 39 935. Your experts have added numbers that do not belong to the basic number of cradle institutions. Compared to 39,935, there are now 46,760, so there is a noticeable rise here. As you said, the government has a hundred billion-dollar grant to further increase nursery and kindergarten seats. That's what we're gonna do. Compared to 2010, there has been a 13 thousand increase in the number of places to accommodate children under three years of age. This year many, especially in smaller settlements, will be handed over many newer and newer cradles. Not only have we multiplied resources, not only have we increased resources, not only have we grouped development money here, but we have also adapted the legislative environment to the needs of families. [[17.00]] Therefore, if you look at the international surveys, Hungary will get one of the first places in almost all of them, where the intraday supervision of children under the age of 6 is examined, since we have 95.3 percent of children in kindergarten education, which is important precisely because this is how we can prevent later differences. And allow me to tell you that when we took over the possibility of government, 19 percent of the population had a degree, now 22.8%. A lot of things have contributed to this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'll tell you that next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-19-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr State Secretary, I respectfully tell you that István Ikotity, notary, is one of the questioners, so he acted legally without further ado when he read and said the parliamentary question. Dear Parliament, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question: how quickly can we continue to work together on the development of roads, including the elimination of existing inland roads in Budapest? It's an address. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary of State. Budapest is not only the country, the capital of the nation, but it is now one of the most dynamically developing cities in Europe, perhaps the most livable and one of the most popular tourist destinations thanks to its security. That's why we in Budapest like to live here, among other things. Although there are many debates in Budapest, it can be concluded that in the last eight years the city has improved more than in the previous twenty, thanks to Fidesz among others. In comparison, the majority of Budapest's corruption scandals and pointless investments led by the left were famous. However, after 2010, a new period began: new public institutions, renewable public spaces, sports investments, the Liget project, international events. We are proud that Fidesz has done more for Budapest than any other political party. If I'm just looking at my own constituency, things are going well in this regard. We have seven years of unbroken development, thanks, among other things, to the debt transfer and the government's direct contribution to the renovation of kindergartens, schools and clinics by nearly HUF 2 billion. [[István Ikotity replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat. Attila Gelencsér takes his place as notary.]] Nevertheless, there is still work to be done, one of which is that the pregnant heritage of the past has not yet been eradicated everywhere for the inland roads in Budapest. The weight of the problem is indicated by the fact that Fidesz's Budapest selection has also urged the launch of a programme for the elimination of urban roads in Budapest over a year ago. In particular, the outer districts are affected by this problem of accessing only certain areas on earth for thousands of miles. This is not just the 16th. district, but also the problem of all the outer districts of the capital. I am convinced that one of the capitals of Central Europe must not remain pregnant with dirt roads. On this basis, I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, whether we can expect assistance such as before, by means of which: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a few years from now, the roads in Budapest can be eliminated. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-02-19-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-183	Honourable Congressman, Taking into account the decision of the election, I can assure you, on the part of the government, that the government is in favour of these goals, and that it will take and take the necessary decisions. I would like to inform you that the government has decided to grant more than half a billion dollars to the metropolitan districts to renovate inland roads, sidewalks and bridges. As far as the results so far are concerned, in the period after 2010, nearly 4 thousand kilometres of roads were renewed in the investments of the public road operator. This year we will spend more than HUF 100 billion on renovating the existing road network. As far as the new roads are concerned, it is also important that since 2010, 670 kilometers of new roads have been completed, worth more than 1100 billion forints. And as far as the future is concerned, we plan to build a new motorway section or main road of 900 kilometres by 2022 compared to the current 1500 kilometres. I would also like to say to you that more than 70 percent of the projects mentioned in the Government Decision are already under construction procurement for public investors and, at the same time, the roads in the capital can be constantly renewed. In this case, you can count on the government's support under all circumstances. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-19-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Bertalan Tóth, Head of the MSZP Group, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question:. Forbidden party funding in the Odex case? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on behalf of Prime Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will answer the question. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm always happy to hear exactly what this ministry is called; we simply call it propaganda, so it's much easier for us. And I do not want to deal with the biggest corruption scandal in recent years, which is about a criminal organisation, according to the European Anti-Fraud Office, and in which the Prime Minister's son-in-law was involved, but a case that has led to the punishment of opposition parties by the State Audit Office and demanding very serious sums of money from them, while Fidesz made this mistake, and during his recent campaign, he received a discount for posting posters that both the State Audit Office and the Government Office both rebutted. I would just like to say here to Parliament that when the MSZP revealed this abuse, it did not even indicate to the government office that there had been an abuse, we could not even mail our announcement to the government office, the government office felt that, outside the administrative procedure, it had to be decided immediately that no legislation had been violated by Fidesz. So I would also like to congratulate you, Mr Secretary, on the fine operation of the government offices. When it comes to Fidesz, you don't even have to wait for the petition, but the verdict that you're sending them, obviously, can be read in public. So what we're talking about here is that Fidesz received a discount of approximately HUF 28 million in this propaganda campaign. I would like to ask you when the government is going to admit that the government agencies are obviously involved here, that this poster company has illegally financed Fidesz, and that they are still initiating at the government office to investigate whether, despite reading their statement, the verdict, there has been a illegal posting of posters. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Fidesz is responsible for this issue as a party and not for the government. They can be asked, but the genre here is not the most appropriate genre, because the government can be asked here. Nevertheless, I would like to say to you what I already know from the public, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the competent authority has actually examined the matter, perhaps, and has concluded that the contract is lawful, by the way, with the company with which you have concluded a contract before, under left-wing governance. The Authority concluded that Fidesz and Odex acted in full compliance with the legal requirements at the time of the conclusion of the contract. This is a resolution from last week. The reason you have a strange suggestion is because you have a candidate for Prime Minister, and he has an advisor who is, by the way, a media lawyer, he also said that Fidesz's contract is legal. In these circumstances, two cases are possible: you may have been misinformed in view of the confusion in the MSZP, it would not be surprising at all, probably not looking at the law properly, but you may also be very aware of the facts, but you think that for whatever reason it is possible to mislead the public. One scenario is worse than the other, so for our part we have nothing more to add. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-19-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Csító, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: . How much do the legitimate demands of the Turkish people expect? It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén has the floor. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2018-02-19-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, Törökbálin is in a special transport node that is unique in Hungary, with three motorways and a main railway line crossing over a few square kilometres: on the outskirts of the settlement there is a highway and a highway, M1 and M0 and one crossing, the M7, which is a very heavy load of dust and noise for about 14 thousand inhabitants of the settlement. In order to alleviate this problem, urban civilians started collecting signatures and sending their petition to your ministry in the summer of 2014. I have already asked you a written question on this subject, specifically the Secretary of State has given me the answer, which is rather meaningless that a noise measurement is being carried out and that the necessary steps are being taken on the basis of this result. To my knowledge, a study was carried out years ago, which, to say the least, is outdated, but in many cases the expected measures are rejected. I am aware that serious changes, which also have budgetary implications, such as building a noise barrier, require greater caution. On the other hand, there are points in the request that, if there is an intention, they can be easily met. I'd like to think here on the affected section of highway M7 to extend the speed limit of 100 kilometers per hour to the M0. Dear Secretary of State, What has happened in the last four years, why have the legitimate demands of the people of Turkish Balin not been dealt with in substance? The noise measurement referred to is outdated years ago, so it is legitimate to ask whether a new measurement is planned. At least the simplest step, i.e. the expansion of the speed limit, would you like to take in the distance of about a kilometer? Since the section concerned is in the area where the M7 motorway cuts the city in half, this simple and not-high-cost step would be a great help to the people in the area. To sum up, do you finally want to take meaningful steps to solve the problem? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Especially with the current MP being your secretary of state? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A professional answer to a professional question, and I will start with the point: professionally it is not easier to reduce speed, because on the motorway there is an increased risk of accidents. For my part, I find the noise barrier simpler, although it costs money, but it is indeed a professional issue. You are absolutely right that the previous survey is outdated, the traffic is different, the built-in is different, so I am happy to inform you that, on the basis of Mr András Aradszki's initiative, the Institute of Transport Sciences Kft. He created a strategic noise map for the whole city. On the basis of the noise map, the Ministry of National Development is currently examining the sections concerned, the possibilities for possible noise protection measures and their technical content. So the thing is on the table, and we hope that the wallet that I have led will make the right decisions as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: "Is it possible to develop a beach and build a swimming pool in Kiskunhalas? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-193	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Kiskunhalas, the centre of my constituency, has a high-quality thermal water, which offers enormous opportunities, as demonstrated by the fact that the local thermal bath was certified in 2015. Although some settlements in the area already have a beach with a strong attraction, most still believe that there would be grounds for developing Kiskunhalas' beach. This would also be important for the population of the city, who would probably visit the beach in a much larger number than the current one, and would also be important for the tourist development of the city. The locals could hear a lot of promises about the development of the beach. For example, Gábor Bányai, the Fidesz representative of the constituency, promised historical beach development in 2014, and nothing has been achieved since then. Meanwhile, in other settlements, where there is a parliamentary representative who can lobby for his settlement, they have actually achieved results, and we can see serious, multibillion-dollar beach developments, such as Nagykanizsán, Makón, Debrecen, Esztergomán, Kisvárdán, and we can still name the more fortunate settlements. In addition to the lack of beach development, I have to mention the situation of local swimming sport, because the city swimmers are achieving significant results nationwide and represent Kiskunhalas and our country at international level. Nevertheless, athletes can only train in a 19 - meter pool under undeserving conditions compared to their level. Dear Secretary of State, So I'm going to ask you why while other cities have been improved, this has not been achieved in the case of Kiskunhalas. Why didn't Kiskunhalas have any beach development or swimming pool construction? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, the question could be answered very briefly, namely: bath development is the competence of the operator and owner, so it depends on the decisions of the municipality and has information. [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] But he asked why there was a development elsewhere. In Hungary, the target and tool system of public tourism management is defined in the document entitled "The National Tourism Development Strategy 2030" and the various developments, strategies, ideas and specific projects that will take place in the future will take place within this strategy. If the Municipality of Kiskunhalas is able to submit development applications according to them, then obviously this spa will also develop. However, for the sake of fairness, it should be noted that, under current rules, there is currently no possibility to support the development of baths from EU sources available for tourism development. [[Gergely Farkas: Government solution should be...]] That is why I said the EU.
u2018-02-19-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Will there be a prison in Kunmadaras? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]]
u2018-02-19-197	Dear Secretary of State, The question is rightly raised, as my fellow Member is saying behind my back, what will happen to the prisons that the government has promised and whose construction is planned, because since 2010 there has been a space extension programme, which will help us to work out the EU's expectations and our disadvantages according to all standards. In the framework of this program, the government decided that eight new prisons would be built, including the Grand Kunmadara of the Grand Kunság, this would have been a thousand-person facility. I'm saying there would have been, because even though BVOP started training the workers, and according to their information, it did happen, there's almost nothing to hear about the construction, and it's not the first time I've asked what's going to happen or if there's going to be something going on with the prison. Those who visit the former Soviet airport and see how the work is progressing see that, in essence, beyond the destruction, there was nothing to do with it, nor was it likely to be related to the preparation of the prison. Thus, more and more people see that this was a promise that they wanted to win over local people, even though they expected that the new and job-creating investment would take place. In view of the fact that many have already undertaken and imagined their future to work in prison, have undertaken the training involved, have completed the necessary courses and schools, they are now facing the need to leave their neighbourhoods, have to leave their homeland and have to work in other cities because the prison in their settlement is unlikely to recover. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what is the situation with the prison in Kunmadaras. Does the government still plan to build the prison? What other jobs do you need to do to build a prison? Is there any obstacle to building a prison, or is it possible to know who is the builder of this prison? When do you expect to build a prison if you can expect something like that? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Please answer by saying that the inhabitants of the Great Community, the inhabitants of Kunmadaras, are waiting and watching for your answer. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-02-19-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the subject of prison building, Jobbik's opinion seems to be contradictory, as here you are pushing for prison building in Kunmadaras, worrying about job creation and possibly workers, while on 24 October 2017, the oral question from the faction was directed at and urged that there should not be a prison hospital in Berettyóújfalu. [[Dr. László György Lukács: It's completely different!]] [[17.20]] So it is clear that they are trying to get people to work against the prison hospital for political gain, or just when they think they want their interest, then they are asking a question about building a prison. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Will it or not?]] Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary knows its duty and knows that prison places must be enlarged. One of the main reasons for this is that in Hungary, the reduction of crime was accompanied by the fact that criminals went to prisons, and here they must be protected from getting out. To do this, the necessary overcrowding must be removed, and the government also issued a government decree in 2016, which also marked the sites of construction. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Is it or isn't it?]] In 2010, the prison enforcement organisation launched a capacity extension programme, which, by internal transformation of existing prisons, increased prison space by about one and a half thousand with the development of new sections. In addition, I can say that about 90 percent of prisoners are working in prisons today, and we hope that they will also participate in the prison expansion programme. [[Dr. István Apáti: But that was not the question!]] The government has decided to build the prison. This resolution is still alive, and it will happen. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-02-19-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:21 p.m., and we're at the end of questioning. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. T/1994 on the amendment of Act T/1974 on the need for a binding Prime Minister-designate debate. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the group leader of the MSZP Group, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-02-19-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a normal democracy, such an amendment of the law would not be necessary, and it would not be necessary for the Prime Minister to be forced to debate. We can therefore argue that we would like to include this proposal in a series of subjects so that we can debate whether it is necessary, let us say, to report on the activities of a Prime Minister, which looks at the past period and whether it is necessary to face the criticisms that his challengers are making. I think, as I have already said, that this would be necessary in a normal democracy, because voters should be informed as widely as possible about what a given election is about. Obviously, such a bill would be smiled in the United States, smiling in any Member State of the European Union other than us... [[Noise from Jobbik's benches.]] Mr. President [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. Three more minutes, fellow Members, and then you can have the floor. So they would smile at such a suggestion. Unfortunately, Hungary is now at a point where the Prime Minister simply refuses to argue. But he refuses to participate in any forum, to take advantage of any opportunity to confront, where questions could be asked, because we can see that he has not been in Parliament for three weeks, when we wanted to ask him about the lies of the anti-refugee campaign, about the tens of billions of forints spent on a fake propaganda from taxpayers' money, while the neighbors, friends, friends, and the Habony commando were enriched by it. Just as today we have not been able to ask the questions about the biggest corruption scandal in recent years: the Elios case, as we call it, the son-in-law, the report that the European Anti-Fraud Office has placed on the table that you have tried to hide, but it has finally been made public that the organised criminal network has been sucking on European Union funds under the heading of public lighting modernisation, and one of the organisers of this organized criminal group is the prime minister's son-in-law, which would have been a very rude scandal about which it would have been good for the Prime Minister to clarify the role of his or his family. Well, this proposal would record a mandatory presidential candidate debate five days or ten days before the parliamentary elections, where the list leaders of the parliamentary parties that have drawn up the national list could argue, on the one hand, to present their own programme and to express their criticism of each other, and, on the other hand, five days before the election, the most popular challenger and the candidate of the Prime Minister would be held. That's what this bill contains. I would like Parliament to take this into account, so I ask my fellow Members to support this. In fact, this is an awareness-raising bill, which draws attention to the fact that the candidate for Prime Minister Fidesz does not wish to argue before the elections, and I think that this is not a masculine act. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Fraction Manager said that this is a call for attention for the purpose. We can agree on the reason for raising awareness, and we would expect there to be a presidential candidate debate, I would add. There's a bit of a problem here, so if the Parliament were to decide on a series of subjects, then some legal correction would be necessary. But let's just stick to the message that, not only there is no debate on the Prime Minister's candidacy, there is no debate. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only will there be no conflict between the candidates for Prime Minister, where there is one, or any party programme at all, Fidesz could not have written in the previous elections, nor have we heard of any kind of programme, but this concerns the debate on the Prime Minister's candidacy, but also the local parliamentary candidates do not go to the debates. But I'm going to go further, because if we're going down the steps, the mayor's candidates and the local government's candidates have not participated in the municipal debates, and the public debate is starting to disappear. I am convinced that they can do so until the voters send a message, so far and no longer. I trust this will happen on April 8th. And if there comes a point where you fail and you don't understand why it happened, then between all the reasons and the different causes and the reasons that stand together, it's certain that you will be involved, because I think people are sick of the fact that there are people who feel over everyone, and they won't even sit down for a debate. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: There was no debate now.]] I will ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, two minutes.
u2018-02-19-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, indeed, we are now faced with the fact that Fidesz is not even willing to argue about the debate here in Parliament, because we have not heard a reason why they are avoiding and fleeing from the possibility of debate, but we can see that they are now being restrained here in Parliament and do not want to argue with us anymore. Thank you for the support of my fellow Member, Mr Vice-President of the Group. I think that it would be worth a debate in Parliament whether politicians should argue or not. I believe that a civilised debate can be the basis of a democratic rule of law, and that would be expected not only in the Parliament, not only in the candidates for Prime Minister, but indeed also in local politicians. I am sure that not only would the Hungarian society and voters be open to false, well-paid and lie-based propaganda, but they would also be open to a fair debate on well-established proposals. [[17 .30]] I trust that tomorrow Parliament will make a wise decision and will take this proposal into consideration. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on T/19594 on the protection of a fair procedure and the transparency of public funding in order to eliminate the enrichment of fidesz oligarchs from public money. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, leader of the group, on behalf of the authors, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-02-19-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, What would be a more up-to-date proposal than this proposal or package of proposals, as we call it, the'stop oligarch' package, which includes this bill. After all, it is not only the biggest corruption scandal in Hungary at present that is affected by this bill, but I am thinking of eight years of Fidesz in the last eight years, and my fellow Members are also thinking about their crimes, and this package of proposals would serve some level of recovery of the public funds that have been passed in it. After all, we can remember when the post-account reports came, how much dividends and money Lajos Simicska took from his company empire, his poster company, his media company, his construction companies. Then we heard that Lőrinc Mészáros, the non-strony, richest gasman in the world, took a billion and a half forints as a dividend from a company that he forgot to post in his declaration of assets, and it turns out he didn't even know that he took all this money. But now it is also made public that the son-in-law of Fidesz Prime Minister's candidate, the current Prime Minister, obtained an extra profit of HUF 1.5 billion in 2014-2015 thanks to Elios Zrt. owned by Közép. This is the well-known crime-network fraud that the European Anti-Fraud Office has established. So there would be room for a package of laws that closes once and for all the gates that are today... the Prime Minister's family, the Prime Minister's friend, the Prime Minister's gas mechanic, his driver, and I don't know who else has access to billions of public money from taxpayers' money. Now this regulation would put an end to this absconding of Hungary, disrupt institutionalised corruption, increase transparency, competition in public procurement and create full publicity of procurement grant contracts, and at some level recover the State's funds which can be proven to have been unduly collected from taxpayers. Obviously, this is not an easy task, because corruption now operates as a state system in Hungary, which, as we can hear here, is directly affected by this system, at least through its family. So this system could be liquidated. On the one hand, it would require full publicity of EU grants and contracts for the exploitation of national assets, and on the other hand it would introduce brakes that would prevent and prevent corruption. For example, if a person did not perform his activities publicly and, therefore, failed to disclose his publication obligation, his application would not be eligible for evaluation and could not be contracted with him. So there would be dams that would save about a thousand billion forints for taxpayers, which the government has opened for its oligarchs, which would be immediately closed, and I probably wouldn't dare to think of how many tens or hundreds of thousands of forints would be saved for the taxpayers if this chip were finally closed. Thus, it would not be possible for the Prime Minister, the relative or family member of any politician, to be involved in such matters. So there is now an opportunity for the Prime Minister to clarify himself, there is an opportunity for you to clear the Prime Minister by adopting such legislation. I am very confident that we can include it in a series of subjects, and we can debate how to eliminate this amazing corruption system and network once and for all in Hungary. Obviously, it's not the Parliament's job, but we can see that the D.A.'s office isn't so interested in this. But believe me, those responsible will be held accountable sooner or later. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask if the factions want to speak. Of course, the independent Members also have this two-minute opportunity. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, the goal that we can support was that Jobbik had a number of similar proposals aimed at cleaning up public life, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, at investigating illegal enrichment and the past eight years of corrupt, unacceptable economic growth that has gone beyond the law in many cases. But since, as I said, we can agree with the goal, we also support this. I do ask that question, and after 90, it is possible to address it to all governments that no one has noticed, the Hungarian people have noticed, by the way, that here we are talking about a cautious estimate of the nation after 90 times the Hungarian government's government debt was stolen. Regardless, we don't see those responsible. This is either a deficiency in the legal environment or the inadequacy and accomplice of law enforcement agencies. There's no other way. But since many of our legislative amendments were rejected and said that the laws were good, and when, by the way, we raised the responsibility of the D.A.'s chiefs, the answer was that they were doing their job well, so the problem is that the money will continue to disappear or land in a place where they shouldn't. So, for this reason, the time has come for not only the last eight years, but for the past 30 years, someone to review the political violence and do whatever it takes to get these stolen assets back. If this fails in certain cases, then at least we can get to know those responsible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since no further speeches have been made by Members, I will now ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-02-19-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you again for the statement of support from Mr. Deputy Group Leader. Indeed, there are many ways to eliminate once and for all this state-organised corruption network that the current Prime Minister has organised in this country. That is the point of this, so that the proposal can be debated here, within the walls of this House. And now I'm starting to worry a little bit about my fellow Members sitting here with Fidesz because I'm saying those sentences to the boss here, and you're not even gonna protect him, so that we don't have any trouble later. But I may have been able to convince you then, and you will support the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles in the vote tomorrow. So thank you so much for listening.
u2018-02-19-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member and the representatives who supported her have proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/18293 on the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. [[17.40]] The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. I will naturally give the floor to Mrs Zsuzsa Szelényi, on behalf of the rapporteur, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-213	Thank you very much. Dear House, For the eighth time in the last four years, I have presented to you the issue of ratification of the International Convention against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention. So far, it has not been possible to put on the agenda because of the opposition of the ruling parties, despite the fact that this government has already signed this treaty in 2014, so it is almost incomprehensible what has happened since then. However, I am not surprised, as you have never supported any proposal over the past four years to reduce prejudice against women or to reduce the disadvantage of women. They did not support my proposal to introduce father's leave in order to involve men in raising young children. They did not support my cradle certificate proposal, which was about how parents, when they work, can decide in a flexible way how and how they intend to manage their child's care. You were not interested in equal pay between women and men, and, of course, as 95 percent men, you were not interested in introducing a female quota, which would have helped more women to sit in the Fidesz faction if necessary. Yet you have fought with all your might to put this agreement, the Istanbul Convention, on the agenda of this House. With the last effort this morning, the Justice Committee voted against my proposal to establish an ethical code for hundreds of people working within Parliament in order to prevent sexual harassment at work. You don't think that's necessary either. It is true that the Speaker also wrote that he does not know such a thing, so this phenomenon obviously does not occur in this House. The Istanbul Convention is of particular importance in relation to every other matter, because it concerns the most fundamental relationship between women and men, living with dignity. Namely, it's about the abuse. I have been thinking very seriously about what might have caused you to reject this convention so vehemently and constantly, because it has never really come to my attention from the debate. In the end, I understood that you are opposed to this agreement because the preface to the Istanbul Convention states that violence comes from power and that violence must be combated because it undermines civilised social relations between women and men. This idea is simply unacceptable to you, to this government, because you represent an authoritarian world in which fatherly power, which is uncontroversial, prevails above all, and this convention does not share it. However, despite the fact that you do not allow women around the negotiating table, that you consider women to be weak and despised, the world does not stop. Hungarian women are progressing with age. They're smart, informed and motivated. And for them, this culture, which you represent, is totally unacceptable. There is already a phenomenon in Hungary that women migrate from small settlements in the first place. Because for them the life a village life in Hungary allows is simply unacceptable. But women wander from cities abroad, and they are the ones who will not come back, because this culture, which is so anti-female, is so arrogant and so violent, which you represented, is unacceptable to women. With your arrogance and arrogance, as you sit here representing 95% of your party, you will be left alone. This country will be eliminated, and young women will not come back here. It is no wonder that this is the case when you share what the Prime Minister does not care about women. You'll be surprised when women get bored of your regime first. And these women will replace this government. We women will change Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-19-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, One representative per group of representatives can now speak in a two-minute time frame or an independent representative in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask the factions who wants to speak. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, head of the group of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have the honour to say, on behalf of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Anita Heringes and Timea Szabó, that the group of MSZP supports the inclusion of this convention in the series of subjects and not only its inclusion in the series of objects, but also its content. I deeply agree with the arguments that the Member has just made, and it is completely incomprehensible that cowardly running away is the way that these Fidesz MEPs do not face and do not address the serious problem that such an agreement would at least give us the opportunity to combat this. I know the arguments that every male organisation puts forward in relation to the convention in order to protect the rights of men, as I say, this is said to be done and cowardly, if Hungary can't finally accept this agreement. So I confirm once again that the MSZP faction supports the application for a series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Staudt Gábor is next. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We had a lot of discussions on the Istanbul Convention in the Judicial Committee, and it is true that Fidesz's position was first of all to abstain, and then went towards the gender instead. I myself do not know the reason for this either, especially because, at first, when the rejection was not so strong, Róbert Répássy spoke from his mouth, and it was quite right to say that the definitions that could be attached to ratification can ensure that this agreement is consistent with the Hungarian Fundamental Law. I'll tell you the truth, you can read extreme opinions from both camps in the press. So, extremely conflicting opinions, which, if you look at and stay on the ground of sobriety, you can see that these opinions have been thrown away from reality in both directions and have been thrown away from what this convention is about. By the way, this convention protects not only women and girls, but men, boys and little boys in the same way. Obviously, placing women and little girls more strongly at the centre of protection is not surprising, as they suffer a greater number of similar acts. So, in itself, the emphasis on this is not surprising. Of course, however, if there are male sacrifices or boy sacrifices, they are equally extended. So we can certainly support the inclusion of the series of objects, but I think it is important to say that in the definition, the Hungarian Parliament still has work to do with the proposal, but I believe that this work can be done by the government and the Parliament, and that it will indeed be able to ratify it in a way that will move the Hungarian legal system forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-19-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zoltán Demeter is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and However, I would like to reject most of the accusations you have made above all, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, and on the proposal for a resolution on the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, I would like to make it very clear that we agree with you and with you as rapporteurs on a great deal of things. We agree, in any case, that we condemn any physical and psychological violence or, as you said, condemn any kind of treatment. . In fact, we also agree on the fact that the state must do everything it can to prevent it. I believe that there is no debate between us in this part of the matter, and I even assume that there is no debate between all Hungarian parliamentary parties in this respect. [[17.50]] So where's the debate? The debate is basically there, which has already been said by the Member, that the proposal would introduce genders rather than gender identity, and we cannot agree with that. During the judicial committee meetings, as you said, we have discussed this subject many times and expressed our views. Therefore, in view of what has been said, I can say that the Fidesz fraction does not support the inclusion of the decision proposal in the series. Thank you.
u2018-02-19-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi, as rapporteur, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the signal of Zsuzsanna Szelényi:]] Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. It's got a two-minute time frame.
u2018-02-19-221	Thank you very much for your reactions, statements of support and comments. There have indeed been discussions in the Judicial Committee, but whether this convention is adopted by the Hungarian Parliament or not, it has a message character. Even if you say, dear Zoltán Demeter, that you condemn violence, but if that doesn't have any consequences, then the word is in vain. It is the actions that can show the inhabitants of Hungary what you think or don't think. If but... but they don't support it, it means they don't support it. I'm better at this case, by the way, because I've contacted civil society organisations that work in this area, and I know that you're actually secretly dealing with the fact that, for example, there are new safe houses under construction, which you didn't mention, because you don't know. But the thing is, prevention is what this convention is about, and you are not willing to do anything about prevention. I can't help but think that you have an ideological problem with this agreement, which is the most important part of this agreement, according to which the Istanbul Convention states that violence comes from power. In a sense, it doesn't matter whether it applies to women or against men, but of course, when you are secretly preparing, you are trying to arrange shelter for women, because you know that women are the primary victims of this very serious phenomenon, which destroys the lives of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. And when you call yourself a family government, you are unable to contain the biggest problem that upsets families, which is violence. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-19-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 1994 XLV on war care. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. The submission submitted by János Lázár, Zoltán Balog, Imre Vas fideszes and István Simicskó, colleagues from KDNP T/19773. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the derogation from the adopted house rule, the opening speech and the closing clause will have a total of 10 minutes, 5 minutes for the government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 5 minutes for the group's speeches and 3 minutes for the opposition of the independent Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 10 minutes to present the opening speech and the possible closing phrase in the debate; I would ask you to comply with this. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the amendment of the law on war care just submitted to the Parliament is to increase the regular care of former war orphans, ex-military and former warded family members from HUF 8810 to HUF 10 000 after the Second World War. The number of former orphans, ex-armed and ex-military family members currently receives a total of 74,000 per month in the care of war, of which nearly 49 thousand were ex-armed, 25 thousand were ex-armed and 125 were former warded family members. Until 31 December 2017, this benefit, this payment was HUF 8550, and by the power of the law it rose to HUF 8810 from 1 January, and the bill aims to increase this amount to HUF 10 000 with effect from 1 January, and otherwise, according to the law already in force, it will rise every year with the rate of the pension increase. So this is actually an extraordinary 1190 HUF increase for those receiving such care, and the increase will happen every year. The proposal provides for an increase from 1 January 2018 on the way in which the benefit for the month of January-February should be paid ex post after the adoption of the law. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-19-224	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you have used 2 minutes 22 seconds of the 10-minute time frame, and you will have the opportunity to say the closing word accordingly. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government, if he wishes to make use of the five-minute opportunity to speak. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-02-19-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur Members for this proposal, according to which former orphans of war, ex-military workers and the monthly payment of former warded family members. I think it is important that this is happening retroactively, and it is also important that we can accept this in this cycle. The Government naturally supports the proposal and I ask my fellow Members to support it with their vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-19-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-02-19-227	Thank you very much for the floor. I inform the Parliament that, under the derogation from the adopted house rules, today, just an hour ago, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1994 XLV on war care. T/19773. and the committee submitted a report with 26 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. At the committee meeting, what I just said was that there was a debate on when the increase would be made; I do not wish to repeat that. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[18.00]]
u2018-02-19-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no minority opinion was requested, Mr Vas Imre's speech exhausted the time to present the Commission's opinion. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 5-5 minutes and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal for war care is in front of the House for the third time in this term. This has been a consensual proposal before, and as we have listened to the rapporteur in the Commission, it seems to be the same before this House. Raising the monthly allowance for former war orphans and former wards, we think it's important. As I said, we have already discussed the proposal for war care on two occasions. Here, Jobbik's representatives have proposed a change in the direction to make this payment higher. Now that this increase is being made, of course Jobbik will support this and will be exhausted in its votes tomorrow, we will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-02-19-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Péter Agh. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-02-19-231	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The Parliament, with respect to the XX. In the first century, in World War II, he died a heroic death on the relatives of crippled soldiers, and in 1994 he created a law on war care. On the basis of the Act 94, however, families whose relatives lost their lives as members of the Hungarian Royal Defence Office between 1938 and 1945, who had lost their lives in the period between 1938 and 1945, who, for political reasons, could not submit their claims for war care in the period after 1945, or who were deprived of war care for political reasons in 1949, could not receive lump sums or monthly benefits. On the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the closure of the Second World War, in June 2015, the Parliament adopted almost unanimously the amendment of the Law on War Care, recognising the need for their sacrifice for political reasons, deprived of their entitlement to care, the orphan, half orphan, and the widow's absence of their childhood, to provide a fair allowance for the families who have raised their children, but who have endured hardships. With the 2015 amendment of the law, therefore, the widows, orphans, warfighters and war-care families of soldiers who died a heroic death in the ties of the Hungarian Royal Defence Office, or who were injured by war, are also subject to war care, regardless of which state they are currently nationals of. Former orphans, ex-military workers and ex-military family members were entitled under the law to a monthly benefit of HUF 8550, which increased to HUF 8810 per month with the amendment of the law in December 2016 in force from 1 January 2018. However, with the amendment of the 2016 law, there was a significant one-off increase in other paramilitary benefits. These increased benefits will then be increased annually by the percentage of the pension increase for the relevant year. Based on this, there was an increase in the benefit of the wards, the ward's allowance, the orphan's allowance, and the amount of the nursing allowance in relation to the individual wards' benefit classes. On the basis of the bill that my fellow Members have just tabled, the former orphans, ex-military workers and former war-care families could also have a one-off increase in their monthly allowance. The percentage of pension increases per year for the relevant year would increase their monthly benefits further. According to the bill, the monthly provision of former orphans, ex-military and ex-military family members, taking into account the amount of the increase by the percentage of the pension increase applicable for the given year under the provisions of the Law on War Care, would increase to HUF 10 thousand as already described by Imre Vas as of 1 January 2018. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We believe that, on the basis of the legislative amendment initiated by my fellow Members, all those who made sacrifices in the Second World War will receive even more equitable recognition. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-02-19-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak out against the existing timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. That concludes the consolidated debate. I would like to ask, on behalf of the authors, Mr Imre Vas, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the remaining 7 minutes and 38 seconds. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-19-233	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who supported the departure from the house rules, so that we can hold a final vote on this bill tomorrow. I would like to thank the Members who will support the bill in advance. I hope that we will be able to adopt this bill by unanimous or very close unanimous vote. Obviously, the competent authorities will pay the allowance as soon as possible after publication. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-02-19-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, from Jobbik's group, asked for a speech: the problems of Érd and its region. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-19-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Recently, I have explored the problems of the district of Érd, the town of Érd, and it could also be said that I will be the candidate for Parliamentary Representative in the election of 8 April, as a Member of Parliament who is currently Regent. There are problems that are not only characteristic of this city, but also of all Pest neighbourhoods, I can say, the city and settlement of the agglomeration area. This is the lack of prospects for transport, the inability of transport, to put it this way. On the one hand, the state of the roads and the width of the roads are such that, to put it mildly, motor vehicles that wish to enter the capital every day, to get out of the capital city in the afternoon to their place of residence and to this area. This needs to be changed, and the condition, size and permeability of these roads must also be improved, because the problem will never be solved: in fact, there are several kilometres of traffic jams and several kilometres of untraceable roads in this area during the main periods. The situation of public transport, with the exception of some settlements, leaves something to be desired in this constituency. I could also say that there are only one or two cities that are in a favourable position, either by the involvement of public transport in Budapest or by the involvement of other public transport means. In many cases it is very difficult to enter the capital from other settlements, or it is very difficult to get out of the capital to these settlements. And speaking of the state of the roads, I had to face the fact that although the city of Érd, as a county-righted city, is participating in the program of modern cities, and it is very great news that there will be a stadium for Érd, like many other towns and cities that are participating in this program, unfortunately I had to experience that although it will have a stadium, there will be very spectacular investments in the city, but in a city with county rights, in a large city with a population of between 70 and 80 thousand, we still find roads that are not paved. From Budapest, to say the least, we can find a city with more than 70,000 people on one spit, which does not have asphalt roads. [[18.10]] I think that this would be more of a priority to renovate these roads, pave these roads, and then I did not mention the other five settlements that belong to this constituency, where in many cases the situation is even worse. Of course, improvements have been made, but these improvements, as well as the current priorities, should be subject to review in many cases. It is enough to mention as an example the sewerage of the town of Érd and the sewerage of settlements around it, whether Tárnok or Törökbálint, how the contracts took place there, on what basis the company that made this investment, this development, and how this development took place. In fact, it would also be worth examining whether the development has affected the population or not. We are talking about an area, as an agglomeration area, which would not only decrease in population, although the curse of emigration is tangible and visible here, but there are more residents. The town of Diósd was a few thousand inhabitants at the time of the change of regime, and today we are talking about a city over 10,000 people. Here in this town, for example, between 200 and 300 people have an increase in population per year. They are trying, they are trying to improve their institutional development, their institution expansions in line with this population growth, and many times this is beyond their strength. I think that there should be greater public intervention here, greater state support so that these municipalities can do their institutional development in the light of the growing population, do not have to resort to credit, do not have to indebte their settlements. The other major problem, however, is the very excessive Érdic focus of the constituency in many cases. Many improvements, although I am glad to see this happen in Érden, but many times other settlements, the other five settlements of the constituency, may be at a disadvantage, and in many cases these improvements do not reach these settlements. If I am given trust and elected, and the next Jobbik government wants to do the same, it wants to improve this region, and it wants to solve these problems together with other problems that do not fit in time. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2018-02-19-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your full day's work, thank you for keeping the record, the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament will continue its work at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Now I say good night to all of you. Meeting day's closed.
