u2018-11-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, Dear Enquiries! The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and György Szi-lágyi would like to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech: the tens of thousands of students will be eliminated with the title of government. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Orbán said three years ago that we cannot afford to have no Hungarian university in the first 200 places of the world's university rankings. He repeated that a year later. The fact is that the University of Szeged, BME and ELTE are preceded by the University of Ljubljana, the University of Jagello, the University of Charles from Prague and the University of Belgrade and Warsaw in the three major international rankings. In order to use your words, in higher education we have grown from a regional middle field in the last eight years, this government promise, which Prime Minister has said, is not only not fulfilled, but processes have started in the opposite direction, Hungarian universities are falling in international rankings, and that is because this is the essence of Fidesz's policy. The fact is that you are doing everything you can to ensure that higher education starts with dual training, until the support of vocational schools, is about manufacturing labour for the multinational companies you prefer, not the many of the people you've trained. To quote Róbert Puzsér:. This nation was assigned to Viktor Orbán's production line, the division of education serves this order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intercoms from opposition parties, among others: Who is Róbert Puzsér?]] It would be difficult to list the attack on Hungarian education below you, but already after the third two-thirds, Hungarian higher education has suffered so many attacks, which would be enough for ten years. You will always appoint an enemy, whether it is the banks or the former financiers of Fidesz, with whom you continue this hysteria that belongs to the psychodramatic group, but the fact is that their real enemy is higher education, their real enemy is that in Hungary there is high added value to the workforce, and not just to multinational companies. The fact is that so much money was withdrawn from higher education that a few days ago it turned out that the Chancellor had imposed restrictions on the three faculties of ELTE. [[Németh Szilárd István: That is not true!]] At the largest university in Hungary, one of the central universities of Budapest, in the chemistry department, where chemistry teachers are taught, there is no money for experiments, the experiments must be given orally; several teachers have said this, and that is why they are on strike. I know exactly that Mr. Secretary of State will be up in minutes, and he will say that we have always fought Oceania, that there is no tuition, that everything is fine, and that, by the way, the fence is made of sausage and ponies are running around on rainbows, but the fact is that, in contrast, the reality is that higher education is currently in such a state that chemistry teachers are unable to show chemistry experiments in Hungary. That's what the Secretary of State should be responding to. I am sure you will also say, Mr State Secretary, that the salaries of higher education workers have been increased. At present, the wages of beginners are humiliatingly low, it is not a competitive career to go to higher education to teach, and what is sadder is that no increase has been made to other staff supporting education and research in the last eight years. So everyone who doesn't do a specific teaching profession at a university, from administrative staff to those who, say, work with the building, didn't get any raises. I'll keep going. Perhaps one of the biggest problems that makes the problem of higher education difficult in addition to tuition is the very, very low proportion of college seats. To give just one example, the University of Debrecen currently has 4,800 dormitory seats, and the number of students is 26 thousand. The dorm space costs an average of 12-35 thousand forints, about 20 thousand forints, and an average rent in Debrecen is currently 88 thousand forints, and every year it rises by several thousand forints. This means that anyone who doesn't debrecen and wants to go to that university, actually, if it doesn't belong to the few thousand lucky people who have dorm seats, can't solve their housing. We do not have 80-90 thousand HUF for parents in Hungary today to pay the child's rent if he does not contribute to this in any way; moreover, the University of Debrecen, which is also a very important institution of Hungary, could still build dorm seats, there would be demand, there would be a possibility, yet you have done nothing to increase the number of dorm seats in Hungary. I would just like to say about CEU that the CEU is very interesting because the first thing I quoted from Prime Minister was that the Hungarian university was such a Hungarian university, CEU was such a Hungarian university, which, for example, was included in the top 200 in the ranking of economics; otherwise, it has always reached a higher ranking than that of your privateized Közgaz. I'm moving on. The Central European University, where I was taught by former State Secretary Zoltán Illés in the field of environmental protection, and I received two degrees, which at that time did not cause problems for their former State Secretary, precedes Hungarian universities in all rankings. On Wednesday, we will protest to stop their campaign against higher education and to finally ensure that Hungarian higher education is of good quality, as promised by Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are talking about the fact that Hungarian government is not giving enough weight to Hungarian higher education. Honourable Congressman, Between 2010 and 2019, the rate of higher education resources will increase by 46.1 percent in the Hungarian budget, with nearly one-and-a-half times what we spend on students and young people who want a degree compared to what we inherited from our predecessors. We've increased it one and a half times. In addition, we have, as you said, raised your wages by 15+5+5 per cent, 27 per cent overall. The economic stability of universities is well demonstrated by the fact that while universities had a debt of HUF 13 billion a few years ago, their debt expired, it decreased from 13.3 to 3 billion last year, while its money supply, which had previously been HUF 64 billion, decreased to HUF 289 billion. In the meantime, the government has also launched countless PPP projects, with 12 PPP projects worth HUF 29 billion in 16 years, resulting in additional savings of HUF 14 billion and HUF 5.3 billion in 17 and HUF 2 billion in 18. The management situation of universities today is much more stable than it was in 2010, and wages in higher education are much higher than they were in 2010. And I take that as a kind of confession, honourable Member, as you have spoken of the false news you have generated, the introduction of tuition fees. You know that it was Fidesz-KDNP ten years ago that prevented young Hungarians and Hungarian families from paying tuition fees. With whom you will join forces in an interim election, and will launch candidates together, Ferenc Gyurcsány, the MSZP and the other smaller opposition parties on the left, they were those who wanted to introduce a general tuition fee in 2008. So if you do a little bit of the events of the last ten years, you can see that Fidesz-KDNP was also due to Fidesz-KDNP in 2008 in Hungary, but that was already the case in 1998, even in 1998, Fidesz-KDNP abolished the first time it came to power to introduce a general tuition fee. In 2008 he was able to prevent the socialists from introducing ten years later a tuition fee, and now, what you said, the admission that you were actually producing false news. [[11.10]] At the moment, the LMP is in a very bad situation, all of their former presidents are blaming your current party, current faction, current representatives and politics, disavowing from the fact that there is no LMP president, co-chair, who does not distance himself from today's LMP, and does not pursue any other policy or withdraw from politics. In this desperate situation, you produce false news or, if necessary, release military classified information. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] In public, just to get them to work out over five percent. But don't play with the future of Hungarian youth, don't play with them (Desperity in the ranks of LMP. ) the stability of Hungarian families by spreading false news! Honourable Congressman, Have you read the news in the last few days? He said that Hungary is not preparing for high added value development projects, but came with all kinds of other Pussér quotes. Jaguar has brought its development centre to Hungary, and you will stand up in the Hungarian Parliament two days later and say that there are not development-type investments, but only small investments of added value. After Jaguar brings its development centre here, a few weeks after BMW brings one of its main manufacturing centres here, honourable Member, it is the daily news that disproves you, and precisely because this government is pursuing a policy that can make Hungary such an innovation centre. As far as state-funded and other higher education places are concerned, honourable Member, this year 62 thousand students were admitted to state-funded places, 59 000 students last year and 79 500 students overall, 77 thousand students were recruited last year. So this year, the number of students enrolled in higher education has also increased, and the number of students supported by the state has also increased. One of the largest number of people admitted to the IT program has increased by 35 percent since 2015, and if you look at the purpose of Hungary's National Reform programme to study at least 34 percent of the 30-34-year-olds in higher education, this has already been achieved in 2015 as it was 34.3 percent. The resources of higher education have therefore increased, the outsourcing of universities is much smaller than a few years ago, and it is good that in Hungary we are in the process of a transition to higher education, and we are in the process of responding to real labour market needs. And what you said about Soros University is that it's the best [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungarian University, which operates in a wooden house in America, honourable Member, and you believe that this is what Hungary should knock on, and this is the peak performance that is done in a wooden house in America, and this is the contempt of the entire Hungarian higher education sphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-4	I respectfully ask Members, as well as members of the government, to respect the time frame set by the house rules. Mr Sándor Székely, representative of the Democratic Coalition, will now take the floor before the agenda. It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You have been ruling this country for nine years and have been fighting all kinds of wars against the opposition, IMF, banks, George Soros, CEU and, of course, refugees for nine years. They do all this with an amazing amount of money, and, of course, in a theme that doesn't exist on the reality planet. But it is just one of the tragedies of the case that amazing billions, hundreds of billions are being spent on these wars from the Hungarian budget. The problem is that in the meantime, they take the focus of another war away from the war that you are conducting against a significant part of the workers, the Hungarian citizens. And you've been keeping employees in poverty, insecurity, and suppressing them in a regular war for the last nine years. I can already hear the man appointed by the government replying to how terrible it was here under the previous governments, indeed amazing things have happened, for example, the wages of EU workers have been raised to double, and there has been a 13th month pension, which, of course, has been taken away by the global economic crisis, but you, my fellow Members of the Government, have not given back in the last nine years, even though these nine years are said to be the Canaan itself, and we are living much better than ever in this country, but somehow it has not happened. In addition, in recent years the minimum wages and average wages of the neighbouring countries have reached the average Hungarian wages and minimum wages, while the problem is that our prices are not close to the prices of Serbia or Ukraine, but the prices of Germany and Austria, but that the average wage in Austria and Germany is not EUR 600, but EUR 2 thousand. And even in addition to these prices, there is, of course, a great risk of borrowing and maintaining a flat, but there they do not take 50-60-70 percent of wages away from housing costs. Moreover, there are not underpaid, overworked, disenfranchised, frustrated people operating health care, education, or building roads, but respected and proud members of society. And why I'm telling you this now? Well, because you continue with the traditions of the last few years, it seems that you are trying to fool the Hungarian people again, you are talking about a wage increase that will result in a huge wage increase in 2019; of course, up to 10 percent on paper, but in the meantime you have taken away the cafeteria, the extra wage benefits, so practically what you give with one hand is taken away with your hands. Dear fellow Members, Aren't you ashamed? Over the last nine years, an incredible amount of money has come from the European Union. In the last nine years, have there been an incredible economic recovery all over the planet, and you are trying to trick the Hungarian population with a communication trick? Do you really think that on February 5th, when the Hungarians receive their salary, they will not be able to calculate that they did not actually receive anything from you? Do you despise Hungarian people that much? Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I can see in their eyes and their faces that they're laughing at me right now, and they think what an opposition representative is doing here, you should be happy to hear it. However, you should know that beyond your voters, whom you are, of course, fooling, there is another Hungary, and this other Hungary is boiling, tightening and getting angry inside. It would be enough for you to get on the buses in Budapest or take a train to the countryside, and then you will find out. In 2010, the Orbán government took over governance with 34 central taxes. That number's 41 today, but it's still not enough. The cafeteria that you guys wiped out with a button is about you not sharing people's problems, and you don't understand them. Their press shows that you are loyal only and exclusively to your leader, Viktor Orbán, and have joined a defense and defiance alliance with him, not with those who live in wages and work. My question is truly poetic: is that really what government means to you, is that what the Hungarian people mean to you? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-05-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Sándor Bodó responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! The question of the Member and the content of the speech is very controversial, but it is suitable for me to tell you what is the real situation with regard to the facts. In this House, I think we all know that raising wages in a market economy depends on the opportunities of the economy, and the result is essentially the bargaining of employers and workers. The government is obviously able to actively contribute to this in terms of setting the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as well as in terms of reducing taxes, and it is doing so now and has done so in previous years. [[11.20]] But in particular, to deny the Member's question that wage cuts instead of wage increases: allow me to inform you, as a specific figure, that, in line with the government's objectives, the minimum wage has increased from January 2018 to HUF 138 thousand, which is about 88 percent higher than HUF 73,500 in 2010. This is definitely an increase and not a decrease according to the rules of mathematics. The guaranteed minimum wage increased from HUF 89 500 to HUF 180 500 during the same period, i.e. by 102 percent. Again, I can say that this is not a decrease, but a clear increase. Along with minimum wages, higher-class wages have also increased steadily, resulting in an average increase of 36.3 per cent at national level compared to 2010. With your permission, I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that, in addition to or as a result of the tax incentives introduced, this clearly shows an even more favourable picture of the wallet. At national economic level, real earnings increased by 9 percent compared to the same period of the previous year in January-August 2018. It is clear from this that since the beginning of 2013, therefore, for 68 months now, the growth of real earnings has been unbroken, so it is certainly not a reduction, but an increase. The increase in wages, in the competitive sector, has also a direct and spill-over effect of an increase in the minimum wage of 8 per cent from 2018 and 12 per cent of the guaranteed minimum wage, and this is evident in the competitive sector, but also in the public sector. This was done by increasing the benefits for workers in a multi-annual comparison, and it is important to note that in August 2018 the number of employees in businesses with at least five members increased by 2.4 percent, i.e. 97 thousand, compared to August of the previous year. The figures therefore show convincingly that Hungarian wages have already increased more in purchasing power parities than in developed EU countries. It is important to stress that the six-year wage agreement and the tax reduction programme concluded with the social partners are also strengthening this trend, and it is clear that they have also led to results in line with the economic potential. The government can, under its responsibility, take direct wage measures in the public sector, and has done so. As a result of wage increases, the average real demand for public sector workers has been steadily increasing since 2013. In the public sector, the government did not develop in general but in one area, primarily linked to career programmes. Here it is important to emphasise in detail certain areas of the public sector, but in its main trends it is important to present the teacher's career model, the career model for law enforcement workers, the measures introduced for higher education workers, researchers, in the field of justice, in the field of state officials' careers, in the National Tax and Customs Office, in the cultural sector. These all contain a clear increase and an increase. The Member's request and question cannot therefore be interpreted in this situation; wages are increasing in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What about the wells? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of many hundreds of thousands of Hungarians living primarily in the countryside, I am speaking again about a case here in the House, as I have already done so a few weeks ago. Hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today may be affected by the fact that there is a well in their home, in their house, that does not have a proper water license, and in most cases it is not primarily their fault. This situation may persist for decades, but in recent years you have not done much to resolve it. In the past, a law was adopted which made it compulsory to authorise them until 31 December 2018. This is still in force. Although this was planned to be reversed, on 20 July the Parliament adopted a law which would have pushed this moratorium to a later date, but several points of this legislation were against the law. I also said this at the time in the general debate, and the President of the Republic sent this law to the Constitutional Court for standard control, where it was indeed found to be against the basic law. The situation is quite clear: there are hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people waiting for a solution from you, Hungarian people who should be able to permit their water extraction work and their home well by 31 December, with a cost of more than tens of thousands of forints or more. They didn't do anything in this case, and I told them several times that hundreds of thousands of problems would be solved, but they didn't. They did not coordinate the two interests, in Hungarian, that they should have healthy drinking water for everyone, the interests of water base protection, and the social aspects that do exist in rural areas, because the state cannot provide its citizens with the right fixed drinking water in many places. I tabled an amendment to the Parliament in July on coordination. I believe, to this day, that this would have been a solution for hundreds of thousands of people living in suburbs or in rural areas, because they would have been allowed to extract water, to extract economically profitable water, which would have been dangerous for the protection of water bases, but would not have allowed it. You have claimed that you will solve the problem and that your proposal is correct, but this proposal has not survived the test of the Fundamental Law which you have imposed on yourself. A few weeks ago, I concluded a speech before the agenda with two demands on this matter. One was to extend the moratorium. I am hearing now, and we are hearing many who are doing or are taking action in this matter to extend it, although we do not yet see what legislation and in what way, and the time is ticking, since there are no more two months until 31 December. I look forward to that information from the Secretary of State, and a lot of people are waiting to know exactly when the Parliament decides on this, what will happen with this case, when the moratorium will be extended. But that's not the story. We know your legislation very well, you can now extend the moratorium for another two years, you can buy time in this, but inaction can also be unchanged in your policy. What should be done is that legislation is indeed adopted that settles this issue and is a solution for hundreds of thousands of difficult people, as 5 percent of households in Hungary are not connected to the supply of drinking water in the public sector. We were waiting for such a proposal to be submitted, but we still do not see it on the National Assembly website. Therefore, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that we are presenting a comprehensive proposal for a decision, which addresses this issue in a complex way. If your proposal has not yet been submitted, I would like to ask you to support this proposal, which would also, in fact, settle the fact that it is very unfair to set water prices. Three to four times the water price in small towns is often paid in the capital or in larger cities. It is therefore necessary to ensure that it is immediately accessible to all, affordably, the right quality of drinking water. The possibility provided for in the EU Water Framework Directive should be addressed to allow for water removals to be exempted from the requirement of prior authorisation for extraction and storage, where they do not pose a threat to the state of the waters. This concept should include household water demand, self-sufficiency water use and watering of small garden fruit trees. Mr. Secretary, when will the situation finally be settled for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-05-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go. [[11.30]]
u2018-11-05-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There's been a seven-party meeting at the Home Office in the last few days. If you had really dealt with this issue, you would know that this seven-party consultation included changes to the deadline for reporting drinking water wells, and those who were present at the seven-party consultation supported this amendment. Drinking water is the foundation of human existence, one of the most important elements necessary for human life. It is no coincidence that the government considered it very important for all households in Hungary to be connected to drinking water networks as far as possible. You said that 5 percent of households weren't tied up. In fact, there is no fixed drinking water network in 5 percent of the country's territory, but this means that 98 percent of the country's population is directly reaching the fixed drinking water networks. This, of course, indicates the problem in itself that there is a huge difference between the number of unauthorized and undeclared wells and the number of non-installed properties in fixed drinking water systems. The vast majority of the unnotified water wells in Hungary today do not primarily serve the drinking water supply, but provide the water used in the gardens, as most of these wells are, by the way, the traditional well dug or ringed, most of which would not be suitable to be used as drinking water in the first place. But the fact is that in Hungary wells have been formed since the 1800s, which were used partly for drinking water and partly for agricultural production. There are also drilled wells, which were made without any authorisation at the end of the 1800s. There is obviously an extremely important demand, I think, a completely normal social need to protect Hungary's drinking water base, and in order to protect the drinking water base, there should be a specific register within a reasonable period of time that shows where the drinking water base can be reached, where water is produced, how much water is produced, and whether there is a risk that these abstract works, unfortunately, are used as waste water storage facilities or waste disposals. Therefore, it is very important to check the exact position, capacity and physical state of the wells in some way. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this situation has not occurred in the last year or decade, which has been a process for decades. Many wells were built at the time, many wells were built when this was otherwise an obligation to report, but this was not implemented by citizens. Obviously, there is now a major set of problems that we are going to solve, I think, and we can solve. The waiver of public authority fees has allowed the procedure for registration to be exactly as low as possible, but indeed, the engineering fee for the technical review of the facility is extremely high. Here the decision must be made, and I think that this is not primarily a party political or political issue, whether the documentation of the actual design of the technical installation, the exploration of the well in Hungarian and the documenting of the state of the well should be a compulsory part of the register or not. Because if not, it is obvious that the register of wells can be made virtually free of charge or from very small amounts, but the drawback of this is that the owner's declaration is to accept whether or not that well endangers the drinking water base. If we insist on complete technical exploration, there is a clear price to pay. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech: - How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On October 23, 1956, the Hungarian people's desire for freedom came to light, they rose against the communist dictatorship, the revolution broke out. The revolution that, thanks to its glorious days, was a success, since it had overthrown the system of Rákosi, which had been Regent. But the Communists could not allow Hungary to become an independent country, which is why internal traitors conspired with the then superpower, the Soviet Union, and on November 4, 1956 the Soviet Union attacked Hungary and launched a full attack on our country. By that time, this country was fighting a freedom fight, and the heroes to whom all respect was due were fighting freedom fights. At that time, our war of freedom was drowned in blood, the time of retaliation and vengeance came, and on November 11, 1956, the reconstruction and restoration of the communist dictatorship by the Kádár government and János Kádár. More than 30 years of dictatorship followed, and we thought that in 1989-90, the desire for freedom for the heroes of 56 could finally be fulfilled, and a change of regime would take place in our country. But then we had to realize that it wasn't a change of regime, it was a change of method. In the same way, the Communists have saved their power, the Communists have ruled this country. Various organizations have been set up, including their own children, relatives, friends, and principle friends. That's how the multi-party system was formed. All we need to do is look at the current Fidesz, see how many ex-communists there are. A blessing democracy has emerged in our country, and the free robbery has begun. If we want to draw historical parallels between the events of the present day and the events of the past, it is clear that on 23 October 2006, when Ferenc Gyurcsány had the Hungarian people shot into the crowd after 50 years and blood spilled on the streets of Budapest, it was the 4th of November 1956 when the Soviets invaded our country. And 2010, when the Orbán government came to power, it was the 11th of November 1956 when the restoration of the communist dictatorship began; the restoration of the communist dictatorship of the Kádár system is being carried out by Fidesz at the moment. All we need to do is look at the similarities between the two systems. The country was divided into two parts in the Kádár system, they were loyal to the party, and there were anti-systemists, just as they are now: there are loyal to the party and there are anti-systemists who you are trying to eliminate by all means. Those loyal to the party are moving forward now, as in the Kádár system, they get the greasy jobs; those who are against NER, those who are trying to destroy, destroy, kick out of their jobs, crush, disable. In the Kádár system, the council presidents held the countryside and the rural people in hand; today, in the NER system, the small kings and governors of Fidesz hold rural people in their hands the same way. They terrorize rural people, and they're the masters of life and death, just as the council presidents were. Or, to think of the difference between, say, the retaliation after 4 November 1956 from the sentences that Viktor Orbán said just a few months ago, when he said that we would take moral, legal and political satisfaction after the elections, the same threats, the same rhetoric. We're going to the entire dictatorship, and the goal is once again the one-party system. The media is as fully under party control as it was in the Kádár system, false news is coming out, government propaganda is going on everywhere, and party propaganda can be heard from everywhere. Or how different it is, let's say, with the rhythmic applause under the, Long live Rakosi! Are there any incarcerations and murders you may now ask, as you were in the Kádár system? Well, it's not typical of imprisonment yet, but there's a lot of political motivation in one or two proceedings. And there are murders, but now they're not with a rifle, they're doing these murders, not with bullets, but with the media, they're called character killings. You who dare to speak out against NER, anyone who tries to criticize any of your bright-eyed leader's things, try to kill him with character killings. Now, I think you will list the lies, for example, that you have done to me in the past. [[11.40]] So the Jobbik for Hungary Movement has no alternative but to resist, we must defeat NER's system, as we are obliged to do so by the heroes of 56. We're gonna beat you. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Szabolcs Takács, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Stop, Mr. Secretary, is your card plugged in? Let's have a microphone for the Secretary of State. Right away, one minute.
u2018-11-05-15	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I see you're leaving. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Recorder, that's why he's going up.]] Look, the right of expression... I'll tell you how we remember the heroes of 56, if you'll allow me. When we remember his heroes, we jointly bow our heads to those Hungarians who made history with courage and self-sacrifice; they did not tempest, they made history. The Fundamental Law also highlights the importance of the alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. However, we can only speak of an alliance if the representatives of this generation give the next generation the message that we are proud of the heroes who are fighting for the survival, freedom and independence of our country. We have the right to have a clear view of our past, so we will continue to insist on Hungary's freedom, self-determination and strengthening Hungarian ties. It's government policy. The period closing the communist dictatorship, one of the first and most important decisions of the regime change, was to raise 1956 in a worthy and appropriate place, as this is how we can transform the national memory broken into pieces by Soviet tanks into a whole again. The crowds opposed by Soviet occupation and communist power were answered by the Kadár system with volleys, the setting up of static courts and judgments delivered to political order. 1956 spoke to the conscience of Europe and the world, and nothing else moved the conscience of the free world, honourable Member, like the Hungarian revolution. 23 October 1956 was born of hope, and it was killed on 4 November. The revolutionaries of 56 were not prepared to become heroes, so their actions are exemplary, because, relying on their conscience, they fought for Hungary, for the right to self-determination. This is the direction we follow, whether it is the economy, the response to demographic challenges or the support of families raising children or the international representation of Hungarian interests. I understand that this is frustrating you, that the Hungarian government has been fighting for this since 2010, that we have had serious results, and I think that the Hungarian government will never be a partner in hurting and abusing its 56 heroes in such unworthy political debates. So please accept this answer, honourable Member. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The leader of today's party state would like to invite the Russian troops in? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Yesterday was November 4th, 62 years passed since that day in 1956, the leader of the then party state dictatorship called in the Russian troops. There is a legitimate question as to whether the leader of today's Fidesz party state would invite the Russian troops in if it were a revolution. This question is irrelevant for two reasons. On the one hand, it does not seem to want to be a revolution; the Dialogue deeply condemns the policy of violence, we do not want to see bloodshed on Pest Street, we do not want to see bloodshed in Hungary, we want the Fidesz system to be broken down and overthrowed by democratic forces. But the question is also irrelevant because Viktor Orbán, the leader of the Fidesz party state, has already called in the Russian troops. The Russian troops are here. First of all, there are Russian agents and spies, partly in the ties of the Hungarian government, we only need to think of Szilárd Kiss, partly incorporated into opposition parties, say, the case of KGBéla, and who knows how many and how many points of decision-making there are people motivated by Russian interests and not by Hungarian interests. According to some Ukrainian newspapers, Péter Szijjártó and Viktor Orbán himself have direct Russian secret service connections. There are also teams of Russian engineers, they are building Paks II, not from Hungarian entrepreneurs, but from Russian credit, Russian technology, Russian engineers want to build new reactors for Russian profits, for Russian interest, which makes Hungary dangerous, vulnerable, and for decades and generations it is indebting Hungarian families to Russia. And here are the Russian engineers in the energy industry, in the transport industry, everywhere where you can gain influence at strategic points, where technology addiction can be developed. The Russian troops are also here, because as a NATO Member State, the Hungarian government buys Russian military technology, buys outdated Russian helicopters, and has Russian engineers and Russian soldiers renovate, train and maintain this Russian military technology in Hungary. There are also teams of Russian oligarchs and businessmen who wash dirty money close to Putin in Hungary and use it to expand Russian economic influence. And here are the Russian propaganda teams in Hungary, the Russian troll troops and the allied Fidesz-propagandists and Fidesz-trolls, as we see the lies of Putin-media, its false news being taken over by the Hungarian media called the public service, and the media empire of Fidesz, created and maintained by the public funds we stole from us. In 1989, Viktor Orbán, representing the will of the Hungarian people, called on the leaders of the time to withdraw the Russian troops. After 2010, Viktor Orbán announced the Eastern opening policy and called in the Russian troops. Today, it is the Dialogue that calls on Viktor Orbán and all the decision-makers of Fidesz to withdraw the Russian troops from Hungary, because that is what the Hungarian people want today. To this end, the Dialogue presents a proposal for a resolution, which, perhaps in a familiar structure and familiar wording, shows that it is not Brussels and not the Sargentini report that we should fear Hungary's independence, sovereignty, but Vladimir Putin and his Russia. I very much hope that if you are serious about what you are saying about this, my fellow Members will also vote in favour of the parliamentary resolution entitled "Protection of Hungary's sovereignty and refusal of Russian influence against Hungary." Let me just quote the very end:. We believe that Hungary has the right to free political thinking, we expect the leader of Russia not to force its own political convictions on Hungary. We adopt a decision to protect the security of Hungarian people and the sovereignty of Hungary. We declare that it is the duty of the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government to enforce the Hungarian people's will in 1956 and 1989, only the Hungarians can decide the fate of the country. We call on the Government of Hungary not to give in to blackmail, to reject attempts to influence Hungary and to act against Russian attempts to influence it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I hope that you will support this, we hope that you will support the withdrawal of Russian troops and that the Russian troops will take Paks II with them. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-05-18	Thank you very much. I ask you, on behalf of the government... Secretary Menczer will respond. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I feel that it is most important to record that on the 56th anniversary of us, as Deputy Secretary Szabolcs Takács said, so we remember, we remember the heroes, we remember the martyrs, and you talk nonsense. Now, let's go chronologically. Honourable Congressman, It's hard for the week to start, I'll tell you honestly, I was forced to listen to you, and on the way here and in the car, your party partner's speech soaring at similar intellectual heights, so the man's morning shivering is already here. Besides, I didn't know there were so many of them. Well, living people couldn't list three or even two dialogue politicians, and now it turns out there's so many of them. In fact, if we're talking about your party, if you can talk about a party at all, then the name is not clear. There's been PMs here, then P. [[11.50]] And in fact, as soon as the letters run out, you could say the party runs out. But it would be an exaggeration for you, because it is not clear who the party is. I have looked at the results of the elections, honourable Member, it is very important that we bring this here. I looked for you in the chart, but I couldn't find it. Invisible and impossible party, in fact, belongs to you. Then, after a long search, they turned up on the side of the MSZP. This is a good pairing, because the MSZP is also going towards invisibility, but they will probably not be able to perform the bravura that two invisible parties will publish one visible, but it can be tried. This is because, honourable Member, you are an invisible party, and Fidesz-KDNP gives the country a government and leads the country, because the voters have so decided, the voters in the vote in April, which must have missed your attention, so they have decided, this political alliance has been authorised and entrusted with the country's direction. Before you question this in any way, I would like to say quietly that this is the third time in a row, by a large majority, and not for the first time. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: My friend, you got a question here, you're missing the genre! You have to answer here. Interviews from Jobbik and Dialogue.]] I know it's embarrassing, but it's still the way it is. And I can also hear behind my back that from Jobbik to Dialogue, this vocal and this coalition has come together, but the electorate's decision is still clear, and it's something everyone should respect. I know that you are, however, putting on the same record that you put on before the elections, that there is dictatorship, that there is all kinds of influence, and that everyone is practically terrified to go out on the street, but just because you say it regularly here doesn't mean it's true doesn't mean it's just ridiculous and it's practically a complete lack of political creativity. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we are, of course, members of the EU and NATO, but we are still pursuing a pragmatic, mutual-respected foreign policy with Russia or any other country, just as any other country is doing, precisely because it is in the national interest. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things. Paks II, the gas, is used to mention various things, but it is not bad to consider the reality of gas exports and imports, for example, that gas can be transported where there is pipe, honourable Member, this is important in connection with gas transport. As far as Paks is concerned, Paks is the most important condition for reducing the rent. I know this isn't important to you, they represent foreign interests, which we already know, but we're still sticking with Paks. As regards Russian influence and influence, you are obviously in the same position in the case of Chancellor Merkel and President Macron, and in the case of Germany and France, because the two leaders often meet and talk to the Russian President, which is enviable. The Nord Stream 2 is built by the largest Western European companies, and I would like to draw your attention to this as well, and the star guest of the business forum in St. Petersburg was the French president, and at the international energy week in Russia, alongside President Putin, CEOs of companies such as Enel, Total or Shell. There is a strong hypocrisy in Western Europe, and you fit into this line from here, the Hungarian Parliament. On the surface, they criticize Russia, and below the surface, they do business and they have such a close economic relationship that we are practically not in the tree line. And the fact that you, personally and your party, if this can be called a party, refer to the sovereignty of the country is particularly ridiculous and amusing, knowing that you could never be expected, when there were important issues about the sovereignty of the country, you have never helped to protect this country and the Hungarian people, you have always dealt with foreign interests. On the other hand, we do something else, we represent the interests of the Hungarians, and this will remain so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-20	Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr András Aradszki, representative of the KDNP asked for a speech with the title "The Chasing of Christians After a Short Break": 4 November 1956. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I want you to be sober and watch your back. Your enemy, Satan, wanders around like a roaring lion, looking for whom to swallow. Stand firm against him in the faith, for you know that your brothers will suffer such suffering in the world. This was the message of the first pope, the apostle Saint Peter, to Christians living in the provinces of the Middle East during Nero's persecution when faithful Christ followers were put before lions. However, it also sends a message to us today, because in the days we remembered the events of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, including yesterday's Kádár treason. With this act, János Kádár became the emblematic figure for the consolidation of an ungodly political system, who was a hysterical and sickly anti-church and Christian hater on Marxi and Lenini grounds, so on November 4, Népszabadság could have appeared with the title that the persecution of Christians would continue after a short break. The hatred of Nero, which had already shown its protein in Hungary in the, 18 and 19 of 1945, gradually swallowed its victims by using Rákosi after 1945. But the Cardinal, the prince of Mindszenty, had a broken tooth. The version of liberalism that took over Western Europe from '68, our country from the derailment of the system change, continued the persecution of Christianity with the shady but very effective design of new global ethics. Marguerite Peeters, professor at the University of Lateran, of the Pope, writes about the spread of new global ethics:. All suba, through consensus training, lobbying, awareness raising and sensitizing campaigns, traditional and new methods, involving so-called contemporary helpers, by clarifying values... and other sophisticated techniques of changing society, which are manipulative because they want to implement a secret program to force the will of the few to the majority. It is not by chance that the persecution of Christians is not the object of sensitizing awareness campaigns. You know, they just don't want to realize that today there is a greater and stronger Christian persecution in the world, especially in Africa and Asia, than in Emperor Nero's day. This is the same fact that in Kádár's day, at least three times as many freedom fighters were executed as under Haynau, a bloody hand. Dear House, Only Hungary, with today's persecuted people, will show real solidarity through the Hungary Helps programme, because we cannot be idle when our brothers suffer in the world. Thank you, therefore, to all those who are actively involved in this. The Hungarian Helps program is also suitable to show the difference between speculative and misleading, but also antihuman new global ethics and mature, 2,000-year-old Christianity. Dear House, In the spiritual struggle in which Professor Marguerite Peeters believes that the sound meaning of language must be dissuaded and broken down, we must question traditions, existence, institutions, objective knowledge, reason, truth, legal subordination systems, authority, nature, growth, personal, genetic, national, cultural, religious, etc. Self-identification, which is universal, and which can be traced back to Jewish-Christian values and divine revelation, is done by our country, because it preserves its sovereignty, preserves its cultural identity, its faithful Christian tradition. It is our duty to regain our Christian - based identity in order to free ourselves from ambiguous pursuits. It takes time and determination. Time is ready because according to Mindszenty's words Time is in God's hands, and time is an ally of truth. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-22	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, 62 years ago, János Kádár and the narrow criminal group supplying the country to the Soviets returned from Moscow, returning from the eastern direction to Budapest, Hungary, in order to crush the Hungarian people's freedom struggle. As Mindszenty said about freedom fighters, the Rákosi system was swept away by the entire Hungarian people. And they came back, they wanted to return by force, head of Soviet tanks to power, so that they could regain the power of this narrow criminal group with a slightly changing composition, but with the same ideology, and make Hungary a vulnerable country to the Soviet Empire. On November 4, we remember the heroism of these people, who stood up against the most powerful forces in the world at that time and tried to defend Hungary's independence and freedom. We remember the 50th anniversary, when during the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, we could only remember the 50th anniversary of the Revolutionary Revolution of 56, under undeserving circumstances, of peaceful people. [[12.00]] We also know that the successor of the MSZMP is still a parliamentary party in the Hungarian Parliament. We can also see from the opposition parties, the other opposition parties, that the commemoration of the 62nd anniversary of the revolution in 56 also in many cases consisted of how, once, 62 years ago, they joined forces with the successor party of the party that defeated the revolution, how they would run together in elections and how they wanted to govern together. I believe that cooperation with the successors of the incarceration of the revolution may be the most tasteless these days. The communist system state was on the ideological basis of Marxism, which considered all religions to be enemies, Christian religion and Jewish religion as well. Regarding the Jews, Marx described the earthly religion of the Jews as grating. And what is the earthly god of the Jews? The money. And he spoke of Christians in such a way that as many gaps in the machinery of the Christian state as possible should be made. He planned to abolish all Christian religion, and criticism of religion is a prerequisite for all criticism. To him, the democratic state is literally my word, the atheistic state, but only the god-denial state can be a democratic state. By the way, this may still be the case in the name of liberalism, although they don't even know that they're actually repeating a Marxian thought. Cardinal Mindszenty made his position clear: At the moment a Communist ceased to be a Christian. Communism is not only a political party, but, above all, a worldview. by József Mindszenty. I quoted these insufferable quotes from Marx, which also encouraged violence and anti-religion, because Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, expressed great respect for Karl Marx a few months ago, and he was present and respected when exposing the newly built statue. It is unacceptable for us that a representative of such a murderous idea can get a statue anywhere in a civilised country, and it is even more unacceptable that the President of the European Commission does not distance himself from it, but also agrees with him. Hungary has taken a lot of steps in recent years to help persecuted Christians. Allow me to quote a weekend of news. Among the reports of Vatican News, Archbishop Jean-Clement Jeanbart's statement was published, and I quote: "We should especially thank Poland, which is very helpful. It should also be recognised that Hungary, Mr Orbán, has helped us and has helped us in a significant way in recent years because he has really expressed his interest in Syrian Christians in Aleppo. Not only in Aleppo, Hungary helped not only in Syria, but also in countless other places. We helped rebuild the city of Telsqof, Iraq, with two million euros. Now you can move in with the people who were forced out by the Islamic State's advance. In Erbil, we helped with medicine, rebuilding a school in Alkos. In Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, we were able to provide a million euros of humanitarian aid through the Syrian Orthodox and Syrian Catholic churches. In Nigeria, we were also able to provide EUR 1 million for the reconstruction of the terrorist organization, Boko Haram, after its destruction. In Syria, we gave two million euros to the Greek Catholic Archbishop's school reconstruction programme and humanitarian programme, and in Jordan we helped those driven away from their homes with over one million euros, in Lebanon with the help of the Syrian Maronite Catholic Church. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We were able to launch humanitarian actions, and other humanitarian actions and scholarships could be listed for a long time, helping persecuted Christians in practice in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-24	Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, the representative of Fidesz, Mr László Böröcz, spoke with a title on our current affairs. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Parliament's election will have a decisive impact on Europe's future. It is important to decide what position Europe should take on migration, but Europe has never been more divided than it is today. Today, the East-West division has become an ideological division. According to one of two distinct ideas, the European United States and the other, the community of sovereign Member States are the right goal for the future of the continent. According to the Hungarian Government, European united states cannot produce results because they assume that national identity is given up. To this end, many want to introduce more migrants into Europe. Brussels is not Europe; the institution of the European Parliament has become its own caricature, the body is stepping on the countries without self-control. At the end of the week in Athens, at the renewal congress of the European People's Party's Youth Organization, we found that many people are only standing behind the scenes, but more and more openly in favour of Hungary and Hungary. It shows that two Hungarian vice-presidents, the candidates of Fidelitas and the MIÉRT in Transylvania, were elected to the ten-member presidency during the renewal. In the history of YEPP, there have never been two candidates elected from one country, and the candidates of the Romanian National Liberal Party and the Hungarian RMDSZ youth organization from Romania were included in the presidency thanks to the Hungarian lobby. Things have been happening that have not been done before, since 1979 the internal policy issues of the Member States have determined the composition of the European Parliament, but the issue of migration has now become a pan-European issue. This is also apparent from the fact that the recent national elections have been dominated by the issue of migration. Hungarian voters can also participate in this European debate. The procedure initiated against Hungary following the Sargentini report is of no particular importance. We can be sure that more people are raising vetoes if they wish to limit Hungary's voting rights. We are not alone, the countries of Visegrád cooperation are strong allies of Hungary. The biggest failure of the last European Parliament term is that the citizens of one of the strongest Member States, the United Kingdom, have decided to leave the common Europe. The day after the Brexit vote, the leaders of the European Commission and the European Parliament should have resigned. [[Péter Ungár: You voted!]] Because it's their responsibility that this could happen. Not long ago, the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs welcomed Jean-Claude Juncker's resolution on the centenary celebration of the union between Transylvania and Romania on 1 December, but expressed concern about the rhetoric of the Budapest authorities. Jean-Claude Juncker was supposed to embody Europe's unity, but he was never able to do so, either at the Brexit, at migration or at the Romanian national holiday. Juncker has demonstrated in the last four and a half years that he is unfit to lead the European Commission. Europe will be strong and united if we accept that certain historical dates and events are a source of joy for some and hurt others. It is also important that those who sadly remember an event should not be expected to rejoice, since such expectations are immoral and unfair. We can be sure that the leaders supporting migration will do their best to implement György Soros's plan for the remainder of the EP elections. We've seen this in the last few months. The highest-stakes EP election will be next year. The question is whether they are pro-immigration or immigration forces. there will be a majority in the European Parliament. Today, even in the expired EP, the pro-immigration MEPs are in the majority, and they are doing everything they can to punish and brand those whose opinions differ from theirs, such as Hungary. The fish reeks of its head, as they say, and the head is Brussels and its political elite. György Soros, who wants to put pressure on the Member States in the way of his plan through his network, without democratic legitimacy, who do not want to give up, for example, the right of border surveillance. Both the Hungarian Soros network and the Hungarian opposition have been activated, their domestic political dreams are still cherished abroad, and at home they are distracted by campaign bluffs through the Soros portals. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the real European problem and the Hungarian Prime Minister is being attacked. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Takács responds and reflects. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to congratulate you on our success in the renewal of the youth organisation of the European People's Party. As I see it, there is 20 percent Hungarian representation in the presidency of the youth organisation. This really shows that they are slowly beginning to understand in Europe that the Hungarian government's position makes some sense. [[12.10]] You were talking about current affairs, Congressman. There are indeed ongoing cases in the European Union, but I must say that over the last ten years we have been talking about a series of ongoing crises, and the European Union has either not been able to respond to these crises at all, or it has only been very late and it has not been right. As the Member said, in the last five years we have seen the most unsuccessful, saddest period in the history of European integration. On the one hand, the European Union was unable to respond to mass illegal migration. This, whether you like it or not, is what an increasing number of Europeans think. [[Gergely Harvestó: The smaller part thinks that...]] There are no solutions, there are political cuts, there are witch hunts in the Member States. In addition, the other very serious mistake is that the United Kingdom, one of the strongest, most successful Member States of the European Union, will finally leave the European Union in March next year. I also understand that MEPs in opposition benches are also trying to blame this on the Hungarian government's mistake, but the situation is not this, but the situation is that the European Commission has mispoliticised and completely ignored the identity, constitutional identity, traditions and national interests of a country with such a serious historical tradition. That is the case, honourable fellow Members and ladies and gentlemen. The problems started in 2014, when the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, openly defined the European Commission as a political organisation. I think that many of the conflicts between the Hungarian government and Brussels can arise from this, because there is a fundamental conflict of attitude here. According to the Hungarian Government's consistent position, the Commission should watch over European law, be guardian of the treaties, not out of political motivation, expanding its powers stealthily, and also pursue a political agenda in cases where it is not fit to do so. Since November 2014, the Commission has been consciously acting as a political body, using both infringement procedures and the institutions it manages as weapons on an ideological basis, and this is very wrong, we think. As in the pre-Lisbon period, the most serious issues are, we believe, only the highest level of political legitimacy, i.e. with the agreement of the Heads of State or Government, and therefore the institutional balance laid down in the Treaties must be maintained. The multifaceted and sensitive compromise system contained in the founding treaties of the European Union clearly sets out the competences and responsibilities of the Union and its institutions. This is what the European Commission is regularly crossing, and they are also talking about the rule of law in the European Union. First of all, we believe that the primacy of the Member States and the leading role of democratically elected Heads of State or Government, the European Council, in defining the political priorities of the Union, should be preserved, which no institution of the Union can override or avoid, as was otherwise the case, in the most conspicuous way on 22 September 2015, when the Home Affairs Council overrided the decision of the European Council on compulsory quotas. That's where the troubles started, honourable Members. [[Gergely Arató: You have no idea of the EU...- Dr. Bence Rétvári: But he does! He knows everything! Harvester knows everything! Noise.]] The fact is that, in the interests of the future and the functioning of the European Union, we see that Member States with differences of opinion are immediately being punished politically, and we should leave this behind to the spirit of the founding fathers and to respect each other's positions. [[Gergely Harvester: You don't believe it either!]] We should go beyond the division between the Eastern and Western, the old and the new Member States, so that we can achieve further success in integration. Unfortunately, however, we see a growing trend in increasing the division of the Union. As the 2019 elections to the European Parliament are approaching, the demoted politicians in Brussels and the political forces that have lost their support pose open political threats to Member States protecting their national interests and constitutional identity, whether they are Hungary, Italy or Poland. Of course, Poland has now been targeted by the Commission [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , and the European Parliament did not target Hungary for the first time, by initiating the so-called Article 7 procedure. I would conclude with what Prime Minister said recently that if the leaders of the Union are unable to accept the other position today, [[The president's ringing again.]] at least try to tolerate it and wait in May 2019 for European citizens to decide on their future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-05-28	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Ten Members came to the speech following today's agenda: Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát Member, Mr Jobbik; Member Tamás Pintér, Mr Jobbik; Member Mihály Witzmann, Mr Fidesz; Member László Varga, Mr MSZP; Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member LMP; Mr Péter Ungár, LMP; Member László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr LMP; Zsolt Gréczy, Member, DK; MEP László Hajdu, MEP DK. Now, at 12:15 p.m., we're gonna start discussing questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for the management of national assets: "Do Hungarians and Szeklers belong together, according to the Government? It's an address. Congressman Savay has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Three weeks ago, I submitted a proposal for the National Assembly to declare the 16th of October, the beginning of the Székely National Assembly in Clayfalvi as the day of Hungarian-Székely union. In 1848 about 60 thousand Szeklers met on this day in order to defend the modern civil Hungary created by the laws of April and to provide military assistance to the Hungarian freedom fight in a difficult situation. For a strange coincidence, on 16 October the National Assembly discussed another proposal concerning Szeklers, which would have meant the declaration of Szeklerity as an independent nationality in Hungary, which, of course, could make the hearts of many national-minded people beat, but the Parliament, rightly, rejected it, since its acceptance could only have given Romania ammunition to further share Transylvanian Hungarians. That is why we consider it important to emphasise our belongings. According to Jobbik, the Szeklers are part of the Hungarian nation. In my speech before the agenda on 16 October on the day proposed for the Memorial Day, I asked for the accession of a representative of the factions to our proposal. It is a great pleasure for me that Lóránt László Keresztes, the leader of the LMP group, did so immediately, just as MEP Zsolt Molnár later joined in on behalf of MSZP and Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio on behalf of the Dialogue. I thank them and their faction from this place. At that time, Mr Potápi, State Secretary, said in his reply that he would be familiar with the proposal and could accept the idea. I would like to trust that, like the parliamentary decision condemning the Ukrainian educational law or the united stand in favour of Minority SafePack, on the day of Hungarian-Székely accession, we can establish a real national consensus, as the Szeklers did 170 years ago when they joined the cause of Hungarian freedom. So my question to the Secretary of State would be whether the government supports our proposal for the day of Hungarian-Székely accession [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and whether we can count on the accession of one representative of the governing parties. I look forward to your positive response. Thank you very much. [[Applause for Jobbik and sporadic applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2018-11-05-30	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Árpád Potápi State Secretary responds from the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. I thanked the Member for his question, because it concerns a matter which not only has symbolic significance, but also has a real message for the Székely-Hungarian community and for all Hungarians, of course. Many and many people have said that the Szeklery has a special place throughout Hungary, yet everyone emphasized that the Szeklers are an integral part of the Hungarian nation. We support this initiative, indeed; let it really be a day on which we can express Hungarian-Székely solidarity widely when this day can be another example of Hungarian community engagement. The Székely National Assembly of Clay Walls was an important milestone in the Székely-Hungarian common past. We would also like the initiative and the existence of this memorial day to make the Szeklers more familiar with their own history, of course the Hungarians as a whole with the significance of this event, and therefore we support the establishment of the Szekler National Assembly here in Clayfalva by HUF 20 million until 2019 to create this museum. [[12.20]] However, we would like to propose an amendment to this proposal. The purpose of the amendment proposal is to clarify that Szeklers are an integral part of the Hungarian nation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2018-11-05-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, 'Do you really not have one and a half billion forints to support the poorest where hundreds of billions of dollars are spent on stadiums? Why not provide a larger envelope for the social firewood programme? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In addition to family support, the anti-poor social policy of the government is also felt by housing support. We saw how the house savings fund system was plowed, we saw that the CSOK had been increased, and let's face it, the only ones who can use it are wealthy families, while we find that the poorest have almost nothing or barely anything. Forty-one percent of Hungarian families use solid fuel. If we look at poorer households, this figure is higher, up to 50 percent for households. For them, especially those who are the poorest, the reduction of the overhead costs is not very helpful either, as the price of wood has increased by 21 percent since 2010. This week, Minister of State announced that 2320 local governments had applied for a social firewood programme, the total amount requested was HUF 5.5 billion, but the already increased budget is only HUF 4 billion, so it is missing HUF 1.5 billion, which is completely incomprehensible to me as to why it is impossible to make up for this budget. Recently, the money for social firewood has arrived at the local authorities, and there are several problems there, of course the biggest problem is that the settlements cannot supplement this support, they calculated that there will be 19 thousand forints of support for a cubic meter of firewood, while we can see in the market that they can charge up to 25,000 forints for a cubic meter of firewood. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State why there is no greater allocation for the social firewood programme. Seriously, isn't there a billion and a half forints left in the budget where we spend hundreds of billions on stadiums? The question arises as to why the housing support system is not being restored, which, by the way, worked much better in the past. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-34	Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás reflects. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, To reduce housing costs and reduce housing costs, this government has done a great deal. I would remind you that by including fixed line services and fixed-line energy prices in the reduction of costs, we have created the possibility for prices to remain acceptable and affordable. By transforming the social support system, the government has taken the form of social assistance that is taxatically granted to families and has installed it at the district offices, while the budget provides the municipalities with more than HUF 30 billion to cover the provision of social assistance, so the municipalities can create housing subsidies themselves through their own regulations. So when you lack housing subsidies, you question the right, opportunity and ability of the municipalities to support those in need through the social support system, through their own social support system. The so-called firewood programme, in which the government has provided financial support to the most deprived municipalities since 2011, has been designed to provide financial support to these municipalities since 2011, with the original and primary aim of providing more support to small settlements where there are many people scattered in farmland areas and their accessibility is difficult, and there is a sufficient amount of resources available for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-36	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, would you like to ask the Attorney General a question: "Political cleansing in the D.A.'s office?" It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2018-11-05-37	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, During a labour trial, it was made public that a 13-year-old prosecutor on the field had been dismissed due to his three Facebook posts on public affairs, which could, with sufficient vigilance, have been classified as opposition-like by the heads of the prosecution. There are also a number of procedural oddities in the case, but it is even more strange that, while the prosecutor was being punished for losing his office, this procedure was initiated by one of its key actors, Mr Tibor Ibolya, Chief Prosecutor of Budapest, who, on several occasions, criticized the courts quite strongly when the prosecution and, not least, when they made decisions contrary to Fidesz's position in certain cases. Looks like he's free. In the specific case, the court will take its decision, but the procedure also raises general questions about the functioning of the prosecutor's office. Can they remove someone from the D.A.'s office because of their political opinion? Is it possible to be a prosecutor in Hungary, who does not share the government's position on all matters? Are there any further political cleansing planned at the DA's office, or are all prosecutors now reliably carrying out the will of power? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-05-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question is answered by Mr István Lajtár, Deputy Prosecutor General. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the disciplinary case referred to by the Member, the practitioner of the disciplinary power imposed disciplinary penalties on the prosecutor concerned because his conduct violated the authority of the prosecutor's profession. Under the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, prosecutors are obliged to keep the Fundamental Law and the law in their work and conduct. Article 29 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary states that prosecutors cannot be party members or engage in political activities. This prohibition is general and independent of the form, content or orientation of the activity. It is an ethical requirement for all prosecutors to conduct themselves in their private lives, including the exercise of their right to express their opinions, and to refrain from any manifestation that would undermine or give rise to a lack of trust in the administration of justice, the authority of a prosecutor's profession. Ignoring these expectations is not compatible with the practice of the prosecutor's profession. The Disciplinary Order has been brought before a court by the prosecutor, the labour suit, as the Member referred to, is pending at the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court. I would like to inform the Member of his question that in Hungary he may be a prosecutor who meets all the legal conditions for establishing a public prosecutor's service relationship and who has no legal grounds for refusal. In addition, professional competence is the sole condition of becoming a prosecutor. I also consider it necessary to point out that the disciplinary situation of the nearly 4500 public prosecutors' organisations has been stable, that in the last five years a total of five prosecutors have been sentenced to disciplinary action, and for the same reason no disciplinary action has been initiated against the prosecutor. Finally, I would like to stress that the prosecutor's organisation is not a political smackdown, but a political smackdown. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-40	Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Does the government support the education and educators of children in SNI? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-41	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to draw your attention to two legislative amendments that I've tabled and ask if the government supports you. One is the Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits of the Year, and the National Public Education Act. The point of the first would be that, at present, teachers of medicine in the living room of disabled people receive less money for the same work as they do in a special school, even though they do the same work. The reason for this is that in one place they receive money on the basis of the educational allowance fund and in the other place on the basis of the social basis. This should be amended, because, as a result, there are not enough medical teachers in many daytime homes, which is a deficit profession anyway, and this would not be a significant budgetary burden for Hungary. This would be very important in the development of people who are there in daytime homes. [[12.30]] The other proposal refers to a broader problem, namely that a school can host children with SNI without any conditions in the statutes of public education institutions. It is often very, very difficult to enroll a child with an SNI because they are enrolled and then immediately expelled because, although it was in the articles of association, they have to comply, for example, neither a separate room nor a medical educator nor anyone else is available. Therefore, I have made an amendment to the law which says that the conditions laid down in the regulation must be met by an educational institution in order to include in its articles of association the adoption of children with SNI; and it is also necessary to specify a basic number of such requirements at the county level, because currently in Hungary the supply is also very good. , there are counties in Hungary where children with SNI cannot be enrolled in schools because there is no such educational institution designated. So overall, my question would be whether you can support these legislative proposals and whether there are other ways in which you can offer solutions to these two problems that I have mentioned in the year of families. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-42	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, the Secretary of State Rétvári reflects. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Helping children and their families with special needs has been an important aspect for the government in recent years, and a number of measures have been taken. At the same time, in addition to today's series of questions, I cannot go without saying that it was already visible a week or two ago that Jobbik and LMP would coordinate their themes in their approach, and it cannot be a coincidence that a few lines or a few points after you will be followed by a better fellow Member on the same subject. [[Márta Demeter: Answer the question. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] From week to week, we can see that the Jobbik-LMP coalition is improving, including in the parliamentary theme choices. We have sought to launch wage-raising programmes in the social sector as well as in public education in recent years. This meant a surplus of hundreds of billions of forints in recent years. In new developments, we require that buildings with complex accessibility for all disability groups can only be built, and obviously this is also an important aspect for renovations. If your proposals were to be adopted, you'd be excluding several approved institutions from care at the moment. Therefore, we are thinking about other types of development, and we are also trying to help students with special needs from various projects of the pedagogical services. The total value of these amounts is HUF 12 billion. Paying is linked to the type of institution, activity, job, obviously, who works as a teacher in a pedagogical institution, is paid by a teacher's wage table, and who is paid by a social institution, by a social wage table, with a salary supplement, with additional salaries that we have accepted in recent years. Both have been increased in recent years. What are the terms? You yourself said that it is necessary to fulfil conditions in order to write this in your articles of association. This is equipment, room, equipment; control and control rules are already included in the legislation, so we strive to ensure that families are really helped. The Hungarian therapeutic pedagogical care also has better indicators compared to the international level. I'll deal with that in the response of the other half of the faction. Thank you very much. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. A round of applause from government representatives.]]
u2018-11-05-44	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do the ghettos want to build Hungary?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The social crisis is the cause of the situation in Heroes Street in Kőbánya, because they are reaching for drugs because of the lack of prospects. Then, becoming self-dangerous and public-dangerous, they engulf public spaces like real zombies. The basic problem needs to be addressed and not eliminated, a complex drug strategy, including the social crisis, which Fidesz does not have [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] But it doesn't even seek to create it. Instead, by choosing the simplest solution, in contrast to the votes of the residents of Heroes Street, the people living here are surrounded by walls. The municipality of Kőbánya received some HUF 2 billion of government aid, from which the so-called ghetto of Heroes Street could be eliminated by buying the apartment of the people living here, solving all the problems of the legitimate residents. Instead, they would pay someone more than HUF 180 million to build and guard the walls, creating a real ghetto. In the first place, it is questionable why they would block a broken block with a wall, why they would cover up the problem instead of facing it and solving it. They have succeeded in several settlements in recent years through prevention, harm reduction, social and labour market programmes. There are many examples that could be adapted, but you seem to be unwilling to do so. Instead of providing help, they punish those in distress, not eliminate it, but try to eliminate the problem, not reduce it, but increase the prospect. So I'm asking you if you intend to develop an effective drug strategy. Or, in contrast, is the structure of the Ghettos' Hungary their intention? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-05-46	Thank you very much. Who's responding from the government? [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State of Scones. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has a state-of-the-art drug strategy, and its implementation is ongoing and we are moving forward with it in an appropriate way. And I would also like to point out here that, while there is a problem with the ongoing change in the list of psychoactive substances around the world, we have created the possibility in legislation that the Ministry will be able to follow the emergence of new psychoactive substances very quickly and flexibly by means of a ministerial decree. About the Hero street problem. Honourable Congressman, You see, in the second half of the eighties, I was a soldier on the other side of this building in one of the squadrons, in this building there was a serious problem, both public safety and the drug issue at that time. You were obviously working as an economist at the time to eliminate this problem. Well, it didn't work. Indeed, this is not a great glory for Hungary. [[Sándor Burány's intervention.]] That this building and this problem could not be eliminated for thirty-six years, but now the government has created a financial condition for this block to be eliminated. In the local and short term, the municipality is trying to protect the people living in the environment, those who travel there and the inhabitants of the district, and it has indeed been decided in the presence of the residents at a board meeting: in fact, a temporary solution to protect the environment is created to protect the area, but with the support of the government, they can eliminate the whole problem. The source is available for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What steps does the Government intend to take to improve the road link between Szombathely and Kőszeg? It's an address. In particular, I congratulate you on starting with four words in a row, which is a good performance. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2018-11-05-49	Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, Hungary's Government has been committed to developing the motorway network. Motorways built and under preparation, highways testify to all this throughout the country. The development was also important for the Vas county, as the M86 road could be built to the county seat, which freed the settlements from the unbearable transit traffic and makes it easier to travel between Szombathely and Budapest. In my constituency, the next major step was the development of the road link between Szombathely-Kőszeg within the framework of the Modern Cities programme. In this way, the access between Vas county and Vienna could also become more rapid, both in the transport between Austria and Hungary and the location of the implementation and the county of North Vas would also provide important opportunities for this investment, including the city of Kőszeg, which is an outstanding place for Hungary in historical, architectural and cultural terms. The government also started implementing the KRAFT programme to preserve this heritage. Dear Secretary of State, I therefore respectfully ask what steps the government is planning to take to improve the road connection between Szombathely-Kőszeg, in what schedule the preparation takes place. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-50	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary has had a government once again since 2010 that is aware and admits that without a strong, attractive and competitive countryside, it is impossible to build a growing and viable country. Putting the countryside in a position has been a key government goal over the past eight years with significant results, including in the development of transport policy. As a result, by the autumn of 2016, we also connected Vas County to the fast-track network, replacing a decade of debt. It follows from this government logic that the project to prepare for the development of the road link between Szombathely and Kőszeg is included in the government decisions containing Hungary's short- and medium-term road development. [[Péter Ungár: You promised in 2010!]] [[12.40]] The technical content of the 16.3 km long project can be determined after the feasibility study has been completed. The estimated amount of preparation is HUF 1.8 billion, for which the government provides the necessary funding from the sources of the domestic budget. The final technical content of the project requires the environmental preparation of the missing north-east section avoiding Szombathely No. 87-89 and the exploration of the industrial areas of Szombathely, so that the possible track variations of the related projects are examined in a study plan. The design contract was signed in September this year for the preparation of the study plan. The construction permit is expected to be obtained in the first quarter of 2020 and the export plan is to be prepared in the third quarter of 2020. The development of the motorway network referred to by the Member, the modern cities, and the Hungarian villages, are excellent examples of government commitment to support the countryside. After its completion, the modernisation of the road link between Szombathely and Kőszeg will also join a series of long-term, far-reaching developments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-52	Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Or, why don't you make sure the SNI students get the upgrades they deserve? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to historical tradition, near the mountain of Taigetos, there was a place for children of ancient Spartans, where infants who were judged to be inanimate were exposed by the advice of the elders. By these standards, it was an inhumane practice. It is a shame, a shame that Taigetos is a modern Taigetos, which can work in Hungary as well! While we argue a lot about whether there is a shortage of teachers, the government denies this, of course, but it is undoubtedly a fact that the situation in this special area is extremely bad. The shortage of development educators is shocking, and if you do not believe me, opposition, please accept the report of Lajos Aáry-Tamás, Commissioner for Education, for 2017. In his report to the Cultural Committee, he made it clear how few developers are in our country. The Commissioner for Educational Rights has a large part of his report, precisely by discussing the cases of complaints made by families because of the developments that are going according to the law, but which are not in reality. Therefore, parents who, unlike the Nersevik elite, are unable to teach their children in luxury private schools demanding millions of tuition fees, and within the framework of public education they do not receive the occupation, the development that they should have, rightly feel that the Hungarian state has kicked their children off the Taigetos. It is a shame that equal opportunities are becoming less and less equal. Why not make sure that the principles of a true student-centred education are respected, and that students with special educational needs receive the care and development that is essential for them not to have a pedagogical place to live? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's unspoken, honest response. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-11-05-54	Friendship is forming between you, Mr. Secretary. Put your gloves on. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, So I'll pick up where I left off the LMP answer. First of all, in relation to your tone, which is also in writing, we need to ask for parents and teachers, teachers, people working in schools and social workers to be used in such words. I think these people are doing everything in their power to ensure that SNI children and their families feel as much support and care as possible; not only as other families are doing with the free textbook system, children's meals, language exams, the KRESZ course, not only with the 125 billion HUF development package with which we are renovating schools, or with the 100 thousand new digital tools, but also with the additional normative support for disabled students in higher education institutions. As far as care is concerned about the young people in SNI. 6813 educators and educators take part in school care, and 2622 educators and teachers work in pedagogical services when special diagnostic or specific therapy tasks are required. This means that, compared to 5,700 people in 2010, 9435 people are now dealing with helping SNI students, a noticeable increase. There is also a noticeable rise in how many students are integrated: their share in 2010 was 61 percent, and now it is 71 percent. The number of educational and educational institutions providing children and pupils with special educational needs reaches 76 percent of the total number of educational and educational institutions. There is a new professional need, which is why these enlargements were: while there was training at a university ten years ago, now in seven universities, while in 2013 867 students took this course, now 1778. So that's what we're going to do in the future. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to increase the need for an increased professional supply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-56	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why must the Buda Capes suffer because of air traffic? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In August, the flight directions, take-off and landing directions of the Ferihegy airport were changed. In recent months, from District X and from District XVIII. We have already heard complaints from the public from the district, but in recent weeks I have also received requests and complaints from the Buda Cape Verdeans that the noise pressure has increased significantly from early morning to practically late at night. One of the locals in a long letter analyzed for me where he turned to everyone and received virtually no meaningful answer, which is why he asked for it, and I think it is worth raising it to Parliament at the time, and it is worth listening to you, as one of your departments is responsible for this type of decision, how and how you see the situation. Mr. Secretary. The real question is, if you have to touch flight directions in an airport-level area in Ferihegy, why not try to find ways to avoid the capital as much as possible. Why is it that instead of one of the solutions, there will be one that will, if necessary, burden certain parts of the capital even more? When such a decision is taken, will it be discussed with the competent municipality or with the inhabitants of the municipality? When such a decision is made, is there any impact assessment, noise or other type of impact assessment in the background? My last question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether, in view of all this, which they have heard in recent months in relation to complaints from the general public, it is expected that a solution can be expected that these areas will, where appropriate, be relieved. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply.
u2018-11-05-58	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is also difficult to keep in mind how many times the opposition has tried to use the fact that Hungary has a busy international airport, which, like any other airport in the world, inevitably affects the residential areas of nearby settlements. No matter how many times the same question is posed, it remains a fact: due to the location and orientation of the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport, there is no longer such coherent uninhabited zone over which the aircraft can leave or approach the airport without disturbing anyone. [[László Varju intervenes.]] It must be said that what you do not take into account must be confirmed again: air traffic routes are designed in line with strict international and domestic standards, the failure of which could have led, inter alia, to an EU infringement procedure against Hungary. [[12.50]] The amendment which you have challenged is also due to such an international review procedure. The amendments resulting from the review focused, inter alia, on noise reduction. When designing the routes, HungaroControl Zrt. has carried out a number of public involvement and noise tests in consultation with professional organisations, the supervisory authority and the airport operator. The designation of the new trail has overall reduced the noise effect and emissions to the earth's surface. Therefore, the insurmountable side effects of the airport have been measured to reduce the overall population of the capital and agglomeration concerned. In addition, of course, as it has been said in its last question, the air transport professional organisations, as they have done so far, have continued to be open to dialogue with the municipalities of Budapest and the surrounding municipalities and the citizens who live there. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-60	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: From State Care to Homelessness? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The lively debates about homelessness caused by your problematic provision have also drawn attention to other problems with homeless people. Perhaps one of the most heartbreaking and saddest of these is that one in five homeless countrymen, homeless people, come out of public care directly, or in homeless situations a few years after public care. It could be said that half of the homeless in the youth population come from the state care center. There is no doubt that while there is a heartbreaking human story behind every homeless fate, their case is particularly sad and especially great loss not only in personal fates but also in the whole nation. We know that there are measures, there are types of previously launched and even new government measures that are trying to remedy this situation, and it is also true that a large part of the people working in this sector are making very serious efforts to give these young people a better chance. However, the result is sad, so I ask Mr Secretary of State to answer specifically now, not by continuing a political battle, but by seeking a solution to what they are planning to do, so that the children of state care don't start their lives on the street, so that they can also have a chance to make a home for themselves. How should other measures and better measures be taken to address this very serious problem? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-05-62	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2018-11-05-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For years, the government has been seeking to provide increased assistance to those who have come out of various public care and childcare. Just on 1 January this year, another favourable amendment came into force for their benefit, which seems to have escaped the attention of the Member. The point is that not only until the age of 25 years, but until the age of 30 and the end of student status, we are trying to ensure that these young people can integrate into society as much as possible into the use of post-care services. For every young person has the right to receive post-care or post-care care, even when they no longer live in a boarding school. So we pushed them for another five years in case someone else was studying with him. It is also important that these young people are also entitled to home-building support as a cash benefit, in addition to the 35 billion-dollar framework that is the general framework for municipal aid and that the government, their housing and home-building can be helped in its entirety. The total per person is between HUF 1.3 and HUF 1.9 million, depending on whether the person owns a property or does not have a financial situation. We have launched a project of more than HUF 1 billion, the title of which is to improve the conditions for self-starting in child protection specialist care and correctional institutions. This seeks to help the exact situation of life from more than HUF 1 billion, to which the Member has referred. So we try to help you wherever it is possible, whether by HUF 1.3-1.9 million per person or by more than HUF 1 billion in projects, because someone who is not helped by a family to start a life is in many cases at a disadvantage. These disadvantages are being compensated for by this programme and this amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-64	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the Government intend to help strengthen the practices of the GP? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The settlements of Hungary need help, because there are many unfulfilled general medical practices. We need to find effective solutions, because thousands of patients cannot be left unserviced. Perhaps many of my fellow Members do not know the financing or expenditure of GP practices. Buy a rural practice with monthly OEP funding of HUF 1 million 200 thousand! In the case of the application of a nurse, a scribe and a janitor, the wage cost is 850,000 forints. For office and cleaning supplies, machine maintenance, an additional HUF 70,000 for utility fees and vehicle usage is HUF 100,000, and if the doctor's wage cost is HUF 850 thousand, this is more than HUF 1.5 million a month. They are not eligible for VAT refund. So OEP funding doesn't cover GP expenses. But how do you manage the maintenance and other renovation work? There are some general practitioners who are forced to take a second job, even on foreign duty. Over the past few years, the settlement of specialist wages has begun, but unfortunately, the financing of GPs has not yet caught up with this. The other problem is medical attention. The problem is that this care has been outsourced almost everywhere, and it is therefore difficult to involve doctors in on-call care. They contract for 24-hour care, but most of them are unfortunately unwilling to participate in the on-call. The solution may be that a doctor who signs a contract with a territorial supply obligation should be required to provide for an on-call procedure, of course for appropriate remuneration. Finally, it is important to maintain, extend to national level and to finance sustainable new start-ups. Sector-neutral wage compensation is also essential for functioning practice communities to ensure long-term maintenance. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-66	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár again. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You know that, because of the average age of GPs in primary care throughout Europe, encouraging GPs is an important task. A statement by the President of the Federal Medical Chamber in Germany recently came out that a third of German general doctors are retired and are retiring within five years. This is a huge problem in Germany. In recent years, we have tried to change the resources of basic care by more than 70 percent, and to change the funding of GP practices to make it as attractive as possible for a young person. In 2010, the funding of an average general medical practice, if I look at the national average, was HUF 867 570, today it is HUF 1 596 242, i.e. 74 percent higher than this HUF 867 thousand. At that time, it was a lot of HUF 850 thousand, and now it's nearly HUF 1 million, 600 thousand, which is the income of a general practice every month. This gives you a much greater opportunity to spend the expenses you have listed, and even more so, the doctor's own remuneration. In addition, we launched the practice purchase grant with HUF 4 million non-refundable support, the establishment application, in which a doctor receives a HUF 20 million non-refundable grant if he fills a practice that has been vacant for a long time. Thanks to these programs, 573,000 people were provided with general medical care and 175,000 dental care. Prax communities are an important program launched by the government. You have supported this; thank you very much for your positive feedback. So far, four communities of practice have been set up with 24 basic supply practices. Within the development of the basic supply, there is an additional HUF 6.7 billion available for the development of the practice communities, and a total of HUF 49 billion is available from EU and domestic sources for basic supply improvements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-68	Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: "The government withdraws the tax relief of cafeteria in response to trade union protests? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fidesz seems to be taking the policy of austerity very seriously. The government's autumn tax package does not alleviate the cafeteria restrictions adopted this summer. Important and popular benefits such as catering at work, school start-up benefits, local rent, housing allowance, pension and health insurance employer's payment or employer's take-over of student loan repayment are still reduced this year, but next year they will be taxed as wage income. This is clearly a tax increase. [[13.00]] That's why the trade unions have announced the. We don't ask for a demonstration of the tax increase with the title "The Trade Union" for tomorrow. The Dialogue also finds it unacceptable to impose another restriction, to destroy the cafeteria, and to support the trade union demonstration. Today, even in cafeteria benefits will not be received next year by employees, because if this is incorporated into their wages, they will still get worse after tax and contributions have been deducted. According to one of the union's calculations, their members will spend 400,000 forints a year on this. The government previously claimed that this would reduce the tax administration. This argument makes so much sense as to justify the thirster by not giving him water because they want to protect him from spilling water. The employer who doesn't want to deal with cafeteria already doesn't bother him, but you are taking away from two million Hungarian employees the annual discount they have received for 10 and 100,000 forints. If the government speculates that it's gonna make more revenue for the budget, it's the wrong way. These are just theoretical extra income, because it is not certain that the cancelled benefits will be included in wages. So what's the point of abolishing the preferential taxation of cafeteria? Or is it really just the affection for austerity policy that moves the Fidesz government? Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-05-70	Secretary of State Tallai, please.
u2018-11-05-71	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that there is no austerity policy and no measure in relation to the current government activity. This was done by previous governments, left-wing governments close to you. I would like to inform you that Minister for Finance Mihály Varga met with trade union leaders, President of the LIGA trade unions and President of the Labour Councils on 31 October. The main topic at this meeting was the wage agreement and the increase in wages next year. Because cafeteria is very important, but there is one more important thing: how much a worker will pay next year's wages. And the amount of the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, must be agreed; it must be agreed between employers, workers and, of course, the government to approve it and finally decide. The cafeteria system is very important. The Parliament has already decided on the transformation of the cafeteria system. The Parliament has adopted the government principle that decent wages should be paid for decent work in principle, that the system should be abolished when workers are given benefits in kind and vouchers instead of wages. In the future, any transformation of the cafeteria system can only be done in the spirit of this. By the way, the Minister of Finance has told the trade unions, which they have accepted, that whatever they have or have to propose to change the cafeteria system, they should submit it to the Minister, and the government will consider it. The situation is not as bad as you say, however, according to the service company BDO, the fifth largest company in the world, the cafeteria system will remain the same in 2019, as competition on the market will force employers to continue to provide these cafeteria benefits to employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-72	Thank you. Member János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Is it possible to renew further sections of the road in Jászság? Which sections are affected, when can residents use them? It's an address. Congressman Puddle has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the government-approved investment, which totaled about HUF 6.1 billion, the long-awaited replacement roads in Jászság started in the spring of 2018. I am pleased to say that the road between Szolnok-Jászkisér and Szolnok-Tiszbaszély connecting road has been renewed, as well as the five-kilometer section of the Szolnok-Tiszbaszély connecting road. These sections of the road were in extremely poor condition in some places, and the contractors had to build a completely new path in some parts. The people in the region have long awaited the start of road renovations. Developing the right quality roads is a priority because their absence has a significant impact on the daily lives of economic operators and those living there. I would like to ask, with all due respect, the Secretary of State, whether it is possible to renew further sections of roads in the Jászság region, which are affected and when they can be used by the residents of the Jászság region. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-05-74	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice-President James. Goodbye. [[A round of applause from the government.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-11-05-75	Thank you very much. Welcome, fellow Members. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to expanding the motorway network, the government's priority is to raise the quality of service of other existing parts of the national road network to a higher level. A complex road renovation programme of HUF 106 billion in 2017-2018 is currently being implemented from domestic sources. As part of this, the construction of the 5 km long section of the 3224 connecting road was completed in Jászság. This year another 10,5 km long section of the village is expected to be completed, near Tiszasüly, partly in the inner area. The investment will be expected in 2019 by citizens living and travelling there. On this road there is also a three-kilometer period to be refurbished, and the timetable for the construction depends on the determination and insurance of the necessary source. A 7.5 km long section was also renewed on the 3225 route. On this road, the export plan for the repair of the 2 km long section prior to Jászkis was also completed, the construction is expected in 2019. A second, 9.2 km long and a third, 3.1 km long section running in the interior of Jászkerér are also planned. These could also take place in 2019. In addition, we are also renovating the section of road 32 between Hatvan-Szolnok between Jászfényszaru-Jászberény at a length of 14,3 kilometers. This investment is also expected to be completed in 2019. Among future investments, it is also worth highlighting the development of the Jászberény bypass in preparation. With continuous investment, the government will further improve the quality of life of people, the service quality of roads and the safety of transport in Jászság and other parts of the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-77	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior:. After all, does the Government not feel the need to take action to defend the independence of the judiciary, that the European Judicial Association has initiated a supervisory procedure to investigate the situation between OBH and OBT? It's an address. In answering this question, Prime Minister László Trócsányi appointed Minister of Justice, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have raised it several times in Parliament and we have repeatedly argued whether the government has a responsibility or whether it has a role to play in the situation in which the independence of the courts is threatened. Mr Secretary of State said earlier that there is no, and I continue to maintain that, through the right of initiative of the fundamental laws, the government does have a responsibility to ensure the legal functioning of the courts. [[13.10]] We have seen that no matter how many criticisms have been received about the activities of the National Court Office and its President, the Fairy of Hando, you did not feel that you should intervene or even make a legislative amendment before the National Assembly. Turns out, technically, recent times have confirmed that the one-man decisions of Tünde Hando are out of control, and we're not the only ones saying that. We are in fact concerned that the National Judicial Council, which should exercise control, is trying to make it impossible, and we see that its members are being hunted down one by one, classified as traitors, or as a Soros agent at the last time, while Tünde Hando has not given any meaningful answers to opposition representatives at the Justice Committee meeting for years. The Constitutional Court canceled its rule of law, so a group of judges also turned to Strasbourg. According to the latest press reports, the European Judicial Association has also initiated proceedings, and the Hungarian Judicial Association has not opposed the initiation of this process, and according to the news, the two Hungarian judicial bodies will be asked to operate in a letter. The question arises, Mr Secretary of State, that they still do not feel that they have anything to do, and that the government still does not feel that there is anything to be done to protect the judiciary, or that you have received a response from the European Judicial Association, and, if you do not yet, would you like to inform us, if this comes, what would you like to answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-05-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Hungary's Fundamental Law in force from 1 January 2012 regulates the main issues of jurisdiction, organisation, judgment and independence of the courts. Detailed rules on the administration and functioning of the courts and the status of judges are laid down in the fundamental laws adopted in 2011 and in force from 2012, as Mr President mentioned. According to the Fundamental Law, the courts are responsible for the judicial activity and record the personal or organisational guarantees of judicial independence. As is known, the Law of the Court of Justice introduced a new administrative model, resulting in a change in the person of the holder of the central administrative powers and a division of the main administrative and the main professional management function. As a result, control mechanisms have also necessarily changed. As a result of the dual management of ordinary courts, the President of the Curia is responsible for the main professional management tasks, while the President of the National Court Office performs the tasks of the central administration of the courts. The OBH is supervised by the National Judicial Council and OBT is involved in the administration of the courts. OBT is a 15-member judicial council, composed of 14 judges elected by the President of the Curia and 14 delegates of the judges. The president of the OBH is elected by the National Assembly from among the judges for nine years. Due to respect for judicial independence, the Government does not intend to intervene or intervene in any way on the issue referred to by you, as this is not constitutionally possible in the independent administrative model of the ordinary court organisation, as laid down in the Fundamental Law or in the pivotal law. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-05-81	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why do they lay low on hospital infections? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2018-11-05-82	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In 2017, some 15,389 hospital infections were registered. Experts say that about 70 percent of these hospital infections could have been eliminated if these institutions had adequate equipment and equipment. Unfortunately, over 15,000 infections have resulted in the death of some 440 people in the last year. I would like to stress, Mr House, that we are talking only about hospital infections. Experts also say that this number is likely to be significantly higher, because only infections registered in the hospital have been documented here. I know that there has been a new regulation to reduce hospital infections, but at the same time the institutions are complaining, Mr Secretary of State, that the administrative burden has increased and that they are almost unable to register. I am therefore asking, Mr Secretary of State, how, in your opinion, the number and proportion of hospital infections can be reduced. In addition, how can it be prevented that these administrative burdens can be solved by the institutions? When will the first substantive measures be expected, and when will they be publicly available? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-05-84	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Contrary to your question, your use of the word, the government does not lay low, but places all such reports on the Internet on the Antsz.hu/jarvany site. You can read last year's data before last year, and if you go to the websites of health authorities in other countries, you will not find that such detailed data will be collected by other countries and will be made public. The reason why you find it difficult to compare these data with other countries is because other countries, even countries west of us, do not collect these data and do not make them public. So there's no way to know exactly where we stand. However, as these data have now been available to the public for years, you can see that the number of hospital epidemics has decreased by 10 percent since 2015, the number of epidemics related to health care has decreased by a quarter, and one of the most common infections, while the data in Hungary is lower than the data in Finland and Germany in the case of Clostridium difficile. This shows that since 2014, since there has obviously been extra attention and additional resources devoted to this, as hospitals can manage much more than before, we spend more than HUF 648 billion on health care overall, well, this also shows the results in prevention practice, thus protecting people from the disease, possibly even more serious consequences. You have also mentioned that the government has adopted further measures and package of measures, not only can we see the positive effects of the previous ones in these feedback. On the one hand, with regard to individual risk management, and on the other hand, with regard to the availability of alcohol hand sanitizers and dispensers, it also includes a more precise description of the responsibilities of the Infection Control and Antibiotics Committee at the patient care points, and the publication of a methodological letter from the Chief Officer. So, in addition to the sickbed, at institutional management level and in terms of national management, he has also presented new tasks, and he has also allocated a large amount of HUF 2 billion to make these positive figures even more positive. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-85	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How long will this rubbish last? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-86	[[His jacket has a sticker with the inscription "Home Care" on it.]] Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Government austerity measures are now going so far that they can't actually move garbage in the country. This morning, in Newpesten, I see that not only can they not organise selective waste collection, they cannot solve it, but now their communal garbage remains in some places. Therefore, I must say that, as we predicted earlier, the restructuring that you have begun to undertake is due to the fact that the system has actually fallen apart, and you cannot solve it. They can't solve it not only in settlements with whom they could do really good now, they would do this if they were to normally solve garbage shipments, but also in metropolitan districts, as I said, that's the case in Újpesten. They managed to destroy what was lying to the debt lie in some way, which means they have to pay no less, but more. More because funding from the budget did not make it cheaper for citizens, but cost much more. They're using some kind of shuffling method, which means they're trying to solve the problem with other people. Or should I ask you, you are actually destroying the service providers involved in this on purpose so that you can have your friends transfer this service. When are they gonna take the garbage and move it? How much does it cost us and how much money has been allocated to this in disaster management anyway, to finally solve this problem, even in Newpesten? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]] [[13.20]]
u2018-11-05-87	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Shipment of waste is a communal task in which the government considered it very important for costs and prices to be acceptable to the general public in addition to the polluter-paying principle. That is why we had to take action, which is why we had to stop the process in which, in a service system that was said to be market, the prices were constantly raised, foreign companies producing high profits practically took out the money that they were able to sabotage on the residents. That is why we considered it important to keep prices in check, which is why we also needed to adapt the waste transport system. In addition, the waste cover is guaranteed by the payments and the payments are provided, so these resources are available for the transport of waste itself in sufficient quantities. There is no doubt that the collection of selective waste and the change in the quality of selective waste require additional resources to convert the processing of selective waste. The shipments of waste, as you claim, are continuous. The claim that the country would have been flooded by communal or residential waste, which would have been disposed of by residents, is factually not true; as the companies supplying waste supply waste in most parts of the country according to the contracts. Green Bridge Ltd. where there is a clear political intention to refuse services, and where disaster management is organised, transport takes place. The difference between you and me is that we're interested in transporting the waste, and you're interested in keeping the waste in this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Make a scandal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-89	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Does the Government have any acceptable explanation as to why waste transport and management is becoming a disaster issue in all municipalities instead of an environmental public service, while the Government is pouring public money into the Kukaholding project? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the last week, there has been a lot of talk about the threat of regular shipments of waste in over a hundred settlements. In many settlements and in many districts of Budapest, waste yards, mostly built with EU support, have either not been opened or have been eliminated. The selective bins stand unempted at the gates of the dwellings, while the rats appeared in a long-awaited number in the capital. What steps does the Ministry plan to take to settle the case? What scope does it have in view of the fact that in 2011 the government nationalised the waste management sector by disrupting competition relations and made a significant part of non-public services impossible? As a result of the so-called reduction in overhead charges, charges were frozen while operators were punished with new taxes, contributions and fees. As a result, the majority of public service providers have become underfunded, and some of them are unable to account not only for the use of previous EU grants, but are unable to re-establish their amortised assets. The public fee collection carried out by kukaholding is interrupted, while the money collected is late and gives little back to the actual service providers. Due to the near bankruptcy of public services, waste disposal is still in more than a hundred settlements, and as a solution to the critical situation, according to the law, BM disaster protection should help to provide the service. But with whom, with what and for how long? So what I'm asking is what kind of solution the wallet and the government are thinking about, so we don't get dumped. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2018-11-05-91	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás had listened to his reply, he would have received roughly the answers to the questions you asked. But with regard to the case you raised, unfortunately, we have no doubt that the opposition is capable of anything in the hope of political gain. Since supporting immigration, or even the Sargentini report, it is particularly clear that they are ready to face the interests of the people at any time for their own goals. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP and DK. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is no different in the case of a public waste service. Maybe that hurt the eternal cradle. [[Noise, clear in the opposition benches.]] that since the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families do not have to pay more year after year for garbage shipments than before, under socialist-liberal governments, below you, when public service charges were raised without necks, not only in the field of waste transport, but also in other areas, such as electricity and gas. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] When the months of panicking and slanderous campaign on garbage shipments proved unsuccessful, you did not hesitate to put 120,000 people in jeopardy for their political play. [[Uproar, clarity, and interrogations from the benches of MSZP and DK. Zsolt Gréczy: Take away the trash! The president's ringing the bell.]] And why? We all know what this is about. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] About... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Listen, if you're not in the background, I want you to understand. That Green Bridge Ltd. quite simply attempted to sabotage the operation of the waste shipment, setting the government responsible. And their attempt is very transparent, the horse's foot is hanging out, as the company's managing director is the former candidate for the LMP and the former deputy mayor of György Gémesi, who is allied with LMP. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the Green Bridge is the only public service provider that has not cooperated with NHKB Zrt. in order to manage its own financing. Instead, it repeatedly expressed additional resource needs which it could not support with any economic evidence. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As we have seen, the government has provided for the shipment of waste, and the matter will be settled. [[The president's ringing again.]] You will experience this in the next few days. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zsolt Gréczy: You applauded him! Bravo! Shame, shame!]]
u2018-11-05-93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Is that okay? It's an address. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2018-11-05-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to physical health. There are 3155 settlements in Hungary, of which 2,751 live in less than 4,500 inhabitants. The 2006 XCVIII. By law, 87 percent of our settlements cannot be tendered for the establishment of a pharmacy. Nearly three million people, 30 percent of the population, are unable to supply drugs. Most of our compatriots living in smaller settlements still have to go to other settlements to pick up the drugs, but I'm going to keep going. Because of the drug laws, there's no way to set up a pharmacy in more cities. In Marcali, in my constituency, you can't even apply for the place of the recently closed pharmacy, even though it would be necessary. In this district there are 34,000 people, whose drug demands will be provided by up to two pharmacists operating in Marcali. Allow me to draw your attention to the absurdity of the situation in another way. According to the Traffic Act, tobacco shops can be opened everywhere, in a few hundred settlements, but pharmacy can only be operated over 4,500 people. It is shocking that the conditions for the marketing of medicinal products are much stricter than those of tobacco products. Together with several of my fellow Members, we believe that it is also appropriate to use 3000 people as a basis for the establishment of pharmacies and to amend the pharmaceutical law accordingly. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: why has a regulation so far been maintained that adversely affects people living in settlements below 4,500 people? Whose interest is it to get cigarettes everywhere, but not drugs? Does the government support the amendment we propose? The Secretary of State has already answered a number of questions. Please be kind and answer my questions now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-05-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your questioning is based on complete error. In Hungary, even the smallest settlement can put out a pharmacy application, you can advertise it nationwide, there you can open a pharmacy... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-05-97	[[Turning to opposition benches:]] Congresswoman!
u2018-11-05-98	...in the smallest settlement, in a medium settlement, in a large settlement as well. [[13.30]] The limit of 4500 is all about the fact that in the national paper, the public authority is required to announce the application for a medicinal product if the municipality does not advertise it. This must be done over 4,500 people, there it is mandatory, and under 4,500 people, the municipality will announce the kind of tender that it wants and whenever it wants. There are, of course, a lot of pharmacies operating in settlements of less than 5,000 people. From a public pharmacy 577, from a branch drugstore 345, from a hand-held pharmacy, 150, it means that in settlements of less than 5 thousand people there is still a type of pharmacy in 1072 settlements of the many 2 thousand settlements mentioned by you. If I look at settlements between 2 thousand and 5 thousand, there are 478 of them, there are 400 of them, where there is the highest-level pharmacy, i.e. a public pharmacy. That's 83 percent coverage, thank God. This can also be said today because, in contrast to the patical liberalisation that was launched by the socialists and free democrats, which put 600 Hungarian pharmacists at risk, i.e. six hundred Hungarian pharmacists at risk of closure, we tried to support Hungarian pharmacists. You also know that in several steps we had to increase the pharmacy property to over 50 percent within the pharmacies. With a credit program, other programs, we tried to help with this. Today, pharmacy farming is much more stable. But returning to the basic question, all municipalities can, of course, put out a tender under 4500 people and open a pharmacy in their own settlement, as there are more than a thousand examples of this in Hungary today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-99	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély would like to speak, but unfortunately she has not entered the room, so... [[Lajos Korózs: I am here too, Mr President, we are together. Delight and applause. Noise, interruptions, among them: Come on! Congratulations! Lajos Korózs: Only in this case.]] Congressman, I very much believe and accept that you are together. [[Defiance.]] But in my script, only Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is included, so I'm very sorry. Since you have not previously indicated that you will submit the question together, I am not in a position to speak to you. I'm asking for your understanding, thank you. [[Noise, interruptions, including, "This was the highlight of the day." We're just curious about the party relations. We'll believe it when she's Mrs. Coros and not Bango.]] Next time it will certainly be said, we regret that Congresswoman has not returned, we have listened to her so that she can speak up. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Still do not take the worrying signs of emergency and intensive care seriously? It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor. Go, go, go, go, go, go!
u2018-11-05-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The emergency ward at the Honvéd Hospital and the ICU at the Lip Hospital have already reported storm clouds over health care. I also stressed that we are also talking about serious and systemic deficiencies in Hungarian health care, which we do not know when and where they will reappear. Sadly, this diagnosis is correct, not for the future, but for the accurate knowledge of the situation. A few days ago, the Péterfy Hospital had to conclude a billion-dollar framework contract with an external company to provide anesthesiology services, but this was also the case in Cegléd. Basically, without anesthesiology and intensive care, there is no functioning hospital. And the laws of the market are harsh: when an anesthetist comes into contact with a private company, he does so for significantly higher wages. So the trend is beginning to emerge, and the huge danger here is that, in the case of deficiency professions, specialists contract with private companies, and thus separate themselves from the civil servant status, increasing further the shortage of staff there. Hospitals would hardly use an expensive solution for private companies if they had enough professionals for the wages they could pay. That's why the facial rescue announcement of twice the number of specialists leaving the hospital in his lips was frivolous. I know that you do not have the strength to give a clear answer to the question asked, but I will try. Do you know how many Hungarian medical institutions there are doctors and nurses, surrogate doctors and nurses working in at the moment? What else needs to happen to be taken seriously to ensure that hospital care is continued [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Is it necessary to ensure a radical increase in funding and, at the same time, to reorganise the system from the foundations? I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to state some numbers, amounts, facts regarding the two hospitals you mentioned. One of them is the Honvéd Hospital. In 2010, the Honvéd Hospital was able to farm from HUF 16 billion, and today it can farm from HUF 33 billion. This is a HUF 16 billion budget increase of 101 percent. The lips of the Hungarian Imre Hospital could farm from 1.9 billion forints in 2012, and now it can farm from 3.5 billion forints. This is a HUF 1.6 billion, 82 percent increase in funding. And as for the news you quoted or referred to, let me quote Gábor Zacher's interview on this:. There have been a lot of distorted articles about us in the press, while the institution's emergency center has been working 24 hours a year with a lot of patients and serious professional challenges. I will continue to quote Gábor Zacher: the opposition media were fond of topics that they thought could undermine Hungarian health care and thus forge questionable political benefits. He also tells us that 63,000 patients are being treated every year, 0.6 percent of whom cannot be saved, so they are doing superhuman work. Here, the chief doctor also told us what is really happening in Hungary. You are trying to capitalize on political capital from an isolated case, while you have introduced the era of withdrawal of funds, hospital closure, dismissals and visitation fee in the Hungarian health system. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP spends HUF 647 billion more on health in next year's budget than the Socialists spent, which is 1.5 per cent higher than the Socialists' budget in 2010. In addition, we did not take a month's wages from doctors and nurses, but we increased the gross wage of doctors by HUF 207 thousand in two years, and we double it for nurses between 2012 and 19 and we plan to continue in both cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-103	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the Government and the Ministry of Health do to reduce foreseeable diseases and deaths resulting from certain environmental harms? Madam Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We receive daily news about the critical situation of domestic health care. Perhaps this is why health preservation is less often mentioned, an important factor of which is regular health screening of vulnerable groups. For decades, we have known that microscopic fibers of asbestos inhaling the lungs cannot break down, so they cause severe respiratory diseases, conjunctivitis, lung tissue scarring, asbestososis, pleuropneumonia and lung cancer. Risks do not decrease as time progresses, so they can also make the generations, our children, who are growing up ill. This problem affects more than 20,000 apartments in Hungary today, but also hospitals, kindergartens, schools, hotels, shops and offices. There was an asbestos case in Hungary where, despite the accelerated procedure, none of the plaintiffs lived to judge because they died of asbestos-induced diseases. In the 1990s, a national asbestos removal programme was launched, but its implementation was interrupted during the Fidesz administration. Is healthcare concerned with monitoring how many asbestos-related diseases and deaths have been diagnosed nationally? Based on the home and medical records, did they estimate the extent of the problem? [[13.40]] Another question is what opportunities you see in order to detect people at risk in order to control the progress of diseases. I would also like to ask you if you are planning to take steps to ensure that the root cause, the discharge of scattered asbestos, is resumed as soon as possible under the national programme. I await your reply.
u2018-11-05-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The national waste management plan adopted for the period 2014-2020 is clear: it has a specific programme, the asbestos waste disposal programme, which summarises the objectives that we want to achieve by 2020. The first is the removal and disposal of asbestos-containing products, the second point is the minimization of the adverse health effects caused by the presence of asbestos in Hungary and the third is the elimination of the negative impact of asbestos on the environment. I think you were very good at the beginning of your speech when you said that the most important thing is the prevention of diseases in all areas, including asbestos. With a spatial information system, a térepidemiology system, experts examine the territorial differences between pleural tumors, precisely so that the presence of asbestos can be determined. This is examined by the occupational health service in relation to workers, and obviously they also pay great attention to job checks, but the health sector also provides all kinds of professional support, since it is in our common interest to prevent these diseases and save these lives. The fourth national environmental programme includes a requirement to encourage both removal and professional disposal of existing asbestos roofing construction materials, and, as I said, our waste management plan also aims at disposal. Where the government has been able to move, it has moved everywhere, even in downtown Budapest, in rural settlements we try to reduce the asbestos exposure of workers and people living there, the risk of contamination, so that this disease is not very serious in some areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-107	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Does the concept of autumn drought have to be introduced? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2018-11-05-108	Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Since then, the drought has been announced, with the exception of a few walks throughout the country; as the weather is increasing in temperature, the risk of drought is increasing. This year we have come to the point that the fall lack of precipitation is one of the biggest problems in agriculture. Although the two weeks behind us brought some precipitation, the extremely long drought still causes serious problems in agriculture. Autumn rape has stopped growing, and autumn wheat has never hatched in many places. In case of heavy precipitation, there is also a question of the proper sprouting. During the period behind us, the average rain fell by between 40 and 50 millimeters, resulting in a severe water shortage in the soil, along with the pre-emptive precipitation period. We need a large, nationally thought-out solution supported by EU and domestic funds, sustainable and accepted by the majority society. So it is not acceptable in the future that floods threaten us almost every year on a river, and then, after a few weeks after the roofing, the same area is hit by drought. It's not reasonable, it's not sustainable and it's not good for anyone. Therefore, the question arises as to why the large national irrigation strategy that you have been promising since 2010 has not yet been launched. What else is needed to realise that the minimum, a few percent irrigable area that exists in Hungary today is very little, so that production security cannot be maintained, competitiveness cannot be increased, and this is not the direction in which XXI is headed at all. Would it result in modern and sustainable agriculture in the century? I understand that, in this situation, we do not yet know whether this 30 percent crop loss will occur, but we can assume, so my speech remains current and is extremely important in view of the future. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-05-110	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Irrigation development is a complex topic that affects the specialities of several government actors, so our wallet is in close cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. One of the results of our joint work is the forthcoming Irrigation Development Strategy, to which you referred, on which the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy assessed the needs of farmers for irrigation in areas where the surface water supply is currently available or can be made available by small intervention. The development directions for the next period will be determined on the basis of the results of this survey. A government decision issued in September provides an annual HUF 17 billion development resource for the development of public irrigation works between 2020 and 2030. The order of developments has been determined taking into account the needs of the producers and the preparation of the development of the relevant public works can start next year. In addition to the provision of irrigation water, it is necessary to organise producer water requirements, for which we have also developed the concept of irrigation agencies. It is also a government effort to facilitate the conditions for irrigation, one of which is to extend the period of validity of water rights permits. We are also particularly concerned with the subsequent mitigation of drought damage, and the agricultural risk management system is currently in a position to compensate for drought damage. In recent years, approximately 41,3 percent of all compensation benefits have been paid for drought damage. The definition of drought is not seasonal, we have already agreed on this, as it is a drought, a natural event in which the rainfall within 30 consecutive days is less than 10 millimeters. Therefore, it is still possible to address drought damage in autumn in the compensation scheme and the drought damage in autumn is already expected to be the 2019 compensation year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-111	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. Before continuing our work on immediate questions, Mr Péter Ungár, Member LMP, indicated his intention to speak on a point of order. I'd like to ask what the point of the order of business is, Mr. Congressman.
u2018-11-05-112	State Secretary Cseresnyés's response, personal involvement. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]]
u2018-11-05-113	Honourable Congressman, The Member's personal response to the question of personal concern...
u2018-11-05-114	Well, as a member of the waste mafia... [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2018-11-05-115	Excuse me, Congressman. Only the Member concerned may apply and speak on these matters...
u2018-11-05-116	But I witnessed the crimes of the trash mafia...
u2018-11-05-117	Excuse me, Congressman. I'm not arguing with you. Rule 20. If you'd like to be informed, please. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Only the Member concerned in personal contact may speak. Thank you. [[Peter Ungár intervenes. Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Dear Parliament, I do not remember Mr Péter Ungár speaking on this matter today. Please, let's take each other seriously. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with immediate questions. László György Lukács and Lajos Rig, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Welcome to the House. You are a very rare guest of the House, and there is something to talk about when it comes to health care, not just because you are the Minister responsible for this area, but because you are also a doctor. Everyone can see that since you're the minister, health care is in a crisis. Of course, you are not the only one responsible for this, because this has been going on for a long time, and the Orbán government has actually seen this as a special sign that the health care ball is in place, if you will. But it's worth looking into what's connected to your name, and, Minister, as I think about it all, it's actually nothing positive but the negatives. Since sitting in his ministerial seat for more than 160 days, there has been a crisis in emergency care facilities, there has been no way to prevent the shortage of GP practices, the workers feel just as bad at work, and the patients do not feel safe, they see terrifying hospital infection data. [[13.50]] We can also say a case, such as the case of László Székely, a heart surgeon, which I believe has been a good characterizing and as a credo, summarizing the work of your ministry. Minister, you were expected to do much more than that, not only because you are a minister as a doctor, but because the Orbán government has promised to put health care in order. You've been frozen for the past 160 days. He failed to respond to anything properly, failed to respond to emergency crises, failed to respond to crises in the individual, either in the lips hospital or in the Honvéd Hospital, and even managed to create a symbolic case from Dr. Székely's case that continues to poison the everyday health care. Dear Minister, It's time for you to answer honestly and face a mirror and confess what you've done in the past few days. Minister, is it because of you that Secretary Anikó Nagy resigned? You feel responsible for that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to Székely László due to removal of patients [[The president's ringing again.]] Are they left unattended? Minister, can you look the relatives in the eye honestly and say that you don't feel your responsibility in this? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-11-05-119	Dear Parliament, I would ask all my fellow Members to respect the time frame. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-05-120	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My fellow Member! Congressman's office! I'd like to say that I've been head of the institute for 26 years and for 40 or a few years as a doctor face patients and society. To answer your questions specifically, we have done nothing but work for 160 days. We have established provisions against hospital infections, we have developed the concept of restructuring basic care, we have developed a plan to transform emergency care, we have developed five national programmes ranging from prevention to rehabilitation, structure, activity and funding, the framework of the public health programme. So what I can tell you is that we have worked very hard. On the other hand, you used what happened at the Gottsegen Institute to intimidate patients and hystericalize them. The National Centre for Public Health has investigated the case on its own initiative. He found that, in the case of the unfortunately deceased patient, Dr. Székely was required to perform surgery as a matter of urgency within 24-48 hours at that time, there was no mention of resigning him, but instead ordered a prosthesis with a production time of at least 30 days. The hospital's management cannot be held responsible for this. The report of the Institute of Public Health is available, and please study carefully, unlike the seat of St. Augustine's bishop. The second thing: everything... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-121	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply; of course you will still have the opportunity to speak to the Minister in the next response. Congressman, you have a rejoinder in one minute. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-122	Minister, you've worked, but no one can see it; you've worked, but no one can see it, and that's the real problem. The patients, the relatives, and even the medical staff, they don't realize that any of your work has been conceived. Mr. Secretary, we have prepared one thing: we have gathered it, the people have gathered it, how you saved health care, a publication that I will deliver to you. [[He's showing it to me.]] Turn the page, it's all blank. Minister, I wish for you to fill this and work for the benefit of the Hungarian people during the remaining period, which, according to the news, is short enough for you, or rather short enough time. I suggest that you save health care and not just work for the desk drawer and not only in abstract programs, but also tidy up emergency care, tidy up the health care system, and look the relatives in the eyes of the Székely case at last, solve all the things that are pushing the current health care system. Minister, you have the ball, you have the responsibility; it will cost you your chair if you do not comply. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-123	Dear Parliament, Please, Mr. Congressman, when the Minister has responded, please do not disturb the Minister and take a seat. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-124	Thank you very much. I would like to say to the Member that I have written 22 books so far, my announcements are hundreds and my lectures. The most extensive book, the complex oncotherapy protocol, is 2500 pages. Don't worry, we'll write the book you've been holding, but in a memorable way. It's not freezing, it's not warming. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-125	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question. ? It's an address. The President of the Hungarian National Bank appointed Mr.István Nagy as Vice-President for his response because of an urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts the person of the responder. [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes, thank you very much.]] Or ask the President himself for an answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Last time I asked you a question about foreign exchange loans, you said that this problem is no longer a problem in Hungary, I almost quote the Vice-President literally. Since then, I have received many e-mails, in the order of hundreds, from Hungarian voters and families who do not feel this way, as you said. According to them, there is still a serious problem with foreign exchange lending in Hungary, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families suffer from this trap, and many e-mails indicated that the banks did not provide adequate information to customers, and the economic environment at the time was stable in terms of exchange rate before 2008, so there was no risk factor that a simple, non-Economic mortal Hungarian citizen could have experienced with his own eyes, what the risks of a currency jumping a lot or, where appropriate, weakening the rate of the forint. So in Hungarian, there was no personal experience, and they said that these clients who contacted me did not receive adequate information from the banks, what risks, what risks such a person might have. This is important because if they have not been properly informed, then, of course, their responsibility is also lower, or, where appropriate, they have no responsibility on this issue. I would therefore ask the Vice-President whether you believe that the banks have fulfilled all their information obligations when concluding these credit agreements. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-11-05-127	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice-President István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-11-05-128	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Members, Let me say again, however, that today there is no foreign currency credit, no foreign currency loans, so I continue to maintain my claim that foreign currency loans do not exist, as foreign currency loans were converted at the beginning of 2015 during the government's or Parliament's decision at the end of 2014. So if someone showed me a statistic of where foreign currency loans are in the country right now, I'd be looking at a lot of this. There are no foreign currency loans in the retail sector. The problem raised by you is whether the banks have properly informed customers about the exchange rate risk, another issue, since the information obligation arises for each loan, whether it is interest rate risk or exchange rate risk. Here you refer to a European court decision that was born in September, but this did not bring anything new, as it is very much in line with the current position of the Curia, and that every individual client has the opportunity to appeal to the court in respect of its contract. And regardless of whether this is a foreign exchange loan contract or a regular forint-interest loan contract, there is also a risk, one has a risk of exchange rate and the other has an interest rate risk, and if not properly informed, it can act against banks. [[14.00]] So once again, I would like to confirm that this decision, whether it is the Curia or the European Court of Justice, has not assigned any task to the State or the MNB and does not evaluate their activities, but says that it gives further professional guidance to the Hungarian courts on how to examine the needs of customers in these cases. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-130	I just couldn't answer yes or no, so I asked you a very simple question. By the way, I'm not that stupid. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's vote on this.]] So I wouldn't know what he was talking about. So I wasn't talking to you about whether foreign currency lending exists in Hungary, but what you said was that there is no foreign currency credit problem in Hungary. I don't know, you, too, I suppose, have the Hungarian language, which means two separate statements. The other: I would like to quote you from a conference. On 1 July 2015, at the conference entitled "Some Questions About the Invalidity of Consumer Loan Contracts" you said that you did not think about exchange rate risk. On the one hand, they did not think because they were not explained to them, but the other is that the exchange rate of the forint relative to the euro and the Swiss franc was relatively stable in this system until 2008, we see a horizontal line. You said that yourself at this conference. Now, if that's true, what action have you taken against the banks? I mean, you're not the judge of a university cathedron, you're the vice president of the National Bank, and you have custody, so if you weren't explained to them, then you should have made a move. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2018-11-05-131	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Mr. Vice President in return. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-11-05-132	So I was referring to the legal cases, because you mentioned that this was a law school lecture, where there are court cases where somewhere is explained, somewhere is not explained. You bring cases where it's not explained. This has a legal consequence, but it is for each client and for that court to decide. Once again, the MNB does not have the opportunity to do so, nor does it have a task to do so, but the court must do so at its own discretion. So if you're asking me whether this is what I think it was or what it was, it's not my jurisdiction to judge. It is the jurisdiction of the courts, and everyone has the right to turn to the courts that much. And in case of individual legal cases, this decision will be made here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-133	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Does the government help foreign exchange lenders? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-05-134	Thank you very much. I'd like to wait for Minister, I've been there before.
u2018-11-05-135	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that he will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. When will the settlement bonds be accounted for? It's an address. Minister Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, has appointed a response to the urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-05-136	I am honoured to be able to discuss this with Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-137	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-138	Thank you very much. As a subtitle, I would like to put it this way, and I would like to draw your attention to this, and I would like to point out to you when Fidesz's salesmen are to be accounted for with a resettlement obligation, and a settlement should now be made for you. In the Committee on Budgets, we now ask for and demand that this be accounted for for for for many times. Until now, you have refused to do so, and now the program is officially closed. The State Debt Management Center claims that this state has made a profit of HUF 3 billion, while experts estimate that the total amount of HUF 28 500 000 billion in government debt, which you have actually used, has resulted in a loss of HUF 30 billion to the State. According to Ákos Bod Péter, once proposed by Fidesz as the joint prime minister of the right, there was no need for this bond issue anyway, because they could have done it much cheaper than that. However, even if the Hungarian economy did not need this business, the greater the need for the opaque offshore companies selling bonds to gain HUF 150 billion in revenue. This was, by the way, a revenue of EUR 29 000 for each of the EUR 300 000 revenues, and this is only part of it. That is why I ask Minister or Secretary of State: are you a minister, a public servant, to cover up such rubbish and to explain them, or is the Minister willing to account for this money tomorrow under the discharge law, in the framework of the committee meeting, for what they have done? If you have the courage to come there tomorrow, then come and do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-05-139	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to make some corrections to your speech. The first is that there is no such thing as a deposit policy. [[László Varju: Yes, there is!]] I'm sure you said it by accident, it's a settlement policy. Secondly, offshore companies did not pay for this, as it was a condition for the application, for the application to be a transparent company. My third correction is that the Minister of Finance must appear before the Committee on Budgets under the law. Please wait for Minister to appear and answer all your questions. The fourth question you didn't talk about, and I'd like it to be a question of credibility. How credible your question about sovereign debt is, when, when you were a member of the governing party, a responsible pro-government leader, a government leader, Hungary went bankrupt, that's when the financial crisis took place. Your current party leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was the Prime Minister of Hungary. He contracted with the IMF to take out 20 billion forints of credit, and he did so in such a way that the time of repayment was not due for his prime ministership, but that the Fidesz government had to answer for this loan to be repaid. Indeed, the Fidesz government had to decide to continue to pay the IMF loan to the country, thereby gaining political influence, or involving other loans or external resources in order to pay off the debt you have taken. Yeah, and one of the options was the settlement policy, and whatever you're talking about about this policy, it wasn't harmful to this country. Yes, that decision was then beneficial to the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman is entitled to a rejoinder in one minute. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-142	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, When I was State Secretary, the euro was 260 forints, and the petrol was 300 forints. How much now? The petrol is 400 HUF, it is no longer available, and by the way, with the EUR 300 HUF the foreign exchange loan was deliberately destroyed by the fact that the exchange rate was damaged. But look here, listen to me for a second, Secretary of State. I'm going to show you the chart of how much more you've spent on the resettlement policy that you've made, compared to what you could have taken from the European Bank. That is why it is legitimate to claim the excess payment of HUF 150 billion, the discrediting of the State Treasury, and that is why you can get into a situation where you cannot otherwise pay for home care, finance or even the Hungarian Academy of Sciences... the 26 billion HUF there will cause you nothing but trouble, and such things will happen instead of collecting the money. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-05-143	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister has the right to reply. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-144	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, What I would like to say to the public of Parliament is that the calculation that Congressman Varju refers to comes from an expert study that comes from an expert institute financed by Transparency International. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] His name is Balázs Romhányi. Balázs Romhányi is known to carry out anti-government studies with economics, based on political order, funded by György Soros. [[14.10]] The Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, has to argue with these figures. I do not want to argue about this, I just want to state that the Hungarian government won HUF 3 billion on this interest rate issue. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How did you calculate this? How much did Zeb cost?]] And we know that from the credible calculation of the State Debt Management Center. Otherwise, this example is not unknown, since Austria, Portugal and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the United Kingdom, the settlement government bond system was operating in a similar manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-145	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When will Hungarian legislation bring justice to three and a half million people? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr László Trócsányi Minister of Justice to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-11-05-146	I would like a personal response from Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-147	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Do you plan to finance the construction of local government social housing in order to resolve the housing crisis? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-05-148	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The migration of young people in Hungary is a huge problem...
u2018-11-05-149	Forgive me, Congresswoman, I made a mistake.
u2018-11-05-150	He didn't say who...
u2018-11-05-151	Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2018-11-05-152	I accept, yes. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-153	Yes, please understand. Here you go. We've reset the clock.
u2018-11-05-154	Thank you. Dear House, The migration of young people and the difficulty of starting a family is a huge problem in Hungary. Unfortunately, there has been no social or rental construction programme in recent years, even though there is an increasing need for these solutions. CSOK only provides a solution for a certain narrower layer, and it can also lead to the debt of families, which, as the past period has shown, is not a safe solution. For the first time and unfortunately, after the change of regime, the Orbán government operating between 1998 and 2002 announced a rental-building programme. According to the information provided by KSH, 14 389 new apartments were built in 2017, but this was not from public investment, but from private power. Although half-yearly data in 2018 show stagnation, this is probably the result of the labour shortage brake. At the same time, there has been a drastic increase in prices on the market, but the construction of apartments has almost stopped in the country, while this would give young people the opportunity to start their lives. I propose that by 2019 the government allocate an appropriate amount to support young people's rentals and return to their best plans 18 years ago, thus encouraging young people to stay home. Another problem is that labour fees have recently been released in the construction sector, unfortunately there is a serious increase, which, apparently, has not yet stopped, so today the average price of a residential property in turnable conditions in Budapest can average 700 thousand forints per square meter, and in the countryside it can be 180 thousand forints per square metre. However, a well-functioning rental building program would speed up the Hungarian construction industry, but it would also provide an encouraging vision for young Hungarians. That is why I am asking you if you are planning to finance the construction of municipal social housing in order to resolve the housing crisis. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-155	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In your question, you say that there is a housing crisis in Hungary, and you are asking the question in order to resolve it. I would like to start by saying that there is no housing crisis in Hungary. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] The last housing crisis in Hungary was in 2010, when Fidesz took over government from the socialists, since all the support schemes for home creation were abolished by the socialist government operating in the two cycles. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] It liquidated the interest rate subsidy, liquidated the personal income tax relief and eliminated the so-called Socpol system. There was a housing crisis at the time. In 2010, the government started to eliminate this, but it was already the Fidesz government. The first serious task was to face up to how we would protect people from losing their homes, as the problem of foreign exchange lending affected hundreds of thousands of millions of families. I think that the government and parliamentary activities carried out from 2010 to 2015 have greatly helped to ensure that hundreds of thousands of people do not lose their homes. Then the government announced its clear ideas and programme of home creation, the aim of which is to make sure that all Hungarians get their own homes, because unlike you, that you are talking about apartment rentals, you have to look at the Hungarian people's thinking, the Hungarian people think that I feel comfortable in the apartment that is my own property. Comparison with other countries [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] other countries think differently in Europe. In Hungary, a system must be developed by the government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Hungarian government has done this, which brings people and families to their own homes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Then I'll keep going.
u2018-11-05-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I didn't get an answer to my question. I understand that the Hungarian people think so and so, but the Hungarian people now think, fortunately, that they do not dare to enter into bigger loans, because it can lead to the debt of families, as has been shown by recent events. And by the way, I understand the answer, but I don't understand, because you didn't answer the question. So what you said is an answer to a question, but not mine. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-159	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-160	Thank you, Mr. President, I'd like to continue. So the government worked out, after solving the foreign exchange crisis, indeed, the family home-building discount system, the home-building program. Since July 1, 2015, this programme has been operational and until September, some 90 thousand families have used it for HUF 257 billion. The government is working to expand this. It has already been decided that families with two children can also benefit from the interest rate discount loan scheme, which amounts to HUF 10 million. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , while the three children will benefit from an additional increase in the amount of credit. The government is thinking about further enlargement and will create the so-called village CSOK system. The goal of the government is, once again, to give every Hungarian family, as far as possible, a home of their own, with this new home creation program. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-161	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:.. Why is Szilárd Kiss, Putin's man in Hungary untouchable? It's an address. Mr. Prosecutor General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General, to answer the question in an urgent manner. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the answer personally from the Attorney General.
u2018-11-05-162	Thank you for asking, Mr President. The question of why the Fidesz Attorney General is defending the Fidesz Putin agent...
u2018-11-05-163	Congressman, I expect your answer to accept the person who is responding.
u2018-11-05-164	I'd like to answer in full sentence.
u2018-11-05-165	Do you accept the response or not? Yes or no, Congressman?
u2018-11-05-166	I don't accept the identity of the responder. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-167	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is the Government up to? It's an address. Prime Minister László Trócsányi appointed Minister for Justice to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2018-11-05-168	Mr President, I accept the person who is responding, but I think that Minister will be in a bit of trouble, because it does not concern his territory.
u2018-11-05-169	Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[14.20]]
u2018-11-05-170	He's got a soul on him... Well, then, Minister. Népszava has a plan that the government would collect the price of healthcare for those who do not have proper social security. So far, only the unpaid contributions have to be paid, but then the full cost of medical care will have to be reimbursed, which may sometimes amount to several hundred thousand forints. According to the data of the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, there are currently no guarantees for 400,000 people, and when checking the number of owners of every 20 patients, the system reports any errors. If the news is true, this means that half a million people will have to pay back hundreds of thousands of forints of medical expenses afterwards. We know that this problem affects the most vulnerable, who have no employment or, for some reason, their employer simply did not pay their contributions or taxes. The stakes are not small, because in an average case, the health insurance company pays HUF 195 thousand for hospital care, but for example, the treatment of the heart attack starts at HUF 375 thousand, and the chemotherapy treatment of a cancer patient reaches HUF 700,000. We also know from government circles that Viktor Orbán and Miklós Kásler are preparing for the full privatisation of health care, that private institutions are supported with public money, while state hospitals are completely empty, there is no doctor or nurse left. Dear Minister, If you have received the information from Bence Rétvári and Miklós Kásler, then answer the question: does such a draft legislation exist that people who do not have social security have to pay the fees for examinations and treatments afterwards? How does the government imagine paying hundreds of thousands of penniless or people who make, say, 150 to 200 thousand forints a month, even a half million forints in treatment? Why is the government kicking the most vulnerable again? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-171	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Justice László Trocsányi. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-05-172	Thank you very much. Dear Congresswoman, I would like to respond very simply to what the government is up to: this is not something the government is preparing for. It is false news, which the NEAK has refuted, and accordingly do not give the false news any real basis, my dear Congresswoman. So the answer is clear: the government is not preparing for this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-173	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-174	Thank you for the floor, Minister. Well, that's good news, I understand, so they're not gonna have to pay for the missed social security. However, I would like to continue to answer the other question, how this privatisation is planned. We know very well that the most vulnerable will not be able to receive medical care again, they will not be able to receive any evaluable care in public hospitals, because there will be no nurses there, there will be no doctors. We know that the state will finance private care to cover medical and nursing shortages in some way. We are still waiting for an answer from the Minister. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-175	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-05-176	Thank you very much. I think that this government can rarely be attacked by being pro-privatism. So I think it's also a false rumor that privatisation would take place here. I must also add that the false news in the People's Day is the false news. I repeat, there is no intention for the government to privatise, as opposed to the period before 2010, when privatisation was a kind word. Privatization is not very acceptable to today's government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-177	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. Homeland Security Review and investigation against Márta Demeter have been launched! Can the politician's right of access to public data be limited until the truth is known? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr István Szilárd Németh State Secretary for his response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-178	Dear Secretary of State, Several weeks have passed since Márta Demeter, deputy leader of the LMP faction, ran through the personality rights of the family of a Hungarian soldier serving in the United Nations mission because of self-serving political gain. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] He made lies about the Prime Minister's underage daughter, and he also made public non-public military information. On the one hand, it has demonstrated that it is unfit to hold a responsible position in the field of defence and police protection and on the other hand, it confirms the suspicion that continuous access to and reporting of documents in non-public material may be capable of leaking confidential or even classified information. As we've seen, if you have to, you'll run over anyone and anything if it's about building a political career. If necessary, a two - year - old girl will be used to lie again about the Prime Minister and his family. It is more clear than ever that this activity by Mrs. Congresswoman is not intended to serve the safety of our country and the Hungarian people, but rather to pose a national security risk and violates defence interests. However, the most inconvenient and unprecedented case of political history after the change of regime for career building can only be resolved with satisfaction if the truth is revealed. To this end, Fidesz filed a complaint with the prosecutor's office, and Lajos Kósa, the chairman of the commission, initiated a national security screening of the congresswoman. Dear Secretary of State, Knowing the Member's long-standing vehement to know non-public or classified material, and seeing this case, it is particularly dangerous that she may still be a member and vice-president of the Defence and Police Committee. With all this in mind, we ask whether, until the national security procedure and investigation against Márta Demeter has been completed, her access to sensitive data may be limited, because it is in all our interests that this does not happen again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary István Németh Szilárd. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-180	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The LMP would be the only one responsible on this issue, since the LMP is able, with regard to the legislative environment, to have a member in office, who is vice-president of the commission, and can hold a number of other political posts, for example, he was elected co-chair of the LMP, just after the scandal, and the opposition stands behind him in its entirety, which has also been made clear by yelling at your question, so the LMP alone has the opportunity to recall the representative from the very important posts that will help you get sensitive military and national security data. The Ministry of Defence, the Hungarian Defence Office, is paying great attention to the fact that Parliament controls the Ministry, the parliamentary commission controls the defence, and therefore all Members must be put in a position, not only by law, but also our political, moral duty and responsibility, so that they can be properly informed and carry out their control rights. But a congressman can't abuse that right, he can't abuse his immunity. Marta Demeter abused all of them. Now at LMP the ball bounces, he is the one who can recall it from the head of the commission, where 80-90 percent of the information received in this commission is not public, secret, sensitive military and national security data, or recall it from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to which the LMP delegated it. And since the LMP has been included in Parliament on its national list, I think that you should also call it back from this Parliament, because he, I would like to stress, has abused his right to know all military and national security data; he has falsified them. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-05-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that what you have said is quite clear that it is unacceptable for some opposition representatives to run over anyone and anything in order to build their careers. If necessary, even non-public military information is presented as false false news, it is sold as false false news so that they can make progress. I think it's outrageous, and it's outrageous that they're using a child for all of this. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] Honourable Congressman, As a practicing father, I find it outrageous that a child is being used for political purposes, and the entire opposition stands unitedly behind the congresswoman, who, on the basis of this false rumor, produced lies. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I find it outrageous! And, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that, on this basis, it is clear what the LMP and Márta Demeter should do: they should give up their mandate. [[Gergely Harvesto: Give him an example.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.30]]
u2018-11-05-183	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-05-184	Mr President, I agree with you, Congressman. Márta Demeter did not even bother or dare to face the soldier and his family whose safety was otherwise compromised by the disclosure of the data. We know about a NATO mission where leaked data cost soldiers their lives. Márta Demeter could have done so by apologizing to the soldier, his family, the Prime Minister and his family, as well as to the defence, because I think he is also risking the good news of the Hungarian Defence Service when he publishes unpublic military data about a UN mission; moreover, by misrepresenting the meaning of those military data, the meaning of those national security training data, his message, in a false way. That's why we filed a complaint against Márta Demeter at the D.A.'s office. The review of Márta Demeter's national security review will hopefully be initiated by the Speaker of Parliament. I think that the Data Protection Commissioner will also order an investigation, as he used personal data, data from the military's family. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the pro-government, murmuring in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-11-05-185	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, please, fellow Members. , György Szilágyi, Márton Gyöngyösi, Tibor Bana, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Prime Minister László Trócsányi appointed Minister for Justice as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-05-186	The lies and slanders will fly off me, and I will continue my journey and wait for Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-187	Congressman, we need a one-word answer from everyone. You will have the opportunity to make your point during the speech. Dear Parliament, One second, please. Loránt Hegedűs and Lajos Kepli, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Political communication is not about public and open discourse; it is about the government's position being pushed forward by select or less selective means. I am not saying this, but your former minister, a former Fidesz minister, Zoltán Balog, said that, and we see an eloquent example of this every day in Parliament. And an example of this was the last response to my colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs' interpellation. Already at that time, we warned the government that the incompetent attitude of kukaholding was a threat to shipments of waste across the entire territory of Hungary. In this connection, two specific cases were mentioned, one being the case of the Green Bridge and the other being the case of the Metropolitan Public Space Keeper. In the latter case, István Tarlós himself intervened with Prime Minister, in order to give the public area operator the right to collect the payment by early March, and in the meantime, from the centrally collected fees, he was promised to receive the part which he had not received before, or was only significantly delayed. We are very pleased that we managed to settle this in the case of Budapest, but Hungary is made up of a lot more settlements, and garbage transport is still in danger in many settlements. In this connection, some questions arise as to when public service providers there can get their money. Will they be able to take the waste and waste from the population tomorrow, next week? Why do we still have to wait to admit that this waste management system you have set up is not working? It is very interesting, of course, why you have withdrawn the license from the Green Bridge, despite the fact that if you had received the payment that was due to him, you would have been able to carry out your task. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He didn't move the garbage, but he got his dues.]] Does this have anything to do with the fact that the Green Bridge has been the one that has been criticizing waste management since the beginning, the activity of national tuckahending? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-189	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-190	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First, let's break the fact that the Green Bridge has received the compensation for the performance of the service, so it has actually become part of a political game. But before I say a few words about this, a few sentences, let's look back a few years, look back where we started. After all, in 2010, the new government, the Orbán government, decided to put an end to the state in which Hungarian families could be viewed as an unfair source of extra profit. During the pre-2010 period, the social liberal government, with which you sometimes winked in the campaign, increased the public service fee significantly. Electricity and gas prices have doubled and tripled and, for example, the cost of shipments of waste has increased significantly. But not just speaking in general, let me give you a specific example. I lived and live in Nagykanizsa. At the time when I was involved in the management of the city, say, in 2006, the removal of a waste in a certain amount of waste was 364 HUF, in 2010 it was more than 500 HUF, 533 HUF. So the cost of transporting waste increased by 50 percent. This had to be eliminated, among other things, in the field of waste transport. This is why we have forced waste companies to make a very serious rationalization by reducing their fees, which we have maintained ever since. And, of course, this rationalization involved very serious work, but it has not been anywhere that shipments of waste have been compromised anywhere. Or, if this had happened, disaster control would have intervened at that moment, and as it has done now in the case of the Green Bridge, it will ensure the continuity of shipments of waste by a few days. After all, despite receiving the compensation, the Green Bridge itself announced that it did not want to continue the shipment of waste in the region. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-191	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-192	Dear Secretary of State, I was not a member of the former social-liberal government, so neither I nor my faction bear any responsibility in this regard. So I'm gonna throw this ball back. Moreover, we are not the ones who are using the waste management system for political purposes, for political repression. It's very clear and unnecessary, and the garbage needs to be moved. We also supported the reduction of the rent at the time, and there is nothing on our conscience in this Parliament every time we had to vote on it. However, this does not relieve you of the responsibility for creating a system where someone else performs the service and another central company collects the remuneration for it. And they did set up a system that didn't work, and it didn't pay back the remuneration to the service companies in sufficient quantities. That's why the service is jammed. That's why they don't take the trash. So there's no need to bullshit, the system's not working right now. We are all interested in the development of a well-functioning system, where both the public and the environmental and waste management aspects apply. So I cannot accept that answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-193	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-194	Honourable Congressman, Today, I do not know how many times, perhaps for the fourth time, we are talking about the potential problems of shipments of waste, and on each occasion we have stated that not only I, but also Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, that in most parts of the country, except perhaps the area covered by the Green Bridge, waste is being transported. So they move the waste, there's no particular problem anywhere. The solution to the financing is that both NHKV Zrt. and the government are responsible for ensuring the conditions. Let us, however, return to what is driving this problem, which we are now chewing on for many times and talking to Parliament. What I have already said is that there are two leading personalities in Green Híd Kft., one of the LMP candidates was the mayor of Gödöllő, a politician close to LMP. The leader of this particular Green Bridge Ltd. was, by the way, the deputy mayor of Gödöllő before he was a candidate. They create political sensations, political events that should not be. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.40]]
u2018-11-05-195	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-05-196	Yeah.
u2018-11-05-197	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government, as has been the case so far, supports municipal development, including the renovation of nursery, kindergarten, protective, medical and sports institutions, as well as inland roads and sidewalks. The annual development proposal has three main objectives: the development, renovation, development of sports facilities and renovation of inland roads, sidewalks and bridges. The municipalities have two years to use the resources they receive. It is important to mention here that since 2010, this budget for support for municipal development has increased significantly, almost doubled, with the support of settlements for nursery, kindergarten and school infrastructure developments and renovations. This amount was almost 7.5 billion forints last year. This year, for example, the development of municipal-owned kindergarten and nursery cuisine can start in 99 settlements out of HUF 3 billion, thus helping to feed children. Since 2015, the budget has helped not only to operate but also to develop infrastructure. In recent years, nearly 400 settlements have received tender support for catering developments. Dear Secretary of State, An important element of the policy of the government and the Christian Democratic People's Party is to contribute as much as possible to improving the lives of families. Based on the good economic performance achieved together, we can devote more than ever to the development of a local institutional system to support the lives of families, and as long as the Fidesz-KDNP government controls Hungary, this is expected to continue in the future. That is why, with all due respect, I am asking Minister, how this year the support of local authorities is developing, what improvements and to what extent the government is supporting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-05-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The operation of municipalities and municipalities is extremely important. I think that one of the sectors of success in the change of regime is the municipal system. The municipalities were in a very difficult situation in the period prior to 2010, so the government decided that Parliament had decided to consolidate the municipalities. It took over the loans which the municipalities had devoted a significant part of to improvements, but they were forced to turn some of them into operations. With the new funding system, we have achieved that municipalities are planning a budget of zero cost, are not planning a budget deficit and are able to make improvements on their own initiative. The trend turned in 2016 and the municipal budgets close continuously with a surplus from 2016, so the municipal system closes year after year with a surplus at the end of the budget year. I think that this is also supported by the successful use of the development resources provided by the ministries, including the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the fact that the municipalities are obviously submitting a large number of applications for different types of applications. Every year, the Ministry of Interior offers the opportunity to submit proposals on three major topics, to renovate municipal facilities, to renovate municipal school, kindergarten sports facilities, and to provide the most necessary or preferred support for road, sidewalk and bridge renovation. Indeed, the cost, the opportunity, the framework continued to increase. In the first round of this year we were able to provide HUF 5 billion and then another HUF 3 billion for these developments. Of course, we want to continue this programme. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-201	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-05-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answers are reassuring and coincide with the experience, which can be seen in my constituency, for example, that in Érden, Tárnok, Diósdon, Saltkút kindergartens, cradles were built, road constructions improved, although more resources were needed, and kitchen facilities were also developed. I think that this also shows that we are not only talking about these issues, but that we are working with the help of the local authorities to improve the living conditions of families and the citizens living there. I must add that the situation you have said is even better, because the Ministry of Finance, for example, for such developments as the county of Pest as the central region, since they cannot benefit from EU funding, provides a further framework of funds to the municipalities, and receives applications to improve living conditions through successful tendering. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-05-204	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the government has listened to the requests of the representatives of Pest county and the municipalities of Pest county, and to eliminate the disadvantage that clearly affected Pest county due to the relative development of the central region, it has indeed provided HUF 80 billion from domestic sources and from the budgetary framework not only as a municipal tender facility, but it has also granted the possibility to apply to existing companies in the county, as well as to other organisations and civil society organisations. Thus, in practically all the circle from which the Pest county settlements, the people working in the settlements, businesses have been left out of the European Union tender system, it has been partially replaced by the government from domestic sources, helping Pest County to catch up with the surrounding counties and to approach the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-05-205	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Will the agreement on CEU be signed? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr László Trócsányi Minister of Justice to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the person of the responder, or personally...
u2018-11-05-206	Mr. President, I accept.
u2018-11-05-207	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-05-208	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In April this year, the government sent a delegation to New York: László Palkovics, Kristóf Altusz and Ferenc Kumin, who graduated from CEU. When they were on this trip, they came home and said that everything was okay, it looks like a draft agreement could be made, which the government would most likely sign. Kristóf Altusz has said this several times. This draft agreement was concluded between the State of New York and the Hungarian Government, and its wording has been made. Despite the fact that the CEU conditions, which you, in my opinion, raised in a conceptual suit, have been fulfilled, the contract with Bard College has been concluded, two types of training have been launched, and now there is a building, however anachronistically you call it a tulip. This item is intended to record the total amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation and any other revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. By the way, when online training can be done anywhere in the world, I even consider it a little retrograde. In any case, Michael Ignatieff has made it clear that the situation of the institution is now so uncertain that you have given yourselves a hard time that if you do not sign the contract by 1 December, you will have to take your American accredited training to Vienna, which would be a great loss of blood for our entire country and for the whole scientific community. Vice-Rector Zsolt Enyedi has also made clear what Mr Palkovics is constantly saying that the CEU and the Central European University can be separated: this cannot be done without at the expense of the institution. I would like to ask Minister, on what basis do you think that training at Bard College has not started, while CEU leaders claim and can prove that the training has started. On what basis do you think that the CEU and the Central European University could be separated without compromising the existence of the institution? What makes you think that if the Education Office is to be entrusted with the negotiation, then the international and domestic public will not continue to deal with this as a political matter? Thank you.
u2018-11-05-209	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Justice László Trocsányi. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2018-11-05-210	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you very much for asking. I think it is an important issue. I especially think so for my part, because I'm also a university teacher. With the University of Senghor, Sciences Po Lille, the University of Szeged has worked together under extremely well-ordered conditions and can issue a double degree, everything is organized and best. [[14.50]] So this is a very sensitive issue. I would like to say that the establishment of foreign higher education institutions is based on national legislation in all countries, and it is extraordinary, if I may say, to pay close attention to the conditions under which people can settle in a given country. There are many American universities operating in the world of American University of Paris, American University of Beirut, I watched them. These are all single-minded, non-double-identifiable universities in Paris, Beirut, and with a degree of French law there, they can do whatever they want in America. There's a system to this. However, the university owned directly or indirectly by Mr Soros has a dual identity. You can't really touch which identity we're talking about. The Central European University is organized in Hungary, its accreditation is ensured. However, there are a number of accreditations that are in America, and all, if I may say so, are built on Hungarian courses, with Hungarian teachers and American accreditation, which was not actually verified by anyone. It doesn't matter. I wouldn't agree to that. I would like to point out that this university, we must add, is exposed to a number of uncertain situations. Think of the proceedings before the Court of Luxembourg, consider the procedure suspended by the Constitutional Court; there are a number of legal issues which we still have to discuss. So I think there is no reason for panicking at the moment, because in the case of the Soros University, people are also going to the university today, doing the trainings, seeing no conflict of any kind. I have to add that the Hungarian government doesn't like being blackmailed, so they put a position there that please, so many deadlines, and then there's... there's no such thing in the world! So there could be negotiations, of course. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We don't really have any actual information about Bard College. I think that is a premature question at the moment. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-05-211	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman, please.
u2018-11-05-212	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The only thing about identity is that there are quite a lot of foreign institutions that have accreditation in Hungary. I don't think there's anything wrong with their identity. Since there is no identity problem here, it is a purely political concept issue, it is a political persecution. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] Because this university was already under attack when your colleagues, your Fidesz partymates and, by the way, the members of the government went there. He's fulfilled all the conditions. By the way, you are not questioning me, a socialist Member, but the New York State Education Office, the entire Trump Administration, the new Ambassador sent here by Trump, who also makes the same arguments. You must understand that by means of power you cannot improve the quality of a sphere, by means of power you cannot improve science... It can be banned, but what Palkovic says will not be better, that Hungarian higher education will be better if there is no university of uncertain identity here! Please respond in return when you intend to sign the CEU's papers that have otherwise all the conditions. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-213	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-214	In these perspectives, what I criticize and what I don't criticize, I like to tell you the facts. You have to look at the accreditation documents, dear congresswoman, which are accredited by the state of New York, of course. It should also be added that there are excellent Hungarian higher education institutions among the Hungarian higher education institutions, which win major positions in the ranking, including the University of Szeged, where I belong. However, the agreement with Bard College is obviously a welcome thing, but it must be added: we do not have any information about the practical experience of this. If the conditions are met, these issues may be discussed. But I would like to say that in this very uncertain situation, can you make a suggestion? If you wanted to conclude a sales contract, you'd want to buy a property, and a lawyer would say there's a lot of legal uncertainty in this because there's a procedure in two courts, would you buy that property or not buy it? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You caused the uncertainty! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-05-215	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 2:54 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Before we get to the debate on the issues after the agenda, Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked for a point of order. I'm asking you, personal involvement? [[Márta Demeter nodds.]] Yeah. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame, please.
u2018-11-05-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[To István Németh Szilárd, who was about to leave the Chamber:]] Now I don't know if Szilárd Németh will leave the room again, or if he will wait for my reaction due to personal involvement. So you can clearly see that now that you've been back again, you've had a daily Demeter. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition representatives.]] I think, instead of the political theater you're playing, maybe you should start working after eight years. I think you should start steering this country now. Mr Secretary, I would like to continue to ask you, and I look forward to your reply, now for weeks, when you will deal with the very serious and real national security risks that your government has created. So I'm still waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-05-217	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now that we are over the point of order, we will continue our work, and we will get to the discussion of the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech with the title 3 "The message of the countryside." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-05-218	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In my post-day series, I am trying here to gain insight from the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian agricultural house into news about which, if we follow only government media, we may not be able to see or receive the full reality. We can read a few weeks ago that we are facing a brutal shortage of firewood, and prices are rising dramatically. I may not have to stress a lot here that several representatives of the Jobbik faction have said for several years that this is going to be a serious problem and that we have just reached the top. Moreover, this problem is particularly affecting those who live in poorer areas or live in households where the possibility of heating gas may not have been granted for various reasons. I understand that you now have a concept that the discrediting of forests that are still under state control is an important political goal, since this may be a way of preparing privatisation, but beyond the fact that we are actually condemning it, it would be good if the majority of the population did not suffer this condition. If it is rural development, then an interesting story has also come to light about the story of the town from Castle to Castle, where a bicycle route between the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd and the Festetics Castle in Keszthely has been set up, which is 126 kilometers of scam. I too had the opportunity to take a personal look at some stages of this bike ride, where in many cases there is not even asphalt, and with potholes, serious puddles, difficulties along the main road, those who still take the liberty of trying the bike ride announced under this program in practice. In this regard, I believe that a serious investigation is also worth examining, as it is also about the very worrying use of European Union funds. It was also recent news, although this information is not so current in my area, at least not up-to-date, since it has been a year since Indian migrant workers appeared in agriculture. This also concerns my constituency and the neighbourhood. Most of all, it is still typical of the dairy farms, but the Indian labour force appeared elsewhere in the sector and even outside agriculture, on which I would just like to say that it is not surprising, because, let's say, we have just recently read that the Romanian minimum wage also catches up with Hungary. Therefore, it is not surprising to hear that, in practice, there is already a need to recruit workers from Asia into the labour-intensive sectors of agriculture. But this year could not have passed without scandals if the different fruits were to be taken into consideration, the melon, the cherry, the grape, and even the honey were to experience critical periods. I have been here in Parliament since 2010, and I have been able to draw attention to the problems of these sectors since then. Since then, we have been getting the answers that we do not need to worry, that such solutions are in progress, and we will not have to talk about this from next year. Even in 2018, I was able to list almost all the fruit produced in more serious areas in Hungary, and we are dealing with the same problems as we did years ago. [[15.00]] The news also exploded that the Poles in the European Union are the first to sell their poultry meat again in China after avian influenza restrictions. Here is the question: now this is the many similar stories: why is the Hungarian government unable to lobby with sufficient force in the interests of domestic producers so that we can recover such markets, which we have lost without our own faults, as soon as possible? Interestingly, the Poles are almost always the first in Europe and, for some reason, they are the first to regain these markets. There has been a report from Austria that the carrot plant has started, and this is a very important step, as it has some positive impact on our country, as the number of beet plantations in the region will increase mainly along the border, but we must say that the Hungarian food industry is also very behind in this area, although it is a plant that can also bring serious profits to the workers and stakeholders in it. Looks like the problem of Mezőhegyes and the stud estates is slipping to the next week. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-219	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has also applied for an after-the-date speech: "How much longer? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-220	Mr President, Dear House, During today's debate, a number of references were made to how successfully they dealt with the so-called foreign exchange credit problem. I'd like to keep my ratings to myself now, because I've shared them with the wider public a lot of times, but let's talk numbers. This year, in the first quarter of the election year, in fact, evictions could hardly be heard in Hungary during the first four months, obviously before the parliamentary elections Fidesz-KDNP did not want to boost this process, and its strategic partners, Hungarian executives and notaries, were not given the authority to do their over-achievements on a systemic scale as they have since. On the day after the elections, we received news that on the 9th of April and a few days later, they received notices that had been deliberately parked in the previous weeks and months, and that they should speak again since May, about the second quarter, 1355 evictions occurred in Hungary, which, I think, can also be seen as a kind of historical negative record. This is where I would have called off the campaign called the Year of Families in Fidesz-KDNP, and I would have simply eliminated this slogan, led it out of public life, because normal people's normally functioning stomach doesn't buy that they call a year of families where families are thrown out of their properties by thousands. I would like to tell you that now that the eviction moratorium is supposed to be approaching, then the executives have again turned their activities on, and Jobbik's representatives have been invited to numerous eviction events in the last few weeks. Typically, we found cases where an expired phone bill caused the situation that the family house was eventually taken. So it would be appropriate to make some kind of normal legislative amendment not only to accept, accept, initiate the Government of Hungary in order not to allow Hungarian people to take their homes, apartments and real estate acquired by a life's work under reasonable limits. Since there are a large number of qualified lawyers working in the Fidesz-KDNP faction, there are two cases: either as professionals, they do not perceive this problem in any way that is very difficult to imagine, or they do not want to, they simply do not want to go through similar, perfectly reasonable changes. I also have to say that there has been an eviction event where a beneficiary who, according to the papers, is legally allowed to stay there for the rest of his life has been thrown out of the apartment, and I have been to XXIII. In the district, even in cases where they were already trying to recover a debt on the injured lady, they wished to enforce the same claim twice, and it was only because of the large number of active civil rights defenders and the local presence of alternative media that the executioner, as he and his gang looked into the street, thought he would rather stop doing so because it would not end well. However, I do not think that this is the right system of instruments, and I do not think that opposition representatives or civil rights defenders should stand strong in order to protect the masses in Hungary. This would be the job of the Government of Hungary. That is why I call on you to bring in legislation that allows only legal acts over a reasonable amount of money, but do not take anyone's home or house because of a telephone bill. Secondly, I would like to call on you to see that the problem goes beyond you, that you are unable to deal with the problem of eviction, so order the eviction moratorium, as I demand, today. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Pintér, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a post- Agenda address:, It is a difficult past, a glorious future! Let us not forget the treasures of heavy industry. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-222	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This concept is known to all Dunaújvárosi, because for us there is not only economic, but also moral and cultural attachment to the ironworks, the flagship of the Hungarian heavy industry. This is because thousands of residents and Dunaújváros in my district work in the ironworks, making the factory part of our lives and all the ordinary things connected to steel production. We are proud of our heavy industry, and we are also proud of the fact that the complex with thousands of people has become part of our culture and public speaking. I would just like to note in parentheses that, unfortunately, this is just us, because the government still refuses to conclude the strategic partnership agreement, which would ensure the safety of the workers and the development of the factory. Such self - consciousness can pour out, for example, the Szentendres, and they can be proud to have the Skanzen in their city. The Open-air Museum of Ethnography brings great benefits to the city, as it provides continuous visitors and presents the Hungarian ethnography in an unforgettable way. Well, I felt the same way the other day when I was walking in the woods by the ironworks, as a tourist website recently pointed out that there are giants of machines that are all indispensable mementos of the Hungarian heavy industry. It was amazing to see these structures, which have served the development of the district and our heavy industry for many decades. But while one eye was amazed at these giants, my other eye was crying. All these weeds, and these industrial masterpieces, which are also part of our culture, are infiltrated by rust, and are slowly consumed by extinction, even though these machines not only serve the development of the economy, but also guaranteed the development of our region and Dunaújváros for decades. These machines are all part of the history of Dunaújváros and its surroundings, helping our economy to develop, so it is unworthy to forget these industrial historical treasures. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives that the Danubeferr has not only a present but also a glorious past. With the past in mind, like the Skanzen, this ironworks park should be saved with government support so that every Dunaújvárosian can look proudly at it. But in the future, I would also like to urge the strategic partnership agreement, because Dunaújváros has not only a past but also a future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-05-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group, applied for a post- Agenda speech: . He closed another successful year with the title of tourism in Balaton. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Lake Balaton, I think it is worth giving a brief overview of the results and state of tourism, especially in Balaton. Statistical processing is a rather time-consuming work, and only partial results are available, and I think that from these figures and from the trend of these figures you can see the improvement, expansion and growth in the sector. It is estimated that by the end of the year, the increase in domestic tourism may exceed 12 per cent, as well as tourism in general, that in 2017 some EUR 5.5 billion of foreign exchange revenues were generated from international travel, and that the number of people employed directly and indirectly in the tourism sectors represents some 412 thousand people at the moment. [[15.10]] This requires the current government to pay particular attention to the sector. In the light of objectivity, it can also be said that the current civilian government will meet these requirements, it is enough to mention only the latest hotel development proposal, which could renew 700 pensions out of some HUF 80 billion, and 16 hotel developments can be made in the three priority tourist areas, namely Balaton, Sopron and Tokaji, as well as 27 new accommodations across the country. However, the construction of the Kisfaludy programme has not yet been completed, as by 2030 around 300 billion investments can be made through grants, thus an increase of approximately 20 per cent in turnover is expected in renovated accommodation. It is also a joyful fact that in July this year the guest traffic of accommodations increased by about 1.3 percent compared to the same period in the previous year. According to the July 2018 data, the number of nights spent by foreign guests increased by 3.8 percent, while the number of nights spent by domestic guests was similar to the same period of the previous year. If you look at the turnover of commercial accommodations, you can see a gross increase in turnover of 2.3 per cent at current prices. In the first half of 2018, in exactly the first seven months of 2018 the guest traffic of commercial accommodations was 4.3 percent on guest nights, and its gross turnover was 8.6 percent more than in this period of 2017. I think it is also particularly important to mention the positive changes that entrepreneurs have made in the area of Lake Balaton, and they have clearly found a positive welcome in the target audience. It may not be exaggeration to say that the so-called seasonal extension, which has been said for years, has not yet become a reality, but is developing. The people living and working on the shore of Lake Balaton have made it possible for people wishing to relax and relax for more than a month or two in the bathing season. There is a long list of events that are pioneering in this new direction. If we take this autumn only on the basis of the tourist events in the Balaton area, then we can proudly mention the Siófok halfestival, the Balatonlelle-kishegy murcifesti, the Siófok goose days, the Szigliget bass festival or the Tihany garden. Here, it is a municipal, civil society association and I think that there was a need for entrepreneurship. These few examples show only one trend, which is important and valuable, but still not enough to talk about the existence of a system based on a new approach, which forms a Balaton tourism. There is still a lot of work to be done, but it must also be stressed that the direction is encouraging in any way. It is therefore important to point out that Lake Balaton can now be described not only with the trinity of bathing, flame and heck, but also with the growing gastronomic and cultural offer, the development of accommodations in the area of the Hungarian sea can be further stimulated. Here, we would also mention the Beach Development Programme for the development of tourist services in Balaton, supported by the Tourist Agency, which recently allowed 55 municipal beaches in 38 municipalities to be renewed with a HUF 2 billion non-refundable Hungarian grant. With the above-mentioned grants, major improvements could and will also be made in the settlements of the Somogy 4 constituency, which I represent in Balaton. Ladies and gentlemen, I also considered it important to present the positive changes so that I could speak on the subject in the House of the country, because it is extremely important for the national economy, and for the people around Lake Balaton, it is essential that tourism can be a constantly developing and prosperous sector, following the trends of recent years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-05-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László Varga, MSZP Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. Support Miskolc! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of the situation here, after the agenda, that Secretary of State Tuzson is also in the Chamber, and that Secretary General Fó Nagy of Borsodi origin, who is otherwise Borsodi, is also here. This is important, because last week I asked the Prime Minister an immediate question, in which I asked what was the reason for the delay in some of the planned developments in Miskolc in the framework of the programme of the modern cities, although the agreement between Miskolc and the government was not even started three and a half years ago, and on the other hand, contrary to all previous news that Miskolc was starting with good opportunities for a new large investment in the automotive industry, unfortunately it was a shock for the citizens that the BMW finally chose Debrecent, even though Miskolc has very serious traditions in the mechanical industry and, moreover, its technical intellectuals are still very strong, let us not forget about the former university of heavy industrial engineering, the University of Miskolc today, which, I think, also gives us a very serious intellectual back ground in this respect. In short, I think that investment would have been destined for Miskolc, but somehow, big politics did not stand by the government on the side of Miskolc. That is why I asked the Prime Minister to tell me that if such a large-scale development had stood out, a development that, according to some experts, had the support of HUF 30 billion to taxpayers in the coming years, we should not forget that the budget would actually pay the wages for four to five years, if that was the big cost, then why not take this investment to an area where it really would have had a place according to tradition, and it would have had a very serious place in today's situation. I think it's a sin, it's a very serious sin, and in this I asked Prime Minister to tell me what the Miskolc City Administration and the Fidesz Members of Parliament in the region did, who they discussed, how they tried to get the government's attention and to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the importance and seriousness of the issue. I am very sorry that I have not been able to find out whether something has been done at all on the part of the city administration and on the part of the Members. Obviously, I'm biased, subjective, standing up for my hometown. That's what you'll expect from me, and you'll see that from me in the coming years. However, because of what I am telling you today, yesterday there was news I saw in the online media, and I see more and more places that Péter Szijjártó at the handover of a Hungarian trading centre in Shanghai, at an event he said that a Chinese automotive supplier could arrive in Hungary. He was talking about some $110 million in business, and in fact he was saying that there was also a choice of locations in East Hungary. Look, this investment is about a tenth of the BMW's volume. I think that what happened in that regard cannot be solved in this sense, and that frustration, shock, in this sense, is understandable and justified by the Miskolc. However, I would like to draw your attention and hope that I will find a partner in this, too, in the present State Secretarys, if this news is true, and if such a volume of Chinese automotive suppliers will choose Hungary, and this can become a reality in the coming weeks, then do not think of choosing a city in Eastern Hungary other than Miskolc. Don't forget that within the framework of the programme of the modern cities you have promised a thousand hectares of greenfield industrial parks to Miskolc and the region. I still think the area is being settled and other processes are still in progress, although everyone I asked was always at peace in this, then of course I do not understand why the thousand hectares were not suitable for the BMW to settle there, however, if this area is available here, I think that it can be offered with a good heart to potential suppliers or directly to automotive manufacturers. I think it's a question that could partially correct what happened with the BMW. I ask you, all of you, to assist this process, to support Miskolc. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-05-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech:. What did the animals do? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-05-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One measure of human, community, and society's relationship with nature is the relationship we can have with wildlife, animals. [[15.20]] This is primarily a matter of values and ethics, and it seems that we are not doing very well: it does not go away either day or week, so that we do not hear about the cruel destruction, torture, deliberate abuse, inadequate retention, abandonment, poisoning and shooting of animals. One deficiency university thesis revealed that between 2004 and 2011, the number of torture complaints increased tenfold, even though the majority of cases still remain hidden. It seems that a legislation on the protection of animals, which is a great step forward in its own time, is necessary, but it is now not enough to provide a framework for animal protection, there are many issues that should be reflected in other legislation or modified in its current form. In the spirit of the law, a number of lower regulations should be developed, and not least the institutional conditions for enforcement should also be much more effective. I would like to support this with a few examples. For many years it has not been possible to achieve a simple procedure to facilitate a faster return of a live animal that has only temporarily strayed but is sought by its owner. Appropriate detailed rules should be in place to curb the dog and cat-shooting excesses of sports hunters. Finally, the scope of municipal and civil engagement should be clarified, the requirements for lawn-master activities and its professional and financial control rules should be laid down in a uniform manner, ending the unblessed state in which pathological, stray and orphan animals are victims, while profit-oriented entrepreneurs are the winners of a State-funded, malfunctioning system. A lot of people call the current practice a dog business. A legal institution for the prohibition of livestock farming should be introduced, especially because imprisonment is not to be carried out in the majority of cases of animal cruelty, so that a person who is unfit for animal farming is not prevented from committing his sin again. Adoption by animal welfare organisations should be operated as an independent legal institution, taking into account the protection of live animals. The possibility of enforcing environmental, animal protection and civil society organisations with special expertise and, where appropriate, evidence, should be complemented, creating victim status, with all the rights to do so, such as the possibility of complaint against the decision taken in the investigation. These examples were all matured, justified proposals. Based on the initiative of several civil and professional organisations already in the summer of 2016, the LMP sent detailed and legislative proposals to the Minister of Justice in order to promote animal protection legislation, but, as usual, no substantive responses were received to a written question, just by working on the case. A year later, we submitted a legislative amendment package, but even the ruling party refused to accept the series of articles. The large number of protests, including 120 animal protection organisations, and the package of proposals they have drawn up and handed over to the Ministry of Justice, have come to the same step-by-step. What have animals done that even in this case the government is unable to do something right or right? But what can we expect from the government whose Deputy Prime Minister, Zsolt Semjén of KDNP, presided over in the official newspaper of the National Hungarian Hunting Defense Association, Nimrod, had previously published a paper in which hunters were strongly encouraged to torture animals? According to this, use a stray cat or fox whose mouth is secured by duct tape to train the hounds. å No comment. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-05-229	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP-image group, called World Day of the Blind, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-230	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Today I would like to talk about the problems of the blind and the weak-sighted in terms of three specific aspects: on the one hand, on education and on the other hand, on the difficulties of finding a job in the labour market, and on the third time, I would like to draw attention to the maladministration in the financing of the OEP. In 1826 the education of blind children officially began in Hungary, making us one of the first in Europe. In 1912 they started their kindergarten training, and there is currently a special kindergarten and school in Budapest, and there is an institution in the capital and Debrecen. At the same time, the aim of the Hungarian government is, in principle, to teach blind and poorly-sighted children integrated together with other children in the education system. For this, the legal condition is correct, but in significant cases, especially in rural schools, the material condition is not given, teachers are not sufficiently prepared for what this means, and often there are no tangible assets needed to provide integrated education for blind and poorly-sighted children. Furthermore, although it is also welcome that in the last ten years more and more blind young people have graduated, and more and more have graduated, especially at law and teacher's, and the medical masseuse has to be added, which is a very significant employment rate in this demography, the fact is that this professional further education is not supported separately, there is no special significant amount of further education support for the blind and weak-sighted, and thus the educational attainment of the blind and poor-sighted is still below the average. In addition, after the change of regime and the spread of modern technologies, the traditional work for blind and poorly-sighted people, such as those reported by telephone centres or the brushing and broommaker, but instead there was a consensus across governments that it was necessary to provide financial support to employers who employ blind or less-sighted people. These are happening, but the number of protected jobs is much lower where blind and visually impaired people can be placed than there is a need for it. The demand for this is growing, which is a very good thing, but the potential itself is not growing at the same pace, so there are a lot of blind and weak-sighted people, a large number of people who want to be in the labour market, but they can't do that. I would like to go on: a lot of people who lose their sight as adults, either in Budapest, the Institute of World Famous Blinds, or in other regional institutions, receive a lot of training, which is right, such as transport, training for scoring, or other daily life training, but do not receive labour market re-training or re-training on which they could be employed in the labour market. It is said here by almost all the people and associations who have said that the unanimous request of the blind and the weak-sighted is that they have the opportunity not only to make a living on the aid, but also to take a job, because it also gives dignity to the man. I would also like to say that there are a lot of new and expensive technological developments that, although it costs a lot of money on one person, would overall be cheaper at budget level, which would make everyday life easier for blind people and people with poor vision: screen-reading software, digital enlarger, reading television, talking mobile phones. These are expensive for one person, but they would be very cheap for the OEP budget, but there is no normative support for this for OEP. So there are a lot of new tools that OEP does not have no normative support for, and what really wouldn't amount to a great deal of money would, at the same time, make life a lot easier for these people. Here it is simply that OEP is years behind in terms of technological development, for example, in this field of science. I think that these are not party policy issues, and it is in our interest that Hungary be a country where blind and weak-sighted people can live a decent life. So I ask the members of the government to make sure that there is progress in this matter in the future. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group: The betrayal of Pécs-Baranya also came forward after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-232	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. As a live Member in Pécs, I would like to talk about an issue that concerns primarily and directly Pécs and Baranya, but which is far from national. We know that both Pécs and Baranya are experiencing a very serious, extremely deep economic crisis, which has turned into a crisis region since the change of regime, which can be seen as such a linear process. [[15.30]] At the same time, there are two projects that, if implemented, could make the situation of Pécs and Baranya much worse. These two projects, which have been included in the news and plans, with varying intensity since 2011 and 2013, are planned for uranium mining activities at the border with Pécs and the construction of a nuclear cemetery, also near Pécs, approximately 8 kilometers from the city border. We know that the city of Pécs is in a very difficult economic situation, and the city has built the reconstruction of its economic foundations on a sustainability strategy. So it is clear and clear that both projects, the re-opening of the uranium mine and the implementation of the nuclear cemetery, would be in perfect contrast with the interests of the city of Pécs. In this way, in addition to the already clear and extremely serious environmental and health risks, these projects could create a very serious economic challenge and a very serious problem for the region. Let us not forget that, due to the extremely severe environmental degradation of the former uranium mining activity, more than HUF 30 billion had to be spent on regeneration, and this process will continue for an inaccessible period of time, and will continue to consume enormous resources in the future to counterbalance the environmental devastating effects of the old uranium mine. The opening of the new mine would cause almost irreparable environmental damage in the region. Various organisations, citizens and opposition parties who live there have already drawn attention to the dangers of these two projects in a very large number of different ways. With regard to the nuclear cemetery, it is important to remember that it is a project element, an artifact for which there is no definitive example anywhere in the world. Therefore, the storage for the final disposal of high-activity nuclear waste has not been opened anywhere. Not so long ago, in Sweden, in the country that was most in the lead in implementing this project, a court said that the planned technology was not safe. In recent years, the government has made a very clear position on both issues. In 2012, Lászlóné Németh, then Minister for National Development, made it clear that the consent of the population of the region, the population concerned, to the extent that the project is accepted is extremely important for the government. It made it clear that uranium mining would be possible if it was accepted by the population concerned. Orbán personally made a statement in 2012 that obviously, despite the intention of the Pécs, uranium mines cannot be opened. On the other project, in 2015 Prime Minister Viktor Pécsett Orbán came under the programme "Modern Cities" and said that there would be no decision on the nuclear cemetery without the intervention of the Pécs. On the other hand, from September onwards, the process of environmental authorisation of the uranium mine is taking place at the second stage. As for the nuclear cemetery, research is constantly using enormous resources. So, in fact, it can be said that the government, national and local Fidesz politicians have deceived and failed the population of the region on these issues. Not only would they have given the citizens concerned the opportunity to express their views, but they have even taken away the legal possibility of doing so by amending the nuclear law. I have questions, although I obviously don't trust that I'm getting an answer here from the members of the government who are here, but I'm going to ask you these questions anyway for the record. My question is why Fidesz betrayed the people of Pécs and Baranya. Why have the promises previously repeated by the Prime Minister not been fulfilled that the opinion of the people there will matter and that, without their say, decisions on these projects will not be taken without our say? I would like to know what the government's current position is on the issue of re-launching uranium mining. In 2012 there was some kind of agreement with this private research company, and the local and national Fidesz politicians are also positive about the issue of re-launching uranium mining. Finally, I would like to ask you, as a question, when and how Pécs and its region, the population living there, will have the opportunity to express their views on the planned nuclear cemetery. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2018-11-05-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the Democratic Coalition, also spoke after the agenda with the title "Eldorádó" of Ministers: Tragicomedia. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2018-11-05-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many negative records have been broken by the Orbán government: the forint has never been this weak, the petrol price has never been this high, and I could tell you more. The top decision also takes place in the fact that an unprecedented amount of ministerial commissioners and prime ministers are entrusted with the task of outsourcing money-sharing positions and tasks from the government structure. After the change of regime, governments generally employed around 10 Commissioners, the number of government commissioners increased to 12 during the third Orbán government and 91 were already in the previous cycle. The current cabinet's network of commissioners and commissioners is not yet final, but there are already 5 prime ministers, 15 prime ministers and 10 government commissioners. At first sight, to talk only about the latest ones, we do not really see why there is a need for a separate responsibility for the Szeklerland ice rinks, and it is not clear what the Romanian government is doing if everything is paid by Hungarians in the motherland instead of the Romanian government. We do not know whether there will be, for example, separate bowling alleys in Transcarpathia. Before the charges of treason come: of course, it is necessary and important to build ice rinks in Szeklerland, but this would be worth doing when there are rubber gloves, say, here at the CDC, or there is a copier at universities, but there is none. By the way, another ministerial commissioner was appointed in the field of Hungarology. This one, too, became a ministerial commissioner. I, by the way, consider Hungarology extremely important as a doctor of medicine and even as a Hungarian major. The problem is that a politically isolated country that is destroying universities in Hungary will be able to explain to the world with very little efficiency why they should teach the language of a country where democracy is being dismantled. Otherwise, sometimes seeing the extreme appearances of government activity, it's more hungarian than hungarian. The most hilarious is the appointment of the Space Commissioner in a country where 3 million beggars live, and so far 600,000 have left the country in the last eight years. It is particularly sad that even in this, the lady appointed as Space Research Commissioner sees migration. He is a Commissioner for Space Research in a country whose budget has been, to say the least, uncertain, since the deficit has been stagnating around about 120 percent of the planned budget for months. So we can say that this is about like the Hungarian orange, that our enemies did not believe that we would have a commissioner for space exploration, but we did it, and now we wouldn't be in their shoes, because we were able to achieve it. It's true that we have no money, no technology, no real experts. Overall, I have to say that Hungary is currently under the Orbán package, while visual decisions are being made. However, in Hungary, many of the people are waiting for more than 400 Hungarian hospital infections to die in one year, and we would like to say that there is a copier or a copier in universities, if we were not to read this weekend that biological experiments are missing in the social sciences faculty, because there is no money for that. So in many ways, the country is bleeding out. For this reason, however, the Orbán government should primarily apologize and then work in such a way that it actually has some value for Hungarian society. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-05-235	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, Member of the Democratic Coalition, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-05-236	Mr President, In 1867 the settlement brought under the roof of Deák Ferenc was established, and Gyula Andrássy led the Hungarian government which was responsible after 18 years. One of the numerous tasks of the new government was the development of Buda, Óbuda, Pest and, in part, Margaret Island, which had already been built on both sides of the Danube. To this end, the new Prime Minister established the Joint Committee on Construction in Pest-Buda, which developed the future development of the city and the unification as part of this development. As of 1 January 1873, this was also the year XXXVI, 72. by law. The new Budapest, which was formed at that time, became suitable for the implementation of a huge government programme, and there were incredible developments in the city. I've compiled some of these inventory data for myself, and I'd like to share it with you in the public domain of Parliament. After the merger, in 1874 the wheel was handed over, in 1877 the Western Railway Station was opened, in 1884 the Keleti Railway Station was opened. [[15.40]] The construction of the Avenue started on Andrássy's proposal, which was then named after the Prime Minister who proposed it, as we know. They started the Nagykörút, the Opera House was also handed over on Sugárút in 1884; in 1887 the first tram transport started in the country between the Nyugati tér and Király utca. The first underground railway of the continent, the new Ferenc József Bridge, the Műcsarnok, the Fisherman's Bastion, was built in 1896, the Parliament was half-finished, and its completion began in this productive period of government. But I wrote my comment on the launch of the 150-year-old fixed water supply in Pest, which is what I would like to say, since the city recently celebrated this anniversary. However, in my comment, I would like to draw the attention of this House not only to the development of the capital in dualism, but also to an event of 150 years ago, the launch of the fixed water supply in Pest for a period of 5 minutes. The cholera epidemic in 1866 involved more than two and a half thousand victims in Pest, one of which was the lack of fixed water supply. The city assembly therefore decided to establish waterworks at public expense. William Lindley, a renowned English engineer from all over Europe, was invited to prepare the plans, the builder of the Hamburg waterworks, who, due to the small amount of money at his disposal, proposed the establishment of a 9100 cubic meters per day temporary water plant with a natural filtering capacity. In its place, the Flottillen platform was designated as the platform where we are now sitting, the place of Parliament; this was the forming waterworks, and then this became Parliament's building, and in Kőbány it was decided to set up a 10 000 cubic meter storage pool. The machinery and boiler room was here in this area. In April 1868, the construction of a filter shaft and the laying of pipes throughout Nádor Street, a 60 - mile [60 km] long line was built with a 500 mm main power line. I must add that all this work has been accomplished in one year. The tap was opened in 1868, 150 years ago, on December 30th. It was a huge celebration in Budapest, in this city. The first tap was opened to Parliament: it knew 4 bar of pressure, and it went up to about 90 feet. That's what I wanted to remember here. This city has not just any water supply today, it is the only metropolitan city in developed Europe, where there is no need for water restrictions. We welcome those who are working for the city's water supply now and have worked in previous years. Thank you.
u2018-11-05-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 12 November 2018. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
