u2018-10-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting... [[For signal:]] In the meantime, I put the card in, because I'm going to be invalid again. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman Gréczy.
u2018-10-16-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Once again, the Orbán government, KDNP and Fidesz, as usual, are trying to deceive pensioners. Next year's inflation was planned at 2.7 per cent, while all relevant analyses show that it will be well above 3 per cent this year and the trend is rising. Next year, therefore, the increase in pensions, contrary to your promise, will significantly lag behind inflation, in other words, pensions will continue to lose their value next year. In recent years, pension increases have followed average inflation, but you have done a variety of tricks to make pensioners suffer regularly. First and foremost, for pensioners, inflation was almost every year higher than average. In their consumer basket, food, household energy and medicine are significantly more important. Accelerating inflation is mainly driven by an increase in food and energy prices, so that pensioners will suffer more than average inflation. Anyone who's been in the grocery store lately is obviously experiencing horrific prices. I believe that, for example, the price of the walking excavator has fallen, but pensioners buy relatively little of it, and in recent years the rise in food prices, apart from two years, has always exceeded average inflation. In some half of the years, domestic energy prices were also the same. As a result, inflation, according to the consumer basket of pensioners, was usually higher than average, so by not raising pensions accordingly, they actually made the situation of pensioners worse. In fact, the real value of average pensions increased by 16.3 percent between 2010 and 2017, but it should not be forgotten that during the first seven years of the socialist-liberal government, which you consider to be the cause of all problems, the purchasing power of pensions increased by almost twice that, by 30.6 percent during the Gyurcsány government. So it was much better to be retired at the time, and the average would cover it, that since you abolished the pension ceiling, the difference in pensioners' incomes has also increased inexorably. The million-dollar monthly pension is more than 35 times the minimum of 28 500 forints. So last year's average of 115 thousand forints of pensions casts the fact that more than half of pensioners live below the minimum living age. More than half of the pensioners live below the minimum of living! This is Hungary today, your Hungary. According to Eurostat data, 11.7% of elderly Hungarians were at risk of poverty in 2006 and this decreased to 4 percent by 2010 thanks to the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. With your governance, however, it started to grow rapidly again, and last year, more than 9 percent of them were threatened with poverty. And whether we consider the poverty threshold as 40, 50 or 60 per cent of the average income; between 2006 and 2010 the number of pensioners living less than that has fallen rapidly, but with your governance, the trend has turned around, and last year their proportion is again close to or even above the 2006 level. Another problem is that although the Bajnai government temporarily suspended the Swiss indexation, you had the first thing to do to permanently abolish it. So pensioners are also poor in a relative sense. In 2002, the average rate of net earnings was 57 per cent, almost 70 per cent during the Gyurcsány government in 2008, and then decreased slightly as a result of the crisis, and then remained stable for years with minor fluctuations. Since 2015, however, he started to dive. Last year, he barely exceeded 58 percent. While the real value of Hungarian pensions will continue to decline next year, you will give them back a part of the pensioner's pension back as a bonus. And their Propaganda machine will make all of this look like a generous gift from the government, carefully silenced by the fact that you are bound by law, which was adopted by Gordon Bajnai in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, So you're nothing but clever pickpockets, pro-government fellows who steal pensioners when they don't notice, and then buy their gratitude and sympathy from some of the money stolen from them. You may view this as the art of politics, in fact it is a deception, like on the streets of the red, where is the red, where is the red game. It's time to apologize to the pensioners and give them what they really deserve. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-16-2	Thank you, Congressman Gréczy. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2018-10-16-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps the apology should start with the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, honourable Member, starting with the fact that you have taken a monthly pension from Hungarian pensioners, from all Hungarian pensioners, from those who have received an average pension, from those who have received a lower pension, and from those who have received a higher pension above average. One month's pension was taken from all Hungarian pensioners for two reasons: on the one hand, because they had an extremely bad economic policy in Hungary, which led to the collapse of the Hungarian economy and, on the other hand, because they did not take into account the interests of the Hungarian people when they made economic decisions, but expected an order to what the IMF and the World Bank demanded of you, what the European Commission expected of Brussels. What they said: take a month's pension from pensioners, they took it away at that moment. However, you were not elected by the IMF, you were not appointed from Brussels, and you were not sent here by the World Bank, but you were then elected by the Hungarian people, and you should have represented the interests of the Hungarian people, but you were not represented by those who elected you. Not only do I say that you have taken a shameful policy when it comes to poor people and pensioners, but your own left-wing experts have said the same thing about you, because Zsuzsa Ferge said about you: In 2008, Hungary was the only state in crisis, which didn't cross anything, nothing at all, a single match, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There has not been one such country, at least everywhere, extended care, relief, or something else. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. [[8.10]] However, as a journalist of Népszabadság, you explain another article by Zsuzsa Ferge, another text. He said that the words of Zsuzsa Ferge were usually misunderstood when they said that there were four million poor people in Hungary at the time. The article is correctly interpreted, and here comes your journalistic feat of how you can change numbers like jugglers, saying: ", There would be four million poor people if we had to ignore social support, from the child to the family allowance to the pension. In your opinion, pension is therefore a social support that is only necessary to protect people from poverty. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you say only one million. It is true that not quite three million people are below the minimum of living, but they are not living in misery, but are living in a kind of decent poverty. This is where you explain how, under the leadership of your own government, four million people have fallen into poverty, how they have come to the brink of deprivation, and you are, on the other hand, short of the measures of the past period, while you have issued your own certificate of poverty; you have also made a pretty clear statement about your social policy in this newspaper, as well as Zsuzsa Ferge. So you have taken a month's pension from pensioners, 2.2 million people, and, moreover, even the absence of the Pension Insurance Fund has been skyrocketed: your own minister has acknowledged that at least 200 billion forints were missing, in reality 320 billion forints. On the other hand, we introduced 40, which was now available to more than 230,000 women, and after forty years of employment and child rearing, they were able to retire. We have introduced measures to provide pensioners with, for example, a pension premium or other benefits. If you look at when we paid for the pension, you'll only find last year and this year. This year's pension premium amounts to HUF 18,000 in the case of an average pension, but in the event that someone's pension reaches HUF 80,000, the maximum amount will be HUF 18 thousand, which is higher than last year. It is expected that the pensioners will receive it together with the pension in November, and not only pensioners, but also the women who receive 40, those who receive an accident benefit, those who receive disability benefit, will also receive it; the government will provide HUF 41,3 billion. 1.9 million people receive a pension premium because they receive old age benefits and 594 000 receive a simple allowance because they are not elderly pensioners, but receive an allowance similar to this. In 2017, we spent HUF 24 billion on the pension premium and HUF 24 billion on the pension supplement. Here I would reject the assumption from you that pensioners could at any time go wrong: whether inflation is higher or lower than planned, pensioners cannot walk badly, because if it is higher, the difference will be paid as a pension supplement, if it is lower, and if the difference is deemed to have been won by them, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is why the purchasing value of pensions increased by nearly 10 percent. And if we were to use your method of calculation, [[The president's ringing again.]] by 2016, pensioners would have received less than 4090 HUF per month. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman Mellar.
u2018-10-16-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, On this occasion, I would like to say a few words on the subject .Employment Dissemination in the Public Sector. Over the last few days there has been uncertainty and fear among public employees, as there has been a semi-official announcement in several forums of significant cuts in staff in the public sector, but it is not possible to know exactly how many people will be released, from which sector and on what basis this will happen. The government has set a double objective and would like to take down two birds with one stone: one would be to reduce public spending by reducing the number of public employees, and the other would be to give some help to the competition sector, and in the competitive sphere, the shortage of staff could be mitigated by this measure. Unfortunately, however, because of the lack of preparation and preparation of the project, it seems that none of the goals will be met, as the government seems to have gotten on the horse badly for the first purpose, because this should not be started or started with a reduction in numbers and with the aim, but rather with a clear vision, a clear concept of what state, what kind of state apparatus we would like to have: a little, a lot, what kind of bureaucracy would be acceptable, what kind of centralization or decentralisation should be. And what happens to the issue of electronic governance that has been promised for a long time? So what we need here is a comprehensive reform, a reform concept, which will have or could have the effect of releasing a number of people from here. Without this, it will obviously happen, because there is already a significant shortage of staff in the public sector in a number of areas, too, that if there are further reductions, on the basis of such lawnmower principle, this will result in tensions and shortages in care being much stronger than before, and sooner or later will force the need to increase numbers again. Therefore, this solution cannot in any way be permanent, at most temporary. In terms of the number of employees in the competition sphere, I think it is quite clear that people made redundant from the public apparatus cannot be employed directly in the competition sector, there is a need for at least one or two years of re-training, and Hungary is currently not prepared for this major re-training programme, and adult education and actual re-training programmes are still very early today. In Western countries, it can be seen that there is a period of one or two years if this whole thing is successful. However, it is possible that all of this might actually be a cover story, namely that the government would like to go through the privatisation of education and health, with great forces and a large scale, and would like to do so during this downsizing. No misunderstanding, I do not object to privatisation in these two sectors, I think that there is a justification for this, but do not forget that economics is known for the fact that in these two sectors we are talking about private goods guaranteed in the Community, which means that there are significant external effects here, i.e. there are positive effects, so the possibility of fairness and equal opportunities should be maintained. [[8.20]] In other words, a transformation could or should be carried out here in which privatisation would not violate these two principles. However, I think that there is a great need to have a professional debate, a professional consensus, or a social consensus on this whole issue, so that major systemic changes can be made in these two systems. In the absence of these, if you do not want to carry out these debates, the project of the Déva Castle will continue, according to which what one government does from morning to evening, will be broken down by the other government from evening to morning. If there was a consensus, it would be possible to create a programme that would be sustainable for up to 15-20 years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-16-6	Thank you, Congressman Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond.
u2018-10-16-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Member mentioned differences in the perception of the state in his speech. That is true, there are differences in our perception of the state. What you have brought up here is the manifestation of the neoliberal concept of state before 2010, which considers health care, education and the functioning of the state to be a market at all. That's what the congressman said. In your view, these areas are all areas where the market should prevail. This was also the state concept of the socialist-free democrat government before 2010: privatisation, increasing the role of the market in the operation of the state, outsourcing of public services, so-called management contracts, various forms of privateisation. It was all about forcing the operation of the public administration into a marginal role, the emptying of the centre and the state as an ethos, as an important entity, to completely decommission and eliminate it. This was the basis for the neoliberal concept before 2010, which you have brought forward in this speech. On the other hand, we really think differently. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the problem you raised in your speech is not just a problem in autumn 2018. We need to look at what has happened in the Hungarian administration system since 2010. We believe that the basic values of public administration must be restored. The principles of web bureaucracy, bureaucracy in a good sense must be restored: neutrality, civil society ethos, the principle of responsibility, the requirement of accountability. On the other hand, the pre-2010 system, of which you have smuggled your various stretches back into your speech, has only used the state and used the administration to create the conditions for exercising power and to enable the entire system to possess power. Public administration was characterised by inertia, overgrowth, corruption and instrumental closure. On the other hand, after 2010, we have put the state on a new footing. We have renewed the level of central administration, we have renewed the level of territorial administration, we have built a single territorial administration system, we have integrated the fragmented more precisely: the background institutional system fragmented by the previous operational model, we have set up district offices and government offices, we have set up government windows, because this post-2010 approach includes the need for the state to serve the interests of citizens. The state is not to serve the interests of politicians, but to serve the interests of citizens. In Hungary, the conditions for a one-stop shop and efficient administrative administration were not created before 2010, in addition to the fact that the central level removed funds from the lower levels of public administration. So, on the one hand, he made his own system impossible, on the other hand, he developed a system that turned against clients. We turned this system around, that's why we set up district offices, that's why we created government offices, that's why we created government windows, where after the operation more than 14 million administrations take place in one year, mobilized government windows and the rest, and so on. We will continue with the idea of cutting administrative red tape. For more than 120 procedures, we reduced administrative time by 25 percent on average. And what you have mentioned: yes, this system is the last element of the system that I have tried to sketch up here very briefly. We can build a good public administration if the public service workers are well paid. Indeed, if there is a 50 per cent real wage increase in an eight-year period, this real wage increase should include workers at the lower levels of public administration. At the beginning of each cycle, we would like to consider the amount of people needed to carry out public tasks, because each unnecessary bureaucracy is an abuse of taxpayers' time and patience. It's the staff rationalization that's going to be paired up with a wage upgrade. And I hope that, overall, this will lead to a better administration, and certainly better than the completely empty thinking that you brought back before 2010. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. László Varga, representative of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also came forward before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On July 20, the Parliament adopted the T/384. The law on the amendment of certain laws relating to water abstractions, as the common language calls it, the well law, which has not actually been discussed for the first time in recent years by the Parliament. I have already said in the debate that this law should have aligned the interests of water base protection and future generations with that of today's right to healthy drinking water, because let us not forget that the Hungarian state, in an outrageous way, cannot guarantee hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens the right to proper fixed drinking water. In fact, there are very large differences in water prices, as drinking water can be up to three to four times the price of water prices in the capital or larger cities in a small village or village. I have said that this law will not work in this form, and many of the professionals have expressed concerns, including the President of the Republic, who has sent the adopted legislation to prior normal control. Since the end of August, we have known that the law adopted at that time was found to be unconstitutional and unlawful by the Constitutional Court. It has made several findings in this respect and found that the legislation does not comply with the requirement of protection of water bases, threatens to reduce water quality, risks to public health and constitutes a step backwards compared to the level of protection achieved. By the way, Gyula Bándi, Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations, has put forward similar arguments before the Committee on Agriculture. Thus, one aspect, which is important for coordination, was very clear arguments against their submission at the time, and this was confirmed before the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, it is a real and very serious problem, in my view and in our view, that very many people are not getting adequate water. It is a very important problem that many are threatened by punishment or by new financial burdens, many tens of thousands of rural families living under difficult conditions, who, within the framework of the farmhouse, village life form, are also subject to access to healthy drinking water, a small well that is on their property, obviously also satisfying their domestic water requirements, and obviously supplying their homes with it. This is another important aspect which is violated in this respect, as the proposal threatens to be against the fundamental law by the end of the year to impose penalties or very serious costs on tens of thousands of rural families with a difficult fate in connection with such wells previously established without authorisation. [[8.30]] I put an amendment to the previous law, which became against the law. I said that my amendment was an attempt to align the two aspects. You claimed that the amount of water abstraction will be regulated in a government decree on small wells, but obviously this cannot be done. You voted against my amendment, thus threatening tens of thousands of people with fines and yet another very serious burden. This can't stay like this. You have been silent on this issue for weeks, almost two months, and you do not know what specific presentation you intend to make to respond to the observations of the Constitutional Court, what you are bringing before the House. The situation is very clear: the families concerned must be reassured by 31 December and legislation should be put in place, even the Water Management Act, which meets the requirements of water base protection. That is why, first of all, we demand that the moratorium on authorisation be extended. Don't threaten the horror of punishment, another burden on tens of thousands of families with a difficult fate. On the other hand, immediately consult with the opposition and all professionals about what legislation will be tabled, which will solve the issues of water base protection in the long term. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will answer.
u2018-10-16-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have very interestingly summarized this problem from your point of view. You are trying to scare people with a lot of untruths, honourable Member. First of all, I reject you when you claim that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary do not have access to healthy drinking water. You don't have any measurement, no statistics, no knowledge of it, because you can't. 98 percent of people living in Hungary have access to healthy drinking water, in the remaining cases it is necessary to provide local authorities with individual solutions and to provide healthy drinking water. You cannot give an example in Hungary in recent years when a lack of healthy drinking water would have caused infection or problems that would have caused public health or any problems in a settlement. That's part of it. The other part is the wells. Let's coordinate with the opposition: it sounds very good, especially from your mouth. Honourable Member, the problem of wells did not arise this year, nor last year, in Hungary, the wells have been prepared virtually for time indefinite without authorisation, even when there was legislation for this to be announced, even when there was legislation to control them. Somehow they forgot to deal with it at the time. At the time it was not important to protect the drinking water base, then it was not important how people got healthy drinking water. Yes, this deadline has arrived, and the government has started to examine how to find a solution to ensure the survival of drinking water wells and groundwater wells, so that, by the way, households and property owners who have this type of water collection are not disproportionately burdened. However, once again, there was an obligation to allow them for a very long time, and then there was a time when all kinds of authorizations, registrations, and unannounced completion of these wells were possible. We will make the necessary legislative amendment and look for the possibility that we really do not have to pay unrealisticly high technical fees for existing water collection works. Because let's just say that we let go of the licensing procedure fees, you don't have to pay for them, but it's an exciting question of how an existing well, even tens of years old, can be found that it's passed the waterproofing layer, that the well endangers the drinking water base. It is very difficult to establish this without real measurements being made. So if, on the one hand, the requirement to guarantee that each of the existing wells is in such a state that it does not endanger the drinking water base, that it only removes it from surface water, that it does not pass the waterproofing layer, it requires a knowledge of technical parameters. But there's a price to pay. Obviously, the owners don't want to pay for it at all. Therefore, we need to find a solution that settles the current wells, and we can determine, where they are geographically, physically, where the owners declare that all the risks and knowledge of the well are being taken on their own, and obviously, for the water collection works to be established from now on, precise regulation is needed on how water collection works can be created. In the case of agriculture, there is, of course, a different situation in the case of water used for production, although it is obviously also important that producers are subject to as little costs as possible. But they do use wells as a means of production for a productive activity. Taking this into account, the regulation that will ensure that utility owners are satisfied, the decision of the Constitutional Court is fulfilled, and it is obviously in our interest to protect the underground drinking water base below Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-12	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. Member Mrs Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda: a lifelong adventure to be a parent! It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-16-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Being a parent is a lifelong adventure. This sentence must be familiar to everyone, as it is written in a short film that is part of the recently launched family-friendly campaign. But what road does it take to become a parent? For some people, if they want to have children, this is a predictable and completely natural process for them. Ma'am, you can't have a child with the sentence, which, if it's said, is a nightmare for couples. Sadly, childless couples are well acquainted with disappointments from month to month, feelings of deep disillusionment, shock caused by medical diagnosis, despair, or even hopeless expectation in an unexplained, stigmatized state. These couples are often left to themselves with the pain and the pity they feel for their environment. But instead of regret, they deserve help, help that is available to all; unbiased understanding, effective physical and spiritual help. Many may not even know that a couple who does not get pregnant in 12 months is barren. Did you know that infertility is a popular disease? That the proportion of barren couples in Hungary is 20-25 percent? Infertility is a test of strength that can strengthen the connection, but the opposite is not excluded. The long-awaited legislative amendments adopted last year would be able to make the various infertility treatments more accessible to others, since the state aid for medicines increased from 70 percent to 90 percent. I remember I went through infertility treatment about 20 years ago, then I paid about 70,000 forints for the injections. That must have put a lot of pressure on the family register. Then, unfortunately, it was ineffective. Even with favourable funding, it is still a burden for many families to bear these costs today, as the cost of travel or accommodation is not only the cost of medicines, but also the cost of accommodation for rural people. In spite of the relief, many report that even today it will cost 500 to 800 thousand forints, by the time the first successful implantation takes place. However, too little is said about another form of childbearing, adoption. I think we need to deal with this a lot more. The path to adoption is not simple, and let's face it, many people view this completely natural process as an alienation, prejudice, almost a freak for adopted children. I think that there should also be short films about adoption, and that will give strength to those who do not dare to take the first step, who fear the unknown, and will also enlighten those who look strangely, searching at the adopted ones and their parents. We have to accept that this is absolutely natural, and we have to have it accepted by society, and we have to introduce it to the children. We carry our children not in our womb, not in our hearts, but in our hearts. [[8.40]] There's a very good sentence I found the other day. Adoption is not about finding a child for families, but about finding a family for children. Children's interests are extremely important. Help them to grow up in a family, to have real mothers and fathers, not to wander from foster parents to foster parents, but to have everlasting families that provide them with security. Do you know how many questions an adopted child puts, especially when adopted at an older age? that he expects confirmation more often, that he wants to hear that he is loved unconditionally, and that he is terrified that he will be taken back. That is why, Mr Secretary, I have prepared the professional proposals. In consultation with professional organizations and parents, only the final touches await. I hope I will have the opportunity to continue to prepare. This package of proposals contains not only a legislative proposal, but also other proposals for action. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-10-16-14	Thank you, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-16-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I really appreciate your input. I think people would trust Parliament more if we had discussions like this here. You have talked about many things, both in terms of fertility management and adoption. Allow me to add one or two more things to this. I think the goals are the same for all reasonable people, because we help everyone who wants to have children, and those who have a biological barrier to this need extra help. On the one hand, it is also important that the finding of infertility in the Hungarian health insurance system is free of charge. This is not good news when someone is confronted with it, but it is not necessary to pay for it, but it is fully part of public care. You have also indicated that we have expanded the possibilities of artificial insemination. The previous regulation was based on the mother. One mother could have had five public-funded cycles, five public-funded interventions. We have now translated the logic of this into the child. For the birth of the first child, the state finances five cycles, four or four additional public-funded cycles for the birth of further children. These numbers, because from the number of other treatments, they usually come together from so many treatments, even more difficult, in more complicated cases, a successful insemination and a child can be born. Not only did we increase the available resources here when we widened the number of public-funded cycles, but you also said that sometimes travelling to another city is a problem. For this reason, the government has already provided a total of more than HUF 5 billion in support to various clinics and hospitals in order to build their own capacity, buy machinery and equipment that are needed, and obviously hire colleagues who can also perform these interventions. The result of these two measures is therefore the increase in the number of interventions financed and the acquisition and support of the various instruments, tools and instruments, that the IVF capacity in Hungary, i.e. the capacity of the flask baby, is doubled, and the area of these improvements is both the institutional system of public health, the state itself provides them, and can be used by non-private service providers. You referred to an increase in drug support. The rate of aid has increased from 70% to 90% for those in public-funded care, so now it is only 10 percent to pay for medicines; and the government has tried not only to highlight the medical part of this, but also to promote natural conception, to make NaPro and other methods available to families who want to have children as much as possible. For this reason, we offer twice a HUF 100 million grant to try naturally, without medical intervention, either on the basis of man's biological knowledge or by breaking down spiritual barriers, because this can be extremely important here, and also try to help young couples. So that's what we've been trying to expand in the flask program. At the adoption: you know that the introduction of the adoptive legal institution in 2011 can be used even at the age of 3 years. The rights to knowledge of origin have been extended. From 2011 onwards, the legal regulations for regular contacts as a definition have become clear, although I think there will be a further proposal for this in your proposal, because it can be further improved. Twenty designated guardianships dealt with the adoption of adoption from 1 January 13, precisely so that the case law would be more uniform, and from 14 we introduced the institution of child protection guardianship, which is also responsible for the fulfilment of the conditions for adoption. It is also important that the preliminary examination of the chances of adoption is now much more extensive; even in the case of open adoption, it is precisely to put children in the right place. The new Ptk. has also made a number of amendments to both the preparation of open adoption and the follow-up of adoption, in relation to personal advice. We also tried to make adoption courses more thorough. You said how many specialties this life situation has. It's not 21 hours, it's 40 hours of this extended course. Thanks to these, the number of adoptions increased by 36 percent between 2010-17. At the same time, I fully agree with you that we must make all the amendments here, whether in the field of artificial insemination, natural conception or adoption, so that there are as many happy Hungarian families as possible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And as many children as possible can be adopted into a loving family. So I look forward to your suggestions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-16	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda, entitled The 170th Anniversary of the Székely National Assembly in Kűjtfalvi. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring of 1848 the best of Hungarian reform created a modern Hungary, led by a government responsible for parliament from the Order State, guaranteeing civil liberties and equality of rights, setting an example for Europe and the world. In a decade-long struggle to shake down feudalism, our nation was able to succeed against the Habsburg Reign, relying on its own strength. However, the fruits of the success of Széchenyi, Eötvös or Deák were not only enjoyed by the Hungarians, but by all the people of the Carpathian Basin. However, the Viennese court was interested in restoring the unqualified absolutism of its rulers, so by using false passwords, the principle of the ancient, divide and conquer, it contrasted the Hungarians with the nationalities of the Carpathian Basin. With this, the bloody, devastating and ever-defining civil war has been created since then, especially in the mixed ethnic compositions of Southern Hungary and Transylvania. In September, Croat Jellasics has already dealt directly with the capital and the army of the Hungarian legal government working there. The Romanians in Transylvania, who were under the influence of the radically anti-Hungarian leaders and popes, soon covered the land of Transylvania with flames and blood, burning down the Hungarian villages and cities for dozens and killing thousands of the defenseless Hungarian population. The exploding Romanian uprising, like the Saxons of Transylvania, tied its fate to the Viennese Court, threatened the government fighting with Jellasic, and thus created a civil Hungary in the spring of 48. Dear Parliament, In this desperate situation, exactly 170 years ago, on 16 October 1848, László Berzenczey came to the call of the Szeklerland government commissioner László 60,000 Székely in Clayfalva, seeking a solution to the brotherly restoration of peace and to protect the royal throne and the country's silence. On the first day, the assembly announced its peaceful attitude to all the inhabitants of Transylvania, but it also expects the armed Romanians and Saxons to eliminate all illegal instigations in their bosoms, to treat the instigators with statarialiters, that is to say, to stop the senseless riot, to punish the ringleaders and to restore peace in Transylvania. The next day, the Szekler National Assembly of Clay Walls unanimously took a stand in defence of the laws of April, and began to arm the Romanian people of Transylvania who had been deceived by imperial troops in Transylvania and by Vienna, but with greater cruelty. The sacrifice of the Szeklery not only allowed the military destruction of the war of freedom to continue the work of the otherwise legitimate Parliament and government, but protected the peaceful civilian population of Transylvania against the arbitrary acts and plunders of Austrian soldiers and the Romanian people who joined them. The psychological effects of the decision go far beyond even the significance of the change in direct military forces. The united stand of the Szeklery had a positive effect on all those who fought in battlefields, and on those who helped in the hinterland the cause of the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence, and last but not least the place of the Szeklery in the united Hungarian civilian nation. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On account of the above, I presented this morning a proposal for a resolution in order for the National Assembly to declare the 16th of October, the beginning of the Szekler National Assembly in Clayfalvi as the day of Hungarian-Szekler union. [[8.50]] Of course, the text of my motion is not a final version, and I do not wish to remain alone as rapporteur, and since we have seen many bad examples, we do not want to take on this memorial day. On the contrary, we would like our initiative, in its final form, to be presented jointly by the parliamentary parties. At this round anniversary, the Parliament will discuss an initiative that would make the Szeklers an independent ethnic group, a nationality. We disagree with that, and we think the opposite: we belong together. The Szeklery also proved at the meeting in Clay Wall that in the midst of the greatest threats, ordeals and sufferings, the Szeklery stands unitedly for and sees itself as part of the Hungarian nation. I trust that Parliament will be able to present a similar unity and a true national consensus on the day of Hungarian-Székely joining together. With the sincere intention of finding this consensus, I ask for the Government's support and the accession of Parliament's parties as a national representative. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-18	Thank you, notary Savay. On behalf of the Government, Mr Árpád Potápi State Secretary will respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Just 170 years ago, the Szekler National Assembly of Clay Walls began on this day, which we can respond to and remember because of your question before your agenda. As you have mentioned, between 16-18 October 1848 around 60,000 Szeklers gathered near Clayville, in Clayville, in order to declare their intention that the Szekler people, the Szekler nation, would stand by Hungarianism and stand by Hungary. As you have mentioned, in accordance with 12 points, and by adopting the laws of April which sanctioned it, the EU stuck to 12 points with Transylvania. In addition, all peaceful citizens of Transylvania were called upon to end the lack of peace and restore legal order in Transylvania in support of the Hungarian revolution and freedom. On October 17th, 1848 the news of the attack on Hungarian villages and Hungarian settlements by Romanian people in the partium arrived at the Clay Wall Assembly. In this context, it was decided that, like the Hungarian army, a Szekler army would be set up, and it was immediately decided to set up four brigades, the commander of which was appointed by the Hussar Colonel Sándor Zsombori. This is the subject of historical commemoration, which gives us the opportunity to remember, and accept and support, the stand that the Szekler people, the Szekler nation, have been taking faith in Hungary over the past 1100 years in addition to the Hungarians, I think it has always been there. Today, I think we could not really talk about Hungary if the Szeklers hadn't protected Hungary's eastern borders in the last 1000-1100 years, and not just the eastern borders, because they were there in every war with the Hungarians, and we did the last 1100 years together. I believe that the amendment to the law that is in front of Parliament, which visualizes the Szekler people or the Szeklers as an independent nationality, is a provocation to divide the united Hungarian nation, thus reducing our number in Transylvania or every opportunity in education, culture or political life. We strongly reject these and similar initiatives from the government. I believe that we have proved not only to the Szeklers, not only to the Hungarians of Transylvania, but also to the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin, that we have done a great deal in recent years, in order for the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian identity, the Hungarian education system, the cultural institutional system, and even a political institutional system to be able to remain and strengthen. Today we can say that we are talking about a united Hungarian nation, whether we are talking about the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin or the Hungarians of the Diaspora. I think we are connected by our shared past, by remembering our common ancestors, and by the intention of a common future. I haven't seen him, I don't know him, I think there's a lot of us in Parliament. We need to know this and then we can decide, of course, that we can join him. I can accept the idea for myself as a Szekler. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Árpád Potápi State Secretary. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-16-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, For the sake of the Balliberal opposition alone, I say that I will spend the past eight years, and before that I will also have the past eight years. On 15 October, yesterday, a law has come into force that partially prohibits, tightens up, and from the other side approaches this really very serious and very difficult issue. It is clear that what has happened in recent years is unworthy of man, which is once again the result of the actions of the Balliberian thinkers, since there has been a homeless law that has tightened up the life-style of the public area, but it was still possible to attack it at the time, and as a result, there was a situation, whether people were in the underpasses, in public areas, in filth or in smell. It is unworthy, and I think it is in no way fair that there was only a fraction of the homeless society without medical care, sleep, rest, wash and eating facilities. It is totally unacceptable that, in fact, public areas that are very expensively maintained by a settlement, a city, or built, are very expensively bought by a vehicle, whether it is a tram or any vehicle by a city, whether it is the capital or by larger cities or by rural cities, they look like a public toilet, there is a smell that cannot be tolerated, and very much people cannot use it. Therefore, it was clear what the government and then the large majority of the Parliament accepted, and it was that order must be established in this area on the one hand and humane care on the other, and that, if possible, the continuation should be given to all these people to break out of this life situation either through work or through housing. It is absolutely important to emphasise, and it must be said, that the homeless supply system is ready to perform the tasks, and there are so many places that they can carry out this task. [[9.00]] It should also be said that funding has been completely predictable and sufficient for 8-9 years, which is very important, because without it, it would not really be possible to maintain this care, and the 19 thousand seats available, be it state, municipal, be it ecclesiastical, be it civil organizational maintenance that is there, will certainly help the homeless to live a decent life. The measures taken in recent years have helped prevent homelessness by helping foreign exchange credentials, helping to reduce the rent, which was very important, and helping to create jobs so that as few people lose their jobs first and then become homeless because of financial problems. However, it must be clearly stated that underpasses, public spaces, vehicles are for the community, for the community's everyday life, and they are not for living. In addition, what happened before 2010 must be stated. The grossest and most inhuman thing was that in 2006 the free public bath of the ÁNTSZ was closed by the socialist-liberal administration, only to save 14 million forints, and then 35 percent of the funds were taken for real in one year, not only in this area, but also elsewhere in social areas, which also affected homelessness and homeless people. As a result of poor management, there was an increase in the number of creditors, and foreign exchange lenders were completely pushed in the direction that they could not pay the loans, and as a result they lost their homes. It was also cynical that they wanted to introduce the planned hospital visitation fee to homeless people, so that they could pay, and I have to add that it was also inhuman, as OPNI was shut down, resulting in severe psychiatric injuries on the streets. Dear Parliament, It is clear that the majority of society rightly expects order in public areas, streets, vehicles, but it is also clear, and Christian Democrats also ask that it be humane [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , receive decent care and then return as far as possible to the life from which they came into the homeless life form (the president bells the doorbell. ) by creating jobs, creating homes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-22	Thank you very much, Secretary Soltes. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2018-10-16-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your contribution and for all the aspects you have said about homelessness in relation to helping homeless people. Every person with a good feeling wants them not to be homeless, if no one is in a position to have no place to live, no acquaintance, a friend, anyone with whom they can lay low, and if someone is in such a situation, they should be helped as effectively as possible. Our goal is to help these people, to help them get back to normal life, to really learn, to work and to support themselves, to help them with the psychological trauma, the physical illness that has put them in such a difficult and perhaps unsolvable situation. Over the last 28 years, there have been a wide variety of legal regulations on how to help the homeless, how to help the homeless. At the same time, these 28 years of regulation were not successful, because we could always see homeless people, there was a time when their number decreased, but then there was a decision by the Constitutional Court, and the number of homeless people on the street increased again. That is why it was necessary to amend legislation, because if someone really wants to help these people, he cannot defend or defend the current conditions, because the current conditions that are in place are not good for homeless people, nor are they good for other people, nor can they be kept for the human dignity of the homeless, nor can they be maintained by the public order of what is now, it is inhumane, it is not humane, it is not empathetic to the homeless, because we can see that there are homeless people on the streets, underpasses or on the edge of forests in unworthy circumstances. That's why the government decided to move here to help these people. The problem so far has not been that there has not been enough capacity in the homeless shelters in recent years. Even in the coldest cold, when the red code was released, when the use of homeless shelters was really the most high, there were free capacities in Hungary in homeless hostels. We have created a system in which, when the red code is issued, much more accommodation will be opened for the homeless, not only those night shelters, the 9800 that are still available, not only the 1600 surplus that can be opened during the winter period, but all social institutions will be opened to the homeless at this time, and in addition, there are 7600 day-olds that also serve the purpose of saving their lives. But even when it was coldest, they weren't full, so that wasn't the shortage, that wasn't the problem, it wasn't the obstacle to solving the situation, it wasn't the lack of capacity in recent years, but the fact that homeless people didn't go to homeless shelters in many cases. Everyone can also see by common sense that there is no other way out of homelessness but through homeless shelters. If you don't go to the homeless shelter, how you'll rest, how you'll clean your clothes, how you'll bathe, how you'll eat in a quiet place, how you'll be able to take part in training, how you'll be able to get a job if you don't come from at least one homeless shelter to work. The inevitable way to break out of homelessness is a homeless shelter. You can't break out of homelessness without entering a homeless shelter first and then going on, or at least with very few exceptions in this case. That is why it was important for the government to seize every opportunity and to join forces with everyone from October 15 so that these people in difficulty could reach the homeless shelters and move on from there. And not only is the police responsible for this, and not only is their involvement important in this, but the rescue service has set up a special care group that doesn't help in emergency rescue, so it doesn't help in case of a life-threatening situation, but helps those who, for some physical reason or physical illness, can't enter the homeless shelter. That is why we have created a reserve fund, which is why we support state, church, civil charities, homeless organizations, so that they can get a surplus of access to the homeless shelter, because access to the homeless shelter is the threshold to break out of the homeless situation. We have 19 000 accommodations, we spend 9 billion forints a year, we have created a 300 million reserve fund, now 24 hours, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. during the day, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. night shelters are available. The police, various social and charitable organizations, have the authority to help people get into the homeless shelter and break out of homelessness. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-25	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. The reason for my speech before the agenda is that we recently celebrated the World Postal Day, and because of this Fidesz considers it important to highlight and thank the Hungarian Post and more than 30,000 postal workers for their sacrifice and responsibility here in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament. Dear Parliament, The history of Magyar Posta dates back a long time, since it has served the Hungarian people for more than 150 years, 150 years. Quality work is guaranteed by the experience and tradition of a century and a half, which is a great help in everyday life. The work entrusted to them, the task is carried out by postal workers at a high professional level and effectively, and this is also shown by the fact that in Hungary people trust the postmen most. They trust the postmen, because this work means a close daily human relationship in many places, especially in rural settlements. Dear Parliament, Magyar Posta is one of the oldest national service providers, together with more than 30,000 employees, a prominent and strategic institution of the Government of Hungary, since besides the delivery of letters and mail, it has a significant role and role in the conduct of national consultations, the delivery of retirement pensions for the elderly and the delivery of the Erzsébet vouchers. [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary considers it an important task to appreciate the conscientious activity of postal workers and to support their outstanding performance. In 2017, Magyar Posta concluded a 3-year wage agreement on an average wage increase of 32 per cent, which was carried out in a differentiated way by job. Dear Parliament, In our modernizing world, the Hungarian Post has several challenges to face. With the spread of the Internet and e-mails, classic private correspondence has decreased significantly. As a result of EU legislation, the postal monopoly has been abolished, the market has been liberalised, but the universal postal service is a task for the Member States, which does not apply to competitors. Dear Parliament, In such a regulatory environment, Magyar Posta was able to survive, and even significant improvements were made in the sector. A significant investment has been made in parcel logistics, the capacity of luggage vending machines has been strengthened, and their electric cars have been tested for the first time in large companies. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the representatives of the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, we thank more than 30,000 postal workers here in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you for that. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-26	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-16-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for my fellow Member's speech before the agenda, because there are a number of parts of our lives that belong to our daily lives, and let us admit that we do not sometimes notice the work, the service that large organisations, sometimes tens of thousands of people have been providing for 150 years. Yes, Magyar Posta is a high-profile state company, which provides postal services to 30 thousand employees on the one hand, while also meeting the conditions of the competitive market as a market company. The network covering the whole country, which operates 2700 post offices is unique, and it is also unique that its colleagues, thousands of postmen visit virtually every settlement in the country on foot every day. The company celebrated its 150-year anniversary last year. In the course of a century and a half, it has become a dominant provider, and its trust in its employees is one of the highest in the country. This is shown by the fact that at the World Postal Day events on 9 October, the awardees received some 150 awards, and the postal staff received more professional recognition. The importance of Magyar Posta in the world of the Internet is enormous. Each year, some 600 million letters are delivered by his colleagues, and the number of cheques sent in the mail exceeds 200 million copies per year. Consumer trends show that traditional mail delivery and cheque payments are slowly decreasing, but there has been an increase in the parcel delivery market for many years. Magyar Posta also holds a 35 percent share in the domestic package, the market leader of the courier and express market. Currently, more than 20 million packages and nearly as many international shipments of goods are delivered annually by the postmen. The main challenge for post office is the dynamic growth of e-commerce in recent years. This growth had to be followed by parcel processing and delivery, for which improvements were needed. One of the steps of this is the automatic parcel processing system, which is operated by Magyar Posta from 1 October. With the investment, parcel processing has improved significantly, capacity has increased nearly three times, and automation is our hope to reduce labour shortages. Christmas is coming, and parcel delivery is a big challenge every year before Christmas. This regularly increasing traffic, thanks to postal measures, will continue to run smoothly in recent years and we hope this year as well. Post office supports innovation, its digital developments have been successful so far, let's think about check machines, luggage vending machines or iCheks mobile application. The strategic goal of Magyar Posta is to modernise its classic mail services. The purpose of the postal identification is to allow customers to follow the course of so-called registered letters, registered letters and official documents from dispatch to delivery or receipt. In this project, the post office provides over 8,000 people with mobile delivery equipment, heat printers in larger traffic settlements, and the post offices with signposts. Customers do not sign on paper, but on mobile devices, so the receipt goes directly to the electronic database. One of the most important elements of the development is the release of a paper-based return card. With the introduction of the new system, all deliveryers will deliver their registered mail by electronic means at national level. Thank you once again for your non-scheduled speech and your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-28	Thank you, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. President János Áder sent a transcript of the new appointment of State Secretary to the Parliament. [[Intercom from opposition benches: How many months will it last?]] I would ask Mr István Tiba to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2018-10-16-29	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. Ildikó Horváth was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources on behalf of the Prime Minister on 16 October 2018. Budapest, 15 October 2018 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2018-10-16-30	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1996 CXIII on housing savings banks. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The proposal submitted by Mr Erik Bánki, Mr Fidesz, Member T/2600. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor first to Mr Erik Bánki, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of Fidesz and KDNP's fractions have long been working to support the well-being of Hungarian families, their access to home, the improvement of the level of their livelihood and the care of children. Therefore, since 2010, since the civil government has been operating in Hungary, the elements of the family support system have been constantly expanding, new elements are being created, new grants and expanding programmes are being introduced. [[9.20]] I would like to mention some of these important things to you. Such was the reduction of the burden on families, support for child rearing, introduction of the family tax system, continuous tax reductions, ged extra, nursery, kindergarten and school development, as well as the home creation programme. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And the theft!]] The impact of these family-friendly measures is already felt, and families can already use significant state aid, which leaves them with much more money. That's encouraging, but we know we have a lot to do. It was not by accident that 2018 became the year of families in Hungary. In view of all this, by processing and analysing the lessons learned over the past seven and a half years, we have looked at what support systems are working and how effective Hungary is today. It was concluded that the housing savings fund scheme did not fulfil its expectations. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What?!]] In 1996, even during socialist governance, this element was introduced, whose basic objectives were to encourage the promotion of house savings, thereby improving the situation of housing purchases in Hungary, the housing market; to promote the preservation of the housing stock and to create the conditions for the operation of housing savings in a closed and separate system, within a secure framework, with state aid. However, experience has shown that this type of savings did not serve the purpose of home creation effectively, and more than that, the providers of services and the management of housing savings banks have achieved a significant extra profit in part of the state aid. Since 2010, the four residential savings bank providers have put in their pocket some HUF 60 billion extra profit. Most of this, however, was taken from the Hungarian families that chose these forms of savings savings in the pre-saving housing fund, because we know that based on the analyses that have taken place in the past, it has become clear that a significant contract fee of between HUF 20 thousand and HUF 60 thousand has been applied for, and a far higher current account management fee has been applied for from those Hungarians who have chosen this form of savings. At the same time, compared to the successful operation of the family home discount system, where more than 90 thousand families could use HUF 250 billion in support of the purchase of new-built apartments or used flats, or the construction of new flats or family houses, while all the savings for housing savings were one quarter of what Hungarian families spent specifically on buying homes. Thus, this form of saving or this form of self-care has not fulfilled the expectations attached to it, as the clear position of the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP is that the only goal we can accept is that every Hungarian family can reach home in Hungary within a reasonable time. For taxpayers, this was a very costly form of support, as the government provided HUF 70 billion of state aid for this construction. If we look at the fact that this HUF 70 billion of self-care savings was about three quarters of the total subsidies, but the savings at the housing savings banks were barely one third, then we can see that these figures also support the fact that this construction did not work properly. I would like to stress that the effectiveness and impact of the home creation programme are far greater than the housing savings banks that have used state aid so far, which, indeed, as I have just mentioned, have not led to the purchase of housing in three quarters of the cases. We believe that the CSOK and the home creation programme have proven to be proven over the last few years, as it has helped families to create homes, buy and build new homes more effectively than any other means, which has led to the dynamic growth of housing constructions over the past few years. Over a year more than 30 percent more apartments were used in Hungary, over 6500 new apartments were built in the first half of 2018, and this, as I mentioned earlier, was 30 percent higher than in the same period of 2017. Building permits also show that the dynamics of housing construction can continue in the coming years. We can also see that he was able to contribute much more pro rata time to the Hungarian families' own home, without excessive debt. Nothing can prove this better than the fact that the CSOK has already helped build more than 90,000 families at home. The amendment to the proposed legislation is an initiative for the government to establish state support for housing funds in an emerging system. Therefore, the contracts concluded so far will continue to apply, the tax support system that has worked so far will continue to work, only to the effect that, after the entry into force of the law, the State will no longer grant specific aid to the housing savings bank contracts concluded. Many have raised during yesterday's Commission debate that the system of housing savings banks will cease or that we will abolish the adoption of this bill. That is not true, please, because the system of housing savings can continue to be maintained. All that is happening is that the State withdraws from this form of self-care. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian constantly intervenes.]] Which is perhaps not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, because if you look at the results of these savings in housing savings in the previous years, you will be saddened to see that if state aid was not calculated, there was a zero or loss of wealth management in this area, so apparently there was no incentive for the housing savings banks to make a real profit out of these savings. This, I think, is not sustainable at a later stage, which is why the bill aims to ensure that this system does not work in this form, with these grants, at a later stage. It also occurred to me during yesterday's debate that chaos is expected in the market, and the entire housing savings system will fall into place. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, because once again, the previous contracts are not violated, the state aid will remain at the same level and their exit will continue to be provided with budgetary support. And the fact that the savings system of housing savings banks can survive will depend on whether there are suitable and suitable people working there, who are able to invest in the relevant market conditions, in a given interest rate environment, which can bring a meaningful return, and people think that it is worth continuing to use part of their house savings in such a way of saving. Ladies and Gentlemen, I therefore believe that the bill is an advance in withdrawing State aid from a system that has shown that it is not operating effectively in recent years. In consultation with the government, it is clear that the savings or savings that arise here will continue to be used for family home-building programmes in the next period. A form of this is the CSOK, a possible recast or extension of what the government is already working on. In addition, we expect new programmes to be launched that will also make housing purchases or participation in a home-building programme available to those population groups who have not yet been able to make use of it with sufficient efficiency or inefficiency. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that, with this bill, the scope of pre-care in the area of house savings does not change, but there is a new substantive change in the support of home creation that can support Hungarian families' access to home through a much more efficient and more effective system. I therefore ask you to support this bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-16-32	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to speak. [[9.30]]
u2018-10-16-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, In the housing savings market, as you said, there are four institutions. Two of them have relatively new and smaller portfolios, but two have been participating in the housing savings bank market for decades. In recent years, these market players have achieved HUF 60-70 billion in taxes, of which HUF 30 billion in dividends have been paid. To do so, they called for HUF 240 billion of state aid during this period. From this brief introduction and some figures, it can be seen that a significant part of the state aid for the population was not actually realised by the house savers, but by the housing savings banks and their owners. This cannot be maintained when there is a significantly more effective solution to the transfer of State aid to direct users. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Rogán...!]] For example, Congressman Erik Bánki told us that this is the case. State aid for house savings products did not effectively serve the interests of house savers. Among the state-supported forms of self-care, housing savings banks reported a disproportionately high budgetary requirement. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The private pension fund is also...!]] State aid for LTP payments represents a significant part, more than three-quarters, of state aid for self-care. In sum, this represents HUF 75-80 billion of all self-saving stocks. Compared to this, LTP savings account for only one third of total self-care savings. This fact is also supported by the fact that only 3 percent of the population's financial assets are held in the savings bank. It is also a problem that housing savings banks, taking advantage of the level of State aid, are practically not paying or barely paying interest on deposits, since their product is highly competitive with state aid alone; it is 30 per cent State aid. In my view, however, an institution cannot base its product offered to the general public solely on the fact that the State complements the source, and that the source is used as a sufficient return by the saver, so that after his use of the money there is no longer any need to pay the customers a return. Let us look at the bill at the same time, because then everyone can interpret it and lay down some basic groundwork. As has been said, the housing savings bank system will not be abolished, but only the outflow of State aid will be stopped. For contracts already concluded, all rights and obligations remain intact, run out of the original plans of the Contracting Parties and the contracts and savings are fulfilled. If someone looks around a little bit, one thing can be set. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You will find the OTP immediately!]] that it is not true that the government does not support the purchase of housing and the creation of homes, because it has been able to deliver huge successes for years, the most famous and popular element of this is the CSOK that has already been said. It is therefore possible to use taxpayers' money more efficiently than housing savings banks and to deliver state aid directly, in a more efficient and cheaper way in order to achieve the objectives of the home creation programme. CSOK is more effective than any other tool to help families find homes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Ha-ha-ha-ha!]] So far, over 90,000 families have taken advantage of this opportunity. Dear Parliament, Of course, this does not mean that the state does not want to encourage and support the renovation, expansion of used dwellings. The possibility of public participation in the renewal of used dwellings should be considered in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-10-16-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame.
u2018-10-16-35	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 15 October 2018 is the House Rule 62. CXIII of 1996 on the savings banks of housing was discussed in accordance with the rules applicable to the exceptional procedure. T/2600 on the amendment of Act T/2600. The Committee presented an amendment and a summary report containing 23 votes in favour, 8 negative votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz's economic cabinet reviewed the operation of the housing register and the home creation programme, based on which it concluded that: [[Gergely Harvesto: Economic Cabinet? The political committee has decided? Or what happened?]] that the programme does not fulfil the objective set by the legislator. The operation of the housing register is completely unilateral, they take advantage of state aid, but they themselves do not provide any returns to the contracting citizens after their savings. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You said the same thing about private pension funds!]] Not permissible within the limits of responsible management [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Thieves!]] In this way, companies will benefit from billions of dollars through the use of budgetary resources. It is important to note that the housing savings programme has now become a costly but inefficient construction for the state and taxpayers. While only one-third of all self-care savings are saved in housing savings, three-quarters of all such state aid goes to housing savings banks each year. On the other hand, there is a home-building facility that has been in place since 2015 and whose effectiveness and impact is far above the housing savings banks that have used state aid to date. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liar!]] In view of this, it would be necessary for the government to establish public support for housing funds in an emerging system and instead to devote all resources to the home creation programme. At the same time, the home creation programme should be broadened and extended to help create as many families as possible. It is worth stressing that the current contracts and payments already concluded at the housing savings banks are not affected by the changes to the bill, they operate in accordance with the contracts concluded and the state aid runs until the end of the term. In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill in order to enforce the requirement of responsible management. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-36	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. Two speakers presented the minority opinion in the committee, with a total time frame of 7 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2018-10-16-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One of Fidesz's Cabinets then reviewed something, but it was possible to tell the Hungarian people that they had reviewed something and planned a change yesterday. It can come into force very soon here, even within days, this proposal, which actually eliminates this well-functioning system. It is an outrageously exceptional procedure to force this proposal through, in a dictatorship. This was, in fact, the main thing that all opposition representatives have to say here at yesterday's legislative committee meeting. In fact, the amendment that was discussed by the Legislative Committee, I think it is not worth mentioning, corrects some of the problems of language positioning and codification, but for us it was our first time to say our concerns about the bill. For example, it is outrageous in the general explanation that Hungarian people would have built a swimming pool, a swimming pool or even a sauna. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You do that!]] Yes, it may be your own, but in fact over a million Hungarians have been affected by this construction; it was a construction that provided 30 percent of the state support for their own savings forints. And although it does not really affect contracts already concluded or contracts concluded until the entry into force, the introduction of State aid will make this arrangement virtually impossible in view of the future. [[9.40]] It's not true that it didn't become new real estate, either newly built, or people didn't buy new apartments from it. It is true that this construction often supported self-esteem, including for people who did need it and could not enforce state aid in other constructions. In addition, a lot of people have used this construction for renovation in recent years, which was indeed introduced by the socialist majority of the then Parliament during the Horn government in 96. In connection with renovations, he has also replaced many of the failing energy rationalization applications, as we have seen very few of them in the last 8 years. Thus, many families have reduced their overhead load, many have changed windows or made major renovations. In this sense, the housing savings system is not a competition for the other legs of housing support. This is different, this system is the most widely available leg of the housing support system. The poorest could also reach this system, including those who have not yet taken on a child, have no children yet, but let's say, at the age of 20, they were able to put some aside for a future housing goal. It touched the broadest circles and was most widely used. If you had any concerns about the operation of the system, you should have brought a proposal before this House, it should have been dealt with, not that the system would be destroyed in a dictatorship. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Pintér.
u2018-10-16-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The proposed bill, which is also discriminatory, suspicious and anti-life-threatening, is quite shocking. Why is it discriminatory? You're kicking back into young people who are still trying to get a place at home, wanting to start a life at home. These young people are being chased away from Hungary, who were able to make savings in some way, to put together the savings from their small money together with the subsidies that they could later have made a family in Hungary. You are recommending the CSOK system to these people, who are no longer allowed to use the housing savings fund, the support that has almost nothing to do with this system. But it is also discriminatory, because people who have been able to save money on their own apartments by using the housing savings fund are the single people, those who cannot have children, who do not need a new-built apartment, or who do not have the basic capital to use the CSOK, they are simply excluded from the start of self-living. But he is also a suspect of corruption, because in this accelerated procedure, with which I would like to pass on their current proposal, it is clear that companies pushing Antal Rogán's housing lotteries are cleaning up competition. It is said that companies producing extra profit cannot be given the opportunity with public help. But then do you know what the biggest system with huge extra profit, but with little results, is? This is Hungarian football. But, for example, we can also include the multinationals, to whom they give billions for job creation, with this title, but they do not respect the quota for job creation. Why don't you tax them? Why don't you create another system, make them completely impossible? But here's the bond business, which has created wealthy companies with your help. Why aren't they completely eliminated? And how are they going to spend the money left over to build a house? I think that the housing system that you are putting into it and that will be tried in the future is simply a blabbering system. But we can also say that it is anti-life, because the Hungarian people who worked in these housing savings banks could simply lose their jobs, because they will not be able to work in such a system, they will no longer be able to find jobs in such jobs in the future. They are promoting emigration, as I have just said, and that is why this system is against life, because young people who have had the last straw will no longer have the opportunity to save in this way in the future. It is very important to pay attention to that, and I ask you, if you are going to pass this crazy law-changer here in Parliament today, then make sure that you do not cause market panic, because these companies that have dealt with it so far will not be able to ensure that even the MOB or [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the system to keep them from going bankrupt. It is very important that there is no market panic. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-10-16-40	Thank you, Congressman Pintér. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-41	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Our political community has always had a family-friendly policy. This is no different now, we are concerned about worsening demographic trends, and we are pleased to see trends improve. Fidesz, in cooperation with the government, never leans back on this issue, constantly looking for new tools and incentives to stop negative processes, and that in Hungary there should be not only a burden, but also a blessing, not only to have children, but also to create homes. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Leave them alone!]] We have taken a number of steps to ensure that Hungarian families get to their homes without excessive debt, but we all remember that not all governments had this objective. We had to be saddened to see opposition parties attacking the home creation programme from the beginning. If it were up to the left, it would probably be abolished again, as it has already been done during their governance. We have already taken more measures to ensure that Hungarian families have access to their homes under the most favourable conditions. After, for example, Gyurcsány, the Bajnai government terminated the Socpol in 2009, we restored it in 2012. And while we are at it, we cannot go without saying that during their administration Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Socialists have abolished the housing benefits introduced by the first Orbán Cabinet, they have abolished the state-supported housing loan, they have more than doubled the tax on housing and have chased families into risky foreign currency loans. As a result, in 2010 there were more than one million foreign exchange-credit families in Hungary. Access to a home without excessive debt couldn't even have occurred to him at the time. However, the popularity of the home creation programme remains unbroken. As you may know, after the introduction of the CSOK, there has been an increase in the number of beneficiaries, and a number of facilitations have been introduced that have made access to their own home even more favourable for families. Allow me to give you some numbers. For example, in December 2016, contracts were concluded with a record value of HUF 9.6 billion, and since the introduction of the programme in 2015, it has helped to create more than 90 thousand families, to which the government has so far provided HUF 250 billion in support. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] While you're yelling here, I quote the socialists, as they said at the time: alien life, free of any reality, in its present form, the family home creation discount does not apply to background calculations. However, the figures speak for themselves, and clearly support the fact that the family home-building benefit has contributed significantly to the home creation of families in recent years, unlike the housing savings banks, on which the experience of the last 20 years is that this form of saving does not effectively serve the stated home creation goals. Today, there are far less results in the housing market than in the beginning, what is more, the service providers are gaining significant extra profit in part of the state aid; I note that otherwise, the highest in Europe was 30 percent of the state aid on this scheme. [[9.50]] In view of what has been said, the amendment submitted proposes that, in the case of housing savings contracts concluded after its entry into force, and in the case of an extension of the housing savings contracts already concluded, it should not be eligible for pre-saving State aid. However, it should be pointed out that the contracts already concluded and the payments made so far are not affected by the amendment, in which case the State aid will be until the end of the term. Thus, it can also be said that the State aid scheme will gradually cease to exist, not the house savings, but the state aid, we can say, in an emerging system, and, obviously, during this time, new, hopefully more effective elements of family and housing aid may emerge gradually. Dear fellow Members, We support young people's home through all possible means, and we continue to expand the range of support and opportunities that help young people to get home. We have also implemented the family policy revolution announced in 2010 and we are spending twice as much, or some HUF 2000 billion, on family support in order to make Hungary a family-friendly country where families can receive all possible support for home creation. This is also the purpose of the submitted bill, which will also allow us to use the significant extra profit put into pocket by housing funds for more efficient home-building programmes. With all this in mind, I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-42	Thank you, Congressman Jenő Manninger. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2018-10-16-43	Mr President, Dear House, The proposal itself is outrageous, which has been put before us, but the arguments of its representatives are quite simply scandalous. Excuse me, fellow Members, if you think about this, can you look in the mirror at night and lie still? ! Honestly. Don't answer me, but think about it: there's an advantage, there's a career path, there's the money to stop smiling, it's not funny at all! Can you kick this much into the tens of thousands of young Hungarians? Can you go to bed quietly after this? They're trying, in a perfectly honest way, to present the net lies that you all know in this room are not true. We know that, and you know that you're lying. It is quite clear that the system of housing savings banks so far was not designed for the purpose of the business model to dramatically increase the number of newly built apartments. So do not lie here with your own goals about the whole story in the direction that the original objective here was to create as many new homes as possible, let's say, through an OTP or foundation contract in Hungary! That's a net lie, please. If you're a lawyer in this room, and there's a lot of you, you know very well that when you refer to the CSOK, and you say that instead of the closed house savings contracts, you can hire a CSOK, you're lying again. You know very well that in a net earnings of between 300 and 350 thousand, the majority of the banks concerned simply drive the claimant away with one or more of those excuses. By the way, I support the CSOK, but the CSOK in its present form is typically good for those living in larger cities and those with, say, HUF 10-20 million in reserve or initial capital, and it is good that it is. So there is nothing wrong with this system, it should be extended; we also agree on that. But lying that the activity of the housing savings banks and the pre-emptive savings for housing purposes would be quite amazing. We're also talking about young people and middle-aged people who don't have children yet, but they want to. So, my fellow Members, in the middle of a demographic winter, at such a level, to insinuate life support and opportunities, this is not only barbarity, but a historical sin, which history will call to account for. And I must also say that if someone doesn't have children yet, but they already have self-defense intentions, they have housing goals, they have a dog's duty to support them. Otherwise, it may be legitimate to have a professional debate about whether the 30 percent state foot is many or not much. I'm open to this debate. It is also possible to consider whether the activities of different LTP companies can be maintained in this form or not. I, too, have expressed many criticisms in our professional circles about the way these contracts are being disseminated and how they are trying to persuade people to use them. But all that there are operational problems and things to settle does not mean that the whole system needs to be dozered and a form of support must be abolished, the demographic projection of which can be clearly demonstrated and clearly improves the catastrophic population situation in Hungary. I am therefore amazed that they do not want to deal with operational problems or disturbances, but simply try to eliminate this whole system and put salt in its place. We must also say that, while the government is reviving the future, it is quite rude for me that almost nine years after the regale of the Balliberals, they still point back to those eight years. You have a common historical sin. The home-building disaster that can now be detected is the crime of the Balliberal Governments and the Fidesz-KDNP in common with the Grand Coalition. In 2001, when the spirit was released from the bottle and unilateral contractual amendments were made possible by the lawyers sitting here to know perfectly what I am talking about, then the monster of foreign exchange lending was released from the bottle. Then came the historical crime of governments called Balliberals, allowing this loan to increase to an amazing, unmanageable level. Then came the two successive Fidesz governments, which forinted at the market rate, allowed a record number of evictions in the year of the families, made a deal with the banks, made a deal with the EBRD, the Banking Association, so in a colonial, vassal, slavish way, he made a deal with everyone who was involved in the looting of Hungarian people, and was only willing to take cosmetic steps for the Hungarian people concerned. I must also say that I am well aware of the operation and background of various LTP companies and housing savings companies. I also see that they didn't work perfectly at all. But talking about unfair market profits...! Ladies and gentlemen, you've been on the government for eight years. For eight years, have they left an unfair farming environment in this form? After eight years, do you realize that you have to dooze a form of state aid in two days because you have been unable to complete and correct this system or improve its malfunctions? Well, it's your incompetence that you're proposing. It is precisely the point of this proposal that you are unworthy and unfit to lead Hungary, because you want to expel the young Hungarians concerned from the country, you almost want to contribute to looking elsewhere for prosperity, because you are taking this opportunity away from them. They didn't even open the door so that anyone who wants to extend their housing savings contract could use the state aid in a normal way for the duration of the extension. They don't even care what kind of market chaos they can cause. So if these companies can't suddenly cover what they want out of them right now, after the seizure, I'm not sure that the OBA will be able to fully withstand it, and I'm not sure that any action plan, preparation plan for the Government of Hungary will have to deal with such a market disturbance. And, of course, we could also talk about the fact that some 2,500 people who work in these companies or are involved in this system have now learned that in two days they will lose their lives and livelihoods. I have to say, if we were honest, we are concerned about them, too, that if, say, they had learned about this on January 1st next year, they might have been able to adjust something in their lives. But it is primarily the young Hungarians, the middle-aged Hungarians, who we need to worry about, for everyone who has a home goal, there is one in this country. Right now, you guys are gonna go through this like an elephant in a china shop and create a very simple, unmanageable situation. It's perfectly legitimate that, according to the housing savings agreement, not new apartments have been built mainly, but, let's say, the part that was paid for was the only way that many people could obtain real estate. This may not appear in the statistics as a CSOK new-built apartment, or Mr.Garancsi does not build a residential park and does not sell the new-built apartments to good friends, but we must say that if someone can contribute to the beginning of his life so that he can finance a part of himself, why not support Hungary in this. No misunderstanding, the Hungarian government does not support these people, it is not the opposition, it is about taxpayers' money and a redistribution mechanism, which would be in its interest, its fundamental aim is to support Hungarian reproduction, to slow down the migration spiral, so that the desired children can come into the world. And don't explain to me any of my Fidesz fellow Members about demographic intentions when they dooze on such a form of state aid, because the gap between the number of children that are wanted and the number of children that are actually coming into the world is the largest in all Europe, and the number of living births has continued to decrease at the time of your regency! [[10.00]] I support family tax incentives, I support family-friendly measures, so they don't think that what you're saying is wrong for me. Not at all. I supported sending the military to the fence, supporting a lot of family-friendly steps that we had in common. So I do not at all acknowledge the principle in, say, the European Parliament that the worse it is for us, the better for them. Not at all. Only the fact is that the Hungarian population disaster will be further exacerbated by this step, taking over in two days, causing guaranteed market disturbances, due to the influence of some kind of external lobbying force. You have completely surrendered to lobbyists who have worked you from the outside. What are we talking about? We could also talk about the fact that, while the possibility of state aid for young Hungarians ceases to exist, in Rogán's housing lottery evening, the state aid, which I know remains measurable at a 30 percent level, will not cease at all. Is this proposal relevant, ladies and gentlemen? So the pilot play that you have allowed in this Parliament in a manner that is feasible by the leaders of the consumer groups that have already been banned has 30 percent state support. In the case of young Hungarians, the creation of an independent home, so that they can remain in this country under the difficult conditions created by you, with 150,000 rents, impossible living conditions, world record VAT, and still stay here, and you will kick them. Absolutely pointless, their own electoral camp is violated in at least as serious a way as those who are already abroad. Worse still, they send a message to refugees abroad that it may not make as much sense to come back here as they originally thought. I'm asking you to turn your back on this road. I don't have any illusions after eight parliamentary years. I know very well that some kind of external lobbyist has put you up, swallowed a big one, and you'll look in the mirror at night. The more cowards will give themselves an idea of why this madness is being supported, and the braver will tell you that this rubbish had to be pushed down the throat of the Hungarian Parliament for such purposes. However, I would ask you, if you would say, on the initiative of the Trianon Memorial Year, which was initiated by my distinguished fellow Members, and Viktor Orbán, along with Ferenc Gyurcsány, voted off this initiative, there was one in the fidesz benches who said that he would no longer give his name to this. All I'm asking is that you think about your loneliness for a few seconds, and if you have the courage, don't give your names to this crap. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-44	Thank you, Congressman. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party indicated that in the 30-minute time frame, two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2018-10-16-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to start with a letter from a voter. We have talked about this amendment affecting young people, middle-aged people, but let us not forget, it also affects pensioners. So I'd like to read a letter. The only form of saving is the savings form of the housing savings fund, which allowed the elderly to modernise, renovate and acquire a pensioner's right to rent. Now this opportunity is being deprived of the elderly by the government, even though our options are still limited, in many areas thanks to the government. It's outrageous, it's outrageous, it's genocidal, it's a series of laws against the elderly. As much as we are a burden to the government, we cannot hide alive under the ground by a voter. Dear fellow Members, If we look at the biggest problems in Hungary, we can put first the health crisis, second the fear of living, of poverty, of this crisis, third the housing crisis, then the education and then the corruption crisis. Well, fellow Members, that's a nice list. Let's start this Tuesday. It's just, you know, I have a feeling about déjà vu today. As pro-government politicians and secretary of state spoke, he said that there would be nothing wrong with the savings so far, no fear for financial institutions, no fear for citizens with savings. You know, that's what's been said when private pension savings go down. The same reasons were raised and 3000 billion forints were stolen. We are talking about saving about HUF 1000 billion. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have been listening to President Matolcsy say that for months we have been listening to Mihály Varga, Viktor Orbán and Matolcsy say that another economic crisis is coming, they have found another HUF 1000 billion, which can now be fucking stolen from the Hungarian people. And in the meantime, they tell me there's nothing to be afraid of. Well, dear citizens, we've done it with you once before, we'll come again, we'll steal the next 1000 billion forints! I have a very déjà vu feeling. My fellow Member, Erik Bánki, once had a law, I don't know, remember him, who was here during that debate at the Gambling Act, said an ominous sentence that we had cleared the market. It's the same thing. We're gonna clear the market. Then before Andy Vajna, now before Antal Rogán. Perfect, fellow Members. Just don't think you can do this forever. They refer during the speech to the main aim of improving the demographic situation so that Hungarian citizens and families can obtain housing. Then I'd like to give you some numbers and make sure that I don't get charged with lying, I'm talking about KSH's public records. Between 2003 and 2010, when it was an MSZP government, 279 455 apartments were built. I hope you wrote this number down. Between 2010 and 2018 88 861 new apartments were built. I think they can no longer point back to the success of whose housing or housing support system. We will not argue that Hungarian families should be supported to get a new apartment, so that they can renovate their old apartments or buy apartments. We're gonna need some action to do that. We need the CSOK program. We're not arguing. We have only always said that it is not enough, and we need to expand the forms of support that can help Hungarian young people and Hungarian families to find new homes, help them to buy apartments and help them to renovate their existing apartments. In my next speech, I will also mention how deep housing poverty is in Hungary. Just to say a little bit more numbers, how successful the government has been in the last eight years, this 90,000 family support with the CSOK program is commendable. But if you look at the numbers, today there are 1 756 905 families in Hungary that raise children, 1-2-3-4 or more children. There are 1 027,719 families who live in partnerships or families but do not yet have children. They want to have a baby. And if we add these numbers together, and there are still 483 487 families that raise their children in a partnership, that's a total of 2,743 338 families. 3.2 percent of this is the 90,000 families, 3.2 percent of the families who have access to the CSOK program. I say, it is commendable that 3 percent of the families could do this, I just think that we are not working here in Parliament so that 3 percent of the families can benefit from a home-building discount, but we are sitting here so that 10-20-30-40-50 and every family can benefit from some form of support. We were shocked to see that yesterday morning, when we came to work in Parliament, we were faced with another application for a dirty self-representation, and they claimed that the economic cabinet had discussed and examined it, said Erik Bánki, how to intervene in this form of savings. What if, once in a while, honourable Members, they asked the people concerned, let us say, the Hungarian population? They referred here to the postal relations in the speech before the agenda on how important it is for the postmen to deliver the national consultation. [[10.10]] National consultations may also be held on such important issues. Don't spend so much money on it. A lot of things can be solved on the Internet very cheaply. Ask the stakeholders how they feel about this program. Why don't you ask the professional organizations? You know, the speakers before me have also spoken about it, and I have also talked about the fact that 2500 people's jobs may be at stake in this amendment. Or will they be told, like civil servants, civil servants, who will be put on the street from January 1st to go to surgery and become reserve soldiers? I'm sorry, I thought that after eight years, they would no longer bring such outrageous and disgusting initiatives to Parliament. I don't think a man with a good feeling can accept that, and there's no way to vote for that. I ask you to think about how you will continue to behave in the Hungarian Parliament during this day. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. I just misjudged 30 minutes; that's 15 minutes. But you know that, Congressman Varga, you're an experienced congressman. You have over seven minutes. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There was indeed a sharp debate about this proposal yesterday. I referred to this with regard to the drafting of the minority opinion on the meeting of the Legislative Committee. I find it amazing that such a very long-standing system is abolished and beaten up in such an exceptional procedure. This is unacceptable! It's unacceptable, because you've probably been planning this in this particular cabinet for some time now, making plans for this. Perhaps my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was right about his purpose. He can only guess, of course, but you can hear a lot of things. Antal Rogán's name comes up on this a lot. However, this construction is worth more. The Horn government introduced this design in 96. It was accepted by the then socialist majority. In my opinion, it was a structure that, in addition, operated by political consensus. No one's attacked this since, no one wants to beat it up, no one even wants to change it. You have repeatedly talked about the types of problems surrounding the system of housing savings banks. Maybe some of this is a thorough, real problem. The added value of financial institutions may not have been too high and, in fact, citizens have, of course, concluded these contracts primarily because of this particular 30 per cent state aid. But that's what we have to deal with. Then, after a long evaluation, the situation must be presented in a comprehensive manner and the errors that are in the system must be corrected. For the record, you've had over eight years. So, if you were extra-profiting and talking about all this stuff and that the system wasn't effective, you could have been in Parliament for years to change it. They didn't do that. Yesterday morning, the country's public learned that they were planning something late in the morning, and that this proposal could come into force in a few days. After two committees started discussing this proposal yesterday, today the Parliament will vote on it. I'm sorry, the arguments you're making are not correct. It's the more versatile leg of the housing support system. Several people told me, yes, there are other legs. There's the CSOK, a solution for many, but it's not an exclusive solution. A different kind of action, a different kind of help for family people in Hungary, for families. This scheme could also support the widest circle of age, because, as said in Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's comment, pensioners were able to put aside as much as they could, and this could be complemented by the 30 percent state support, but by the way, young people who had not yet started a family, if they could put aside a little at their first job, could start saving up their future housing goals. Of course, the family members also used this construction, as children could also conclude such a savings bank contract. So even a family with multiple children, if they could do so, could have opened up more of these and thus had a serious role to play in building a new apartment. Of course, most of the time, or in my experience, the Hungarian people have spent these resources on renovations. But what's wrong with that? What is wrong with this when there is almost no possibility, let us say, to participate in energy efficiency tenders, where appropriate, in order to permanently reduce their burden? What other method can you now recommend to the Hungarian people to replace windows in their house? So, a lot of Hungarian people have used this correctly for renovations and enlargements. Nor is it true that it was not for the purchase of new real estate, since it could be used for the purchase of a new apartment, or even for the construction of a new apartment, as well as for borrowings, which meant a great deal to many people in their own right. It's very unworthy of the point in the justification, which is about building a pool and a sauna. What I'd like to say is that anyone who builds these things on his property won't be opening up an apartment savings fund for this. It's such a pesky, cheeky sentence in it, which, I think, describes the nature of the dictatorship, the outrageous nature of the whole thing very well. What they're doing is shocking. By the way, I've seen shock in many of your faces all day yesterday. Perhaps there are some among you who are, say, new Members and meet for the first time with such a situation. But I'd like to tell you that there's no way you're gonna get away with this, that you're gonna say such big things, that you're an extra pro for the crooked financial institutions, and I don't know what else. This meant a very important leg for many hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, Hungarians, in order to achieve their housing goals. We've got a few hours. So I would ask you to reconsider this question. Cancel this motion. In these moments, very serious crowds have now turned to financial institutions, traders, to make use of the option of concluding a house savings contract until the last minute of entry into force. If this is such a terrible construction, then why do people do it? Obviously, it's not that. You're making false arguments. And if they had a problem with the system, it should have been corrected. That's what we should have put forward. In addition to this presentation, nothing on the table of Hungarian families will be put on the table. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-48	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Oh, no!]]
u2018-10-16-49	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr President, Today we can safely say that there's aft, there's brazen theft, and there's this bill. This proposal, according to the Democratic Coalition, is, on the one hand, economically foolish, socially deeply unfair and, in business terms, outrageous and corrupt. Let's start with the economics. You have a problem, Margaret Thatcher described it as socialism's problem is that after a while, other people's money runs out. The economic growth that Hungary has enjoyed in recent years has come primarily from the global economy economy and the influx of EU money. The economy seems to be hitting it. The Congresswoman has spoken of the fact that more and more analysts say that they will not stay at this level permanently, and that European money is increasingly tied to you not stealing these funds. It follows that, since you are not willing to make any concessions in order to reduce transparency and corruption, you can certainly expect less money to come to Hungary later. [[10.20]] So they started to develop the Orbán package, and they started to develop and implement the austerity package, which, according to their custom, takes money from those who are most poor and vulnerable, who most need state aid. This is what the plan for privatisation of higher education, the generalisation of tuition fees, is about the abolition of support for the cafeteria system, and the deterioration of the situation of workers. This is what plans are about to leak that the health system is planning to increase pay benefits and to further withdraw social assistance. We need another target. Private pension money has already been applauded, you have to see where more money is, where more money can be raised, where more money can be squeezed into the state budget. They found another big target, there's the house savings system. You can take the state money out of it and spend it on more stadiums, and in the meantime, the savings can be transferred to the pockets you like. Let us also add that, precisely because of this economic environment, the elimination of this house savings will also cause serious economic damage. Your VAT adventure on the housing market is over, and your friends have built what they wanted to build, and they've put in their pocket the real extra profit, so there will also be a fall in demand, and the investment opportunity will be reduced by reducing EU funds. Now they're taking out this leg, and they're going to continue to aggravate the construction problems, the crisis and the downturn that we're facing. What is the situation in a social sense? Typically, the housing fund was good for people with lower incomes, older people or even young people to start saving money, since relatively small investments could be used to make tangible savings. That's why these forms were popular. This has enabled progress, and it has also played a very important role, for example, in getting young people used to it, educating them to save money and plan ahead. Compared to this, it is very cool that there is a CSOK system, but for Hungarian families it helps about as much access to the apartment as kissing the dead. For some, it is accessible and good for a minority, but unattainable for others. The fact is that, of course, I understand that you are not interested in this, you are not concerned about what will happen to the Hungarian families, how they are renovating their apartments, you are not interested in how pensioners can save you for renovation or even for moving to an elderly home, you are not interested in what happens to the young people, you are not interested in saving them otherwise. Your relatives, friends, business associates have already solved their housing problems, and the rest of you will deal with it the way you can. I have to tell you, this is amazing. Let me offer you one more point, I just remembered. For example, do you know that a large part of the condos have house savings? After all, this is a very good solution for collecting renovation money in this way and getting some support for the task that is very important, by the way. You're gonna take that away, too, this opportunity. Don't think, whether you or the voters, that you're only messing with people who had a house savings fund and wanted to open an account like this. The people in the condominium are also taking a significant sum out of their pockets now. Ladies and gentlemen, Several of my fellow Members have mentioned that I would also like to mention that, of course, they are ruining the lives of those who have worked in this area as well. Most of the young people who have built their ideas for this work, I must tell you, of course, that they will not stand as a volunteer soldier, and they will not necessarily follow the path that you would like to set up for young Hungarians to be workers in a assembly plant, but will go to a country in Europe where they need their work, their creativity, that someone wants to do a job successfully. One of the biggest problems in your system is that you reward those who do it, those who kiss, and those who want to live from work, you punish them. But you don't care. Their home affairs are fine, the business circles close to you will find their calculations, the children will be fine, and what happens to the Hungarian average citizens will be whistled for. But, of course, it's not an end in itself. We've learned that if you're doing something really nasty, you've got business interests behind it, not just political calculations. It is very easy to conclude that the previously announced NOK, by their maiden name or by their fair name, is an apartment lotteries system, which somehow does not want to get pissed off, because there is no fool who would be involved under such conditions, Minister Antal Rogán is a great friend of the settlement policy, when it appeared that that business was over, then he submitted it to Parliament as another business... so it seems that this system is not going well enough. But this is a great opportunity, because there will remain state aid, and it will be possible to shift the savings into this system, if there will be a fool willing to trust you, he will be willing to believe the businesses close to you that this will be a fair system. So that's the goal, the point is, of course, it's going to go on, not a lot of 30 percent state aid if it goes into pockets we're going to assign. If someone wants to run on a business basis in this country, if someone is using a law-made option, then we have heard the extra pro from Erik Bánki. Now, when it gets where you want it to be, it won't be an extra profit, it'll be a profit benefit for the business that you deserve, just like Lőrinc Mészáros, the Orbán family, István Tiborcz, and I can continue this very, very long line. So what we're talking about is you're trying to get a new business for people who are close to you. That's why Erik Bánki tells us that this 60 billion, which, of course, has to be divided into ten years, has a thing for your eyes. Of course he likes it, because it's not for your people, it's for business companies competing on the market who had to work for it. It follows, then, that the legal absurdity that has been established here is that this proposal has been submitted to the Parliament at an emergency, static trial, that a law of this importance will be passed in 24 hours. They avoided the legislation that, no, the government suddenly liked this proposal. So far, it has not occurred to the unfortunates, it is a pity that the Secretary of State Tállai went out, because I would be very excited to ask: was it not known in the planning of the budget that there were houses, that was something new at the time, that they did not notice in the budget that there was such a thing? When the government prepared the foundation law, you didn't consult the Fidesz economic cabinet? This is almost as important a body as the Political Committee was in the previous party state. They didn't talk to him? How did this happen that you were suddenly faced with this problem a few months after the adoption of the budget? How is that possible? ! Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite obvious that this method of adoption of the bill violates even your collected constitutional system and Fundamental Law, violates the principle of legal certainty, violates the provision of adequate preparation time, unlawfully abolishes the possibility of extension for those who otherwise concluded their contract on the condition that they may decide to extend it later. Now I'm telling you, I'm sure there'll be a long lawsuit coming from this, just like it did in the cafeteria vouchers back then. We have also lost it, it has also been paid by Hungarian taxpayers, and not by you, fellow Members. I would ask you to think for a moment of public money, however difficult it may be for you, as if it were your money, as if you were part of the public, as if it were not just about your own business interests. If you really think there is a problem with the housing savings system, then let's start a sensible debate about this, not a fake national consultation for billions, but a real social debate. Ask professionals. Ask the people involved. Ask society, and if there is a need for change, a well-founded, normal bill will be brought before Parliament in a fair and proper manner, and we will argue about it, because then anyone will believe you that this is not just a reduction in budget expenditure, another attic sweep, and not just that you want to channel savings into your friendly pockets. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2018-10-16-50	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-10-16-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Government policy goes clearly and permanently against society, the society from which it has been asked and received authorisation. And, yes, I could now continue my speech by going against him, because the 400 kilopolt wire between Albertirsa and Kecskemét will pass over the heads of the people. [[10.30]] I could continue by saying that you are eliminating or reducing to a large extent public-funded higher education sites, although this is a whole new story, you are making it impossible for people to access housing permanently, and I think it is worth putting this in context. Today, you have managed to create the situation, my fellow Member Bánki, that you have swept off the LMP proposal for the housing fund during the budget negotiations, and you are now making it impossible to save, and what we have seen for a long time is that the housing crisis in this country is continuing to grow. They argue that the current system is wrong and that state aid to housing savings banks must be abolished because it produces extra profits for banks. They say that the reason why the state support for the housing savings system has to be stopped is because they built a Jacuzzi because they built pools or bought a car out of it. I think that you should look inside yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, look inside and see that legislation is at your disposal. They have a two-thirds majority in Parliament, and the government's own legislative options have not yet been discussed. And I think the question here is that these problems arise as a task to be solved, then let them be resolved, as they have been solved in the free cash withdrawal, because the regulation is your responsibility and responsibility, or, as you have solved, for example, in the tightening of the lending regime. I think you have all the tools at your disposal when you think there's a malfunctioning system. But that's not what you're doing, and you're gonna cancel it, and at first, I'm gonna admit it, when I met this proposal yesterday, it didn't even occur to me what it was all about. But I think it is worth going on, because I think that this decision, this bill, does not only make it impossible for young people to get home, but also reduces the possibility of self-care to the extent that is unacceptable in the case of a government or in the case of all governments, but in any case, especially when you lie to people that the year of families is 2018. In the year of families, you make it impossible to start a family, making it impossible for young people to get an apartment. I know, I know the slogan, and I know what they're going to say: that Fidesz is fully committed to supporting access to the apartment. Well, thank you very much. Let me give you an example, because I think that the use of the CSOK can be perfectly demonstrated through this. Imagine a 25 - year - old young person who just got out of college, met his girlfriend, got married, and wanted to start a family, but they do not want to move into their own apartments, they don't want to buy apartments when the third child is on the way, but they want to raise the first child in an apartment. I know it sounds strange, but believe me, fellow Members, it happens. And I think that if you look at it, it is worth seeing that the CSOK, which the state has paid the claimants, has provided a vast majority of HUF 1 million and HUF 400 thousand in support. If you look at the size of this 1 million HUF 400 000 grant when there is a flat of 60 square meters in Budapest between 25 and 30 million HUF, I think that I was able to evaluate Fidesz' support for housing with one sentence. 1 million 400 thousand forints, because I think that you are the only ones in this country who think that the third child is the one who needs his own apartment. I think that the Hungarian National Bank has also talked a lot about the responsible self-care that we rightly try to promote within society, and I think that this self-care, the attitude towards it itself, and the confidence in it, will be destroyed by this bill. Because so far, with state aid, it has been possible to obtain a fair return in this system, because otherwise the low base rate, which, by the way, really stimulates the operation of the economy, results on the other side that the deposit interest rates in this country are practically minus or zero returns, and I think that it is the responsibility of all of us here in this House to operate a system that is in the interest of society, which not only helps those who belong to the top 10 percent of the economy. Believe me, those who build a hot tub and a pool, they don't care about maintaining the housing fund system. I have to continue by saying that if this young family, which I was just talking about, cannot put aside, can not use the CSOK support form you offer, then it is forced to sublet in an environment where the price of the apartment in Budapest is 60 percent of the average salary, together with a little more rent. I think that it is relatively easy to see from this that if you take 60 percent of the salary, 60 percent of a young person's salary, you will not have any savings, and I think that we all have the same goal, and believe me, people on the street have the goal of having their own savings. The current housing stock is ageing, and this support could also be used by the condominiums, as my fellow Member rightly pointed out. Now they are in trouble, and their situation is difficult, and believe me, my fellow Members, that a renovation in a condominium, whether it is a joint area or a facade renovation, will cost the community a serious hundred million dollars. We also have a responsibility towards them, and I think that if this proposal went through, they would not be able to renovate about three quarters of the condominiums, leading to further ageing of the housing stock, and that if any of you had dealt with the social rehabilitation programme that worked from the change of regime to your 2010 government, you would know exactly what kind of problem they would be facing. At the end of this process, it is true that there will be areas in this country that will be able to become serious. I think that if the Hungarian National Bank continues to prefer its programme that raises society's financial awareness, then that we should not reduce these opportunities, but increase them. At least be true to yourself, if I may say so, and I believe that there are no such problems in Fidesz's economic cabinet, I am sure that in Fidesz's economic cabinet, if we look at the participants' bank accounts, everyone has eight figures in their bank accounts. Now, that is not the case for society, my honourable Members, because the vast majority of society needs self-care, needs savings, and in this, the government, Parliament and you, Member Erik Bánki, have a responsibility to do so. I think that, last but not least, we have found out what is really behind this proposal. Yes, Congressman Bánki, we know what this is about: this bill is all about because it doesn't make any sense but to promote the housing lotteries proposed by Antal Rogán, or to reverse this sentence, my fellow Member wants to clean up the competition of the house lotteries. That's what this thing is about. [[10.40]] Because this system was not a lottery draw, it was guaranteed by the state, and I think that when the housing lottery companies belonging to the interests of Antal Rogán and Zoltán Nyéki look at this bill, they are very happy to sit back. And I know that the next thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the speeches by the lead speaker have been spoken, and there is still one, opposition contributions, in which you will not be involved, but as a closing point, to which we cannot respond, because this is the usual scenario, and it will probably be the same as before, even if my fellow Member Tessely has finally read the Blikket and the National Sports and the People's Republic. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now there are two-minute speeches, but I don't see a candidate. [[Interventions from the opposition, among others: Mr President. You missed the Dialogue! You're logged in from eight o'clock!]] Dear Congressman Mellar, It's not in the script here. [[Cseresnyés Péter: You have to press the button for example! Intercoms from the opposition, among other things: politely, because you are banned!]] Mr Tamás Mellar applied for a simple speech, but I give the floor to the speaker for an exception. You have the floor, Congressman Tamás Mellar.
u2018-10-16-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise not to abuse this opportunity, and I will be very, very brief, and I can do so all the more, because my fellow Members have already said many things and I do not want to repeat them. I think that one of the biggest problems of the entire bill is that a relatively long 22-year consensus has now been broken down by Fidesz, because since 1996 this housing saving system has been working well, and I also think it was too late that it was only introduced in 1996. When I had the opportunity to visit the NSZK in 1976, there was a construction there for decades, the essence of which was to encourage house savings, that the state helped this thing with the same amount of 50 percent contribution, and it worked very well, as a result of which very many apartments were built in Germany, and this system has somehow been working there ever since. It has been said here, and I would just like to confirm that it has indeed collected the small savings of the small people, and it is undoubtedly true that they were not essentially devoted to buying a flat or building a new apartment, but to renovations, but let us not forget that the Hungarian housing stock is getting old enough, and therefore these savings are justified. With regard to government criticism, it has been said here that it is being used for renovation and that state aid is very significant, HUF 70 billion/year, and that intermediaries have gained significant profits since 2010 and, in the words of Mr Bánki, a HUF 60 billion representative, they have gained extra profit. I'm saying that these reviews are correct, that's what they are, and I'm understanding. But if these problems were there, couldn't they have been or couldn't have been solved now? Couldn't we reduce the share of state aid or regulate intermediaries in such a way that they don't create extra profit, but just a normal profit? Obviously, it could have been done, so this system could have been improved, and the mistakes that are truly flawed in it could have been eliminated. It would have been possible and possible since 2010, however, the government has not made use of it, and it is now coming up with what an extra profit it has developed since 2010. Then the question arises as to why this liquidation is. Is this 70 billion forints per year missing from the budget? So the budget is that bad? By the way, if I miss it very much, I would suggest that the more than 60 billion issued for state propaganda should be reduced in some way. Or maybe there's something else going on that someone else wants to put their hands on this 800-1000 billion fortune as a handler? I do not want to discuss puzzles about who will be interested in this, but my fellow Members have already named things here before, but this is definitely a question that may arise. Or can we go even further, and does this move mean that they are not just trying to create a change of management, but they want to use this entire amount in a completely different way? And this whole other way of using it could obviously also serve to try to improve the very difficult situation of the budget in some way. In this respect, however, the licence has already been developed, since the downsizing of private pension funds, the technique and technology developed at the time, I think it can and can still work. In fact, this whole procedure was an ambush, which was a complete surprise to me, that this amendment was distributed on the Economic Committee yesterday at 11:2 p.m., and at 11:3 p.m., we voted that we were taking this into consideration, of course, there was absolutely no time to review it, and that we could give a meaningful opinion on this, and then I heard in the news this morning that the Economic Committee had discussed it and accepted it and suggested that it should be accepted, although there was absolutely no discussion, because there was no time to discuss it, because there was no time frame. I am constantly told why I am sitting in Parliament, why I accepted my mandate, because there is no point in any meaningful work here. I usually say, "Yes, I do, I do, I do, I do have a place here to discuss professional questions, but under these circumstances, there is no sound professional debate on such an important issue, if we received the presentation yesterday at 11:2 p.m., and there is no time for the Committee on Economics, which is the highest professional forum, to debate this in substance, and here we have a few minutes to try to say something about it, but we cannot have a professional dialogue here. On this basis, I cannot support and the Dialogue cannot support this bill, and I would like to ask the Government to withdraw, and we will discuss this issue in a normal process, so that there can be a lasting and professionally sound, good position here, so that we can resolve this issue in a reassuring manner for the longer term. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-16-54	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Mellar. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches per faction for one Member and for the first independent Member to address the remaining time frame. I'll give you the floor for two minutes to independent Congresswoman Anett Bősz. [[10.50]]
u2018-10-16-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say a few words about the working method, as many opposition colleagues have already done. It is unacceptable that the idea will be a legislative amendment in a few minutes, then a law in a few hours, and then a regulation in force in a few hours. I find it unacceptable to talk about democracy in this House in 2018 about the fact that the common good is also in debates, and that we need to discuss these legislative amendments in advance, we need to discuss them in advance, my fellow Members, with the profession, with the stakeholders. Unfortunately, we do not see that you have done this, and this is unacceptable in this form. With regard to housing savings banks, I have to say that self-care and responsibility are one of the most important things to learn in this society. With the message you're about to make with the amendment of the rule, the gate will be shut down in front of virtually millions to take care of itself. And I have to say that they argue that the CSOK is a much better construction, since the housing savings banks have only been enriched by state aid, I have to say that you have a very strange interpretation of market regulation. They are used to tighten the reins very tight in cases where they should indeed release market players and do not act with appropriate state regulation when justified. If this is to justify the withdrawal of State aid to housing savings banks, then they simply do not reason well. It would be possible to obtain a simple legislative amendment, which my fellow Member Tamás Melár has already talked about, so that these providers can make normal profits rather than get rich with taxpayers' money. At the same time, young Hungarians are not expected to [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To try to create an apartment without any state aid, forced into the CSOK. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes, DK.
u2018-10-16-57	Thank you very much. I would like to touch very briefly on two more issues that have been raised in the debate. One case concerns how it is used for housing purposes or not for housing purposes. The authors refer to the fact that, in a significant part, these sums were not used for housing purposes, but only you know that the rule has changed. It was you, I think, perhaps, but we may have, but around 2010, changed the rules on house savings, and since then, the user of the house savings must be accounted for for for the use of it for housing purposes. In English: this tightening has already happened, which you are now calling to account for on the house savings. What is more important, however, is the question of extra profit, which many of us here have touched on from a number of different directions. I'd like you to tell us, since you're referring to this, how soon you're going to count as an extra profit, from what percentage. What determines this? What is a market economy where the state decides that a business can't be of greater use than anything else, because then it is extra profit and it has to be interfered with? How is that, fellow Members? If it's Purci Bt. produces the best kebab in Budapest [[Defiance.]] And you can sell an amazing amount of it, and if you can make a significant profit compared to the size of the enterprise, what will happen is that one of our fellow Members will stand up the day after tomorrow and submit a proposal that you cannot make kebabs freely, and that will be interesting from such an immigration point of view, and from this point on only he will be able to produce because he has an extra profit? It should be decided, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a market economy or a wardom-munism, because if it is the latter, then this approach is absolutely fine. Thank you very much. [[Defiance and applause in opposition ranks.]]
u2018-10-16-58	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, Any further speeches may be made within the remaining timeframes and may be monitored on the meeting room table. According to the screen, six people have indicated their intention to speak. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik.
u2018-10-16-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although this proposal affects all Hungarians who want to save money negatively, in the short time at my disposal, I would like to approach this issue more from the point of view of young people. What is the basic situation with regard to young people in Hungary today? We all know that the situation is quite catastrophic in this regard, because many of them are thinking about emigration, many are already working abroad, going there under duress. Compared to this, one would think that a responsible Hungarian government is trying to exercise as many gestures as possible to young people to show that they are important to this country, trying to help them stay home and try to persuade them not to go abroad. What happens, and what does your government, the Fidesz government, do? Just recalling the events of the last few days: they are rocking paying higher education and then abolishing state aid for the housing savings system, which was very important for young people. I have been taking note here, listening to my fellow Members of the Fidesz, of the reasons for which they are putting forward, and I would like to go through them, because it is very clear how hard they are trying to bring things up in order to find some way to justify this inconvenient proposal. It has also been said, for example, that this system should be implemented because it can be used to build a pool or sauna at the end of the term. They may have found one of these on one occasion in a thousand when they spent it on a sauna or a pool, but in a very large percentage, in a very large part, people actually spent it on housing purposes, renovating and modernising. If that's what's bothering you that you're spending on a pool or a sauna, why not regulate the use of this opportunity? It could be resolved that you will conclude what this money can be spent on, what work can be done from this. That's not what you're doing, and it shows that it's a perfectly transparent reason, and you're eliminating the whole system. Let's move on to the false reasons. They didn't lead to house building. Of course not, in many cases they only led to the renovation of the apartment, but they were also important in many ways, a modernisation, an extension of the apartment. A lot of people don't need a new apartment, but they can fix their own housing. Well, they didn't lead to house building, you said, because young people could save so little. Let's just stop for a second. Don't blame young people for the fact that the average Hungarian youth earns, say, 200,000 forints, and can't save 20,000 forints! Wait a minute, you're mad at the young people here because you're making little money, among other things, and that's why you can't save more money for a place. So don't let them be to blame. Let's keep going over the false reasons. There's an extra pro, too. Of course, it may have been extra profit, although many of us are debating the extent of this, but I do not want to deal with the situation of the four housing savings banks concerned, because this whole proposal that you have just submitted here is not only punishing them, but punishing the more than one million Hungarian citizens who are trying to save their money with this method, and this is a much more important aspect than how these four companies managed. If you are so concerned about how they were able to farm, as has already been said here by my fellow Member, you would have had eight years to regulate this and to channel it in some way. Instead, you are punishing more than one and a half million people who have had this kind of savings in the last 21 years, and a lot of people have been able to buy or renovate apartments. These are therefore not real reasons at all, and it is quite absurd that in the year of the families, you are here with such a proposal, which is clearly against the families. Not to mention the non-negligible aspect of the fact that this system created a type of solidarity and responsibility within the family by helping each other by making such savings for each other, which would have been very important, and it would certainly have been in the year of families. That's what you're up against right now. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In closing, I would like to ask László Böröcz here as President of Fidelitas: how dare you look your own members in the eye after supporting such a proposal? And I would also ask Ms Lorrinc Nacsa, President of the ICS, who didn't dare come into this debate, at least not here now: how dare you look your own young people in the eye after voting in favour of such a proposal that you are doing them harm? I think it would be very important for your young people to have this opportunity, and not for these people to be punished, but if they really have a problem, then make rules that can control the use of these savings, or even the management of these companies, and not punish these 1.5 million clients. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. György Szi-lágyi: That's right!]] [[11.00]]
u2018-10-16-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Congresswoman, if you don't mind, I'll wait for you to put the microphone on. [[The speaker will get his mic picked up.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I mentioned that I will also give a little mention in my next speech about the problems and crises of housing stock and housing crisis in Hungary, and how important a problem we can talk about. For the seventh year, the Habitat organization has prepared its report on housing poverty, how we stand year after year with the existing housing population, and what this organization is experiencing, because, in my opinion, it is the government's duty to prepare a report every year, and we see it the same way that the poverty report was drawn up in 2015 by the HCSO, and we do not get proper information on how we are dealing with the housing problem in Hungary. Allow me to read some of these sentences, and they will understand. My fellow opponents will understand. [[Turning to pro-government representatives:]] And you go in one ear, and you go out the other, but you can understand why we are protesting this independent motion and this amendment of the law, why it shouldn't be lifted. As in recent years, one of the most important findings in the 2018 Housing Report is that the housing crisis in Hungary is deepening. One and a half million people live in homes with severe housing quality problems. In most cases, people living in these crowded, wet, low-comfortable apartments have no money to renovate their apartments. About 80 percent of Hungary's 4,4 million residential properties do not meet modern technical and energy criteria, i.e. the housing costs and quality of life of the majority of Hungarians are particularly affected by the physical characteristics of the building stock. One in three households suffers from housing-related affordability problems, so they spend an unrealistic amount of money on rent, rent or house loans compared to their income. In this year's report, like last year, we consider households affected by housing poverty to be in a more vulnerable and vulnerable situation than average in terms of affordability, quality of housing and energy efficiency. A household living in housing poverty is highly likely to fall into several groups, so careful estimates suggest that 2 to 3 million people live in housing poverty at national level, i.e. experience one of the four housing problems. And the partial problems of housing poverty form an interlinked vicious circle called a housing poverty trap. Ideally, it would be up to the State to remove the housing poverty trap and reduce the disadvantages of housing poverty. This year's housing report also concludes that the vast majority of public funds for housing support more affluent families, such as family housing benefits, i.e. CSOK. According to our calculations, non-reliable housing expenditure in the central budget is roughly ninefold higher. So the CSOK programme, which reaches a very narrow layer, is nine times more than, say, the support of families in difficulty who are facing a housing crisis. The State is therefore increasingly withdrawing from the solution of housing poverty and intervenes in an inadequate way. The result is an deepening of housing poverty and an increase in social disparities. When this report was completed, we did not even know that this amendment would be submitted. The speakers before me also said that they should become self-employed and look at the message of this amendment for young people. You have also said in this debate how serious the demographic situation is and that all of your actions are targeted in the family-friendly year to solve this serious crisis. I would add that we have now entered the ninth year of government, and we are still talking about how serious the demographic situation is in Hungary. Nothing could be improved on demographic issues in Hungary. In 2008, when the crisis broke out, more than 99 thousand children were born. I always say when I say that 2011 was the lowest point of birth when just over 88,000 children were born in Hungary. There was some improvement in the statistics because the birth rate went up to 93,000, but we can't increase that now. There are many reasons for this. One of the reasons is that the number of women of childbearing age is drastically decreasing in Hungary; one in six Hungarian children is now not born in Hungary, but abroad, and one in ten women of parenting age is not now in Hungary, but abroad. I think that it is precisely they who should send a message to the government with measures that would encourage these young Hungarians to help the government and try to tell them that it is worth having children in Hungary and that it is worth raising children in Hungary. It's amazing when you bring such laws into Parliament and tell the young people that we don't care about you, we don't care that you exist, we don't care what you do, we don't care what you do, we don't care about you. The only thing that matters is that we get along. Well, fellow Members, I can't do this anymore. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would pick up about where the congresswoman left off, referring to my pro-government fellow Members who began to justify this bill or explain the certificate by worrying about demographic trends. They didn't say they were worried about emigration, but I think they have no moral basis to express such thoughts anymore. In fact, they have not been ruling for eight years, because they have had 12 and a half years to combat these processes in the past, but the tragedy, the national tragedy that appears in the exodus of hundreds of thousands of young people, has reached that astonishing level during your government period. Exactly because of these problems, because of the wage crisis, because of the housing crisis, because of the disruption of the education system and the uncertainty in general, because of the unpredictable nature of this type of legislation, this kind of governance. I can repeat, fellow Members, that you no longer have any moral basis to refer to demographic problems. As a speaker, Bánki Erik Baranya County Representative, more than 20,000 people left Baranya County in ten years, 13 thousand people left Pécs in ten years, and I think you can see from your body the tragedy that your government has caused, which you are lying to the national. But overall, your government's performance is a national tragedy. Now I'm glad you're here as a pointer. Listening to this debate, I agree with most of my fellow opposition Members, but I trust that we will be given concrete answers to these points, even in a close word, so I would like to add the points and, to say it, to my fellow Member in the form of concrete questions. First of all, I would like to ask my fellow Member who gave him the political order to draft this bill. By the way, we may have gotten used to the fact that if the government wanted to use such a political club as a lightning bolt from such a clear sky, it would use my fellow Member as a stromony to put his name on this bill, but there was obviously a political order behind it. Then let's be honest. Tell me, my fellow Member, whose political order this was. As I have seen, by the way, some of my pro-government fellow Members have been genuinely surprised by this measure and the way in which it is done, but I think that if we get at least some sort of veiled answer to that, we will see much more clearly on this extremely serious issue. I am interested in being specific, and I would also like to state this as a specific issue, a justification for the timetable. Try to justify it in some way. My fellow members of the Government mentioned in their speeches that this system, this housing savings fund system, did not fulfil the expectations attached to it. They also said that it is not working properly, or that one of my fellow Members said that he asked the opposition to vote on this bill, more precisely because of compliance with the requirements of responsible management. Several of my fellow Members have pointed out that you have had eight years to address this problem or to address the problems that have now been raised as justification. That's not true. This system has been operational for 21 years since January 97. During that time, you've been ruling for 12 1/2 years. What has prevented you from addressing these problems recently? [[11.10]] So this is a specific question of why this should be pushed through in practically 24 hours. In 12 years, why didn't you think of dealing with these problems? I'm asking you, what's the script for the next period? Here, my fellow Members have already mentioned that this problem could even cause market chaos, and I see that it has already caused it. I think the minimum is to tell us what the scenario is in terms of running out of the system, what Hungarian society can expect from you in terms of alternative measures and the introduction of alternative proposals. Members of the opposition have also said that a significant part of the reasons why you are trying to justify this proposal can be disproved, but there are even legitimate findings among them. At the same time, you have every opportunity to address these problems, even to introduce new restrictions, although it has also been said from my opposition fellow Member that there have been corrections, amendments and restrictions in the system. I feel, and I see that I agree with almost all my fellow Members in this respect, that this system is basically good and that the existing visible problems could be corrected. Why don't you try to do that? Why are they dropping bombs on this entire system? Why would they want to destroy it? My fellow Members also spoke in detail about the fact that this type of self-care and saving system offers opportunities to many people who have no other option, as well as to young people and older people. My fellow Members have referred to condominiums as to the possibility of renovations. Overall, we can say that even for small money it was a kind of saving opportunity, even for small money people to save, along with all their social and economic benefits. In particular, what can you say to those in the next period who have expected this system, who have either used it or planned to use it, what will be their means of self-care, pre-saving, what alternative can you tell them? What alternative can they offer, what kind of explanation can they give to those who cannot benefit from other self-care or support schemes that otherwise exist, they simply do not belong in these circles, such as singles, no children, and, let's say, they would like to start a family later, and they would need support for that. My opposition colleagues spoke about the difficult state of the budget. I think that this is the least or most of the issues that should not be discussed in connection with this issue, because we can see that there are a lot of items in the budget, a lot of processes and projects that the government spends billions, even hundreds of billions, which are completely unnecessary and whose return is at least questionable. You are talking about 70 billion forints a year, so I'll give you just one example: you want to spend 700 billion in a few years' time to renovate the Budapest-Belgrade railway line from a Chinese loan, and there is no clear guarantee of its return. So it is a virtual reality to talk about this, that this system should be established taking into account the budgetary aspects. I look forward to a concrete response to the way in which chaos and panic are being tackled, which is now outlined and visible. Finally, my fellow Members have referred to this, what can you say to the hundreds of thousands whose livelihoods will cease in one day, whose livelihoods will cease in one day? How can you look these people in the eye? What can you say to these people as the responsible government of Hungary, as a pro-government Member of Parliament? I would also like to ask my fellow Members, my fellow Members, for whom, in comparison with, say, a direct political order, your own conscience still matters something to consider the social and economic, the serious negative social and economic impact of this forced bill if you now vote for it as a clear political instruction. I ask you to withdraw this proposal and to show openness to a wide-ranging debate that could correct this system in such a way that it continues to meet the function of which it has already met, has given a very, very large number of people an apartment, or has given the opportunity to achieve different housing goals and renovations. I ask for your insight, and please accept that you have received your mandate not from Fidesz, not from Viktor Orbán, but from the Hungarian people, and accordingly take a responsible decision today. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Mrs Bősz Anett, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor again because it is not just about self-care or taking responsibility for ourselves. It is also about you taking away your personal freedom for those who have concluded a house savings contract for some purpose. I think that if they want to invest in value added, this will not be debatable from them. That is why I do not consider it fair to them that, after they have not spent any money buying new homes, the government must react with some kind of withdrawal of a license. That's not a good way to go under any circumstances. What the opposition colleagues have already talked about here, if your goal is to bring these people into the CSOK system, my question is what they expect of young people. We have talked a lot about being a country of unborn children. In order for the third child to be born in a family, I think I may not have to explain to the chairman of the Economic Commission, the first two must also be born. The opposition colleagues have also spoken a great deal about the need to start off with an apartment in some way, and it will not be possible for these young people to receive some kind of help with nesting. We have said many times that, if you want to encourage children, you should first of all look at where we stand with equality between women and men and where we stand with equal opportunities. In the free world, most children are born where women are equal to men, where they feel safe in the labour market, where they can be fulfilled, where they are not otherwise affected by legal disadvantages as mothers, and this is where Hungary has to move forward. In the rarest case, social benefits can increase the number of children, in the rarest case they can help young people to trust their future. I think, with this method of work, so quickly to change the rules on an otherwise very popular money market service, it has a specific impact, however, on the way in which citizens cannot trust this government, on their ability to do the same for themselves in the future. I am asking you, therefore, to consider these comments. If the preliminary debates have not been held, what I see is that they have not agreed in advance with the profession, and that this initiative should be withdrawn at the moment, that we should discuss this, and that a compromise will be reached that will benefit all actors. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I would like to address Mr László Varga, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For those who follow us in any way, there are obviously more and more pro-government Members coming into the room, which is also because from 11.30 a.m., decisions are supposed to be made here. Obviously, from 11.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m., so if this debate goes on, then decisions will follow after the end of the debate. I am asking you not to be shocked at the fact that there is a debate going on here, not to ask yourself that this is the time to go on, but to try to take part in this debate. There is a process, a procedure that forces the destruction of the housing savings system through the Hungarian Parliament. I think it's at least worth talking about time frames, trying to exchange ideas. We will, of course, try to convince you to withdraw this proposal, which is still our firm position, because hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens, who themselves would put aside state aid to achieve their future housing goals, make the situation impossible for hundreds of thousands of such Hungarian citizens. The solution would be to withdraw, then to bring in a new proposal, to discuss proposals to improve the otherwise existing system after a preliminary discussion with the stakeholders. That would therefore be necessary. I'm going to ask you to accept your opinion. I can see that Fidesz is still well within its timeframe, he had one speaker, while at least 10-12 opposition representatives gave their views, and I am very curious about the opinion of the KDNP faction, since none of their representatives spoke, and as a single faction there was no lead speaker on this subject. I ask you not to respond with a dictatorship after the debate is over. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I want you to give me your opinion on the subject. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr Péter Ungár is next for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.20]]
u2018-10-16-69	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to ask the author two questions. One: if you could define it now and in general, what is the difference between extraprofit and profit for you, so that you don't have to bring something back every time Erik Bánki dreams that he thinks it's not a profit, it's an extra profit. If it were to be defined, Mr President, that the state-supported housing loan scheme, from which a financial institution can make a profit, was bad in itself, the civilian government did so between 1998 and 2002. When the representatives who were next to me were in the government and they withdrew, you considered this measure to be a very bad thing. So my question is, if every time the banks can make some kind of profit because of a housing loan scheme, it's wrong, then why did the first Orbán government use it. Or could you re-define the difference between profit and extra profit without telling us what interest you personally have in making that definition. It would be wonderful to have such a general ideological, philosophical definition, I think it would be very important for everyone. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the debate, and I would ask you to please... [[Noise on the opposition side.]] My fellow Members, I would like to draw the attention of all Members to this and to ensure that the debate is secured. Mr Zsolt Gréczy is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that people started voting on this story yesterday afternoon, because as soon as the news came out, they flooded these cash registers, because they feel the trouble you're dealing with here with a shrug. These people hope that, until this law is passed, it is not announced, that these contracts may still be concluded, and that they may not be accompanied by private pensions, which you have stolen and lived up to, all 3,000 billion, to the greatest shame of the past eight years. I would also like to draw attention to the basis on which you are talking about family-friendly governance at all. Well, they're destroying the Hungarian families now! I definitely don't understand KDNP on this. Because we all know that Fidesz is a businessman's congregation; power brokers, nothing else. But KDNP should have some sort of Christian ethics or Christian social sensitivity. I don't know what Soros agents have taken you, or the Ignatian Inquisition Task Force from Loyola has set foot in KDNP to watch you rip off Hungarian families and destroy peaceful construction for the next decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-16-72	Thank you very much. Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, I can only give you the opportunity to speak properly, because MEP László Varga has already made use of the faction for two minutes. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-16-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd just like to show you something once you've come into the Chamber. Mr President said that he would draw attention to the debate. Well, you didn't come in here to argue, you came in here to push down the buttons and get out of here. Yesterday, one of the citizens gave me a 50 forint. I didn't understand why you were giving me 50 forints. And then he told me to turn it around. On the other side of the 50 forints it is written that it is the year of the family. I'd like to throw this 50 forint at you right now. Aren't you ashamed? It is not enough that for 500 million forints all the bridges have been flagged in Budapest, and then they flooded the country with posters and advertisements about the fact that it is a family-friendly year, and how should families be encouraged to finally have those desired children? ! You know, it's not like that. Because of the measures we are discussing, the house savings and many other measures in recent years, these young people are not taking children into Hungary, but they are running away because of you. And believe me, it is no longer for us to account for it, but you will have to take responsibility for why Hungarian young people are going abroad and giving birth to Hungarian children there, and why not in their beloved country, Hungary. Dear fellow Members, I think they should stop spending this kind of money now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, notary of the Parliament, has applied for the next ordinary speech. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would tell those who didn't come in for the debate, but only to press the button and execute the housing savings cooperatives, what it is about, why this form of savings is so popular in the increasingly impoverished middle class. Because of the money that was saved and put into these cooperatives, at least they still got something, and they thought that they could accomplish much more of this, whether it was a renovation of the apartment, whether in the case of young people or in the case of anyone, in connection with a loan. That's what you want to stop now. So the reason he was so popular was because they got something with their money. And why was this shape still good? Because they got something for their money, they agreed that this money would then be spent in a targeted way on renovations or purchases related to the apartment, and they had to prove it with an invoice. So this whole system was also useful for the whitening of the economy. And then you will bring it to the House overnight, as the lightning struck from the sky, with Erik Bánki's own motion to eliminate this whole system completely. You can say that it will not be abolished, that only the state aid will be withdrawn from this system, but everyone knows that this will mean that it will cease to exist as the whole system does. And then they come up with their arguments. In a normal country, we shouldn't think about what the government wants, because a normal government should want to put forward as much proposals and laws as possible for the benefit of the people in this House. There are two arguments in your arguments explaining why State aid should be withdrawn. One is that they say that these housing savings banks don't give people interest. Yeah, but banks don't give people interest either. The question is whether they will try to take action against the banks, too. If there is a problem with a sector, the solution is not to eliminate the whole sector, but to force it to work as well as possible. So you would have had the opportunity to sit down with these housing savings cooperatives and tell them to give people some interest from your profits, give people x percent of their money. And what would they have done with that? They would have made the return on their invested money even better for the people who could have spent more of it. Their other argument was that they said that these housing cooperatives had acquired extra profit. This argument would also be acceptable if the figures did not change. Yesterday, they said that this extra profit was 60 billion forints, and today we have heard 70 billion from some Fidesz MEPs. It would be nice if I decided how much this extra profit was, after all. And if they told you not to make that much money, it could be backed up, especially if they had raised their word against the extra profit in other cases. For example, if one of you had stood up here today and said that it was necessary to examine that Lőrinc Mészáros won the public procurements for HUF 96 billion more than they had been announced. This is a serious extra profit, 96 billion forints. If one of you had stood up and said that it was unacceptable that the brokerage companies involved in the settlement bond business had obtained nearly HUF 80 billion of extra profit, it would be acceptable that you would resent this among others. But as we know, your justification doesn't usually include reality, so we need to think about why we had to submit this proposal here. I would also defend Mr Böröcz here against my fellow Member. Well, how would he speak up for the young, like the president of Fidelitas, when Rogán Antal gives the order to vote now and beat him through the House because it's in the best interest of friends and friends? ! This could be one of the ulterior motives that brought this bill in. You remember, I think, in 2016, you introduced the national home-building communities, the so-called housing lotto service, on the proposal of Antal Rogán. [[11.30]] Then Antal Rogán said in the ATV:. The housing savings cooperatives will not be deprived of anything, they will also receive state aid. All that's happened is they get a competitor. What happened now after a year and a half? This competitor is being removed from the market; because Antal Rogán and his friends need this market. This is one of the reasons, in all likelihood, that you will now vote for the abolition of this sector. The other reason, and this is not negligible, has recently been the news that the European Commission has announced that it is not yet accepting new invoices from Hungary. And what was your answer to that? Thousands of civil servants have been forced to lay off, and now they're abolishing, say, state aid for housing savings. So there is no EU payment, so the budget deficit is likely to go thick and you need to replace these gaps from somewhere. So the question arises, and it would be good if you honestly answered that question. The budget is in trouble, so all kinds of restrictions need to be introduced? Or, besides the fact that restrictions are still being introduced, they believe that this entire market will be transferred to the company of Antal Rogán and his friends, giving him this opportunity to provide the extra profit that others have produced or received, and from now on, Antal Rogán will receive. I think we should speak frankly here in this House. It should not be foggy all the time, it should not be any different arguments made when you are ruining the savings of many people. Many people are being put in a difficult position, and they are putting families and people in a difficult position who, thanks to your eight-year-old regency, give the middle class that is becoming more and more poor, increasingly slipping away and having less and less opportunities in Hungary today. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Csárdi Antal from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-77	Mr President, Dear House, [[Noise.]] Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna wait a little while to hear what I have to say on the other side of the room. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] During the debate, it occurred to me that my fellow Member Bánki might tell me what it is and what the extra profit is, which makes profit extra. I thought I'd look into it, tell you what an extra pro is, help you do your job. Extra profit is the 96 billion HUF with which Lőrinc Mészáros has won public procurement in the last three years. That's what we call an extra profit. This reminds me immediately that, by the way, there is a budgetary reason for this decision. Please respectfully, we can say for sure that there is no budgetary implications for this decision, or at least no budgetary need. Consider the operating costs of MTVA exceeding 92 billion, or the additional costs and extra costs of Lőrinc Mészáros mentioned above. You can say that there's basically money for all of these, because that's what you want. There is no money for this, which helps the self-care of Hungarian society, which helps savers. I think that, on the one hand, my prediction that Fidesz-KDNP will not be involved in this debate has worked, and I would like to congratulate everyone on that, because they did not really participate in the debate. They could not participate in this debate because they were all ashamed of themselves. I would like to confirm to my honourable fellow Members that you are rightly ashamed. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I am speaking to Mr Sándor Székely of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Erik Bánki! Yesterday in the Committee on Economics, he said that the reason why this proposal came into the committee without any presentation was when we asked why there was no normal proposal so that we could argue about it, that there would be reason that one would expect when we talked about the country's affairs, that there would be nothing wrong, and then we would argue with each other here today. This case didn't work out, you guys aren't arguing, it looks like you're just coming in, and we're gonna vote soon, and then you're gonna go home. Looks like there's something wrong with reality perception here, because either the economy is pounding, or there's something really wrong. You do not save foreign exchange credentials, you make higher education money, wages are increasing, but in the meantime, the cafetheria is being taken away, and now even this opportunity is being deprived of Hungarian ordinary people to get some kind of housing support. I don't know. Sooner or later, the reality planet is gonna kick the door to you. I don't know what's gonna happen. In the meantime, I could suggest that we abandon these democratic frameworks, that they lead some more dictatorial regulation, which is now divining in some Eastern countries, and leave this disguise with which you appear to be puppets, with this Parliament and with us. Take it, and then we'll see what the people of this country have to say about it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-16-80	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the Fidesz Members and the KDNP Members. I see there's more and more of them in the room. I would like to inform you that the vote was actually scheduled for 12:30, but there is a debate here. I would point out that we wanted to have another debate yesterday, for example, about our presentation for foreign exchange credentials, about a series of articles. Then they weren't here in such a nice number. So at least now that you're here, we're using this opportunity to have a real debate on the destruction of housing savings banks and their proposal for it. Once again, he was a single fidesz speaker, and we have not yet heard the opinion of the KDNP fraction on this issue. We're very curious. I want you to face the people who are waiting. Wait until the end of the debate, and we'll have a conflict of opinion. At least that much solidarity with people who are now lining up in financial institutions and giving their views on the house savings system at the last minute. They're signing a contract because they think it's a good system. Once again, if a correction is needed, a presentation of it will be submitted. After a real social and professional debate, let the Parliament decide on this, but do not beat this system with a dictatorship. I'm also glad that the members of the government are here, and there are several wallets involved in this construction. I look forward to your opinion as well. Yesterday, no member of government here in this Chamber paid tribute to the debate on our motion to be included in the series of items for their assistance. Let's take advantage of the possibility that government members are here now. Please talk to him. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr László György Lukács is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the very beginning, Erik Bánki said that the house savings fund had not fulfilled the expectations. I'd like to ask you back what didn't come out of it. Is it not enough for people in the countryside to use it to renovate their apartments, build a garage, make heating upgrades? 'Cause that's what a lot of people made him do. Most of the rural Hungary finds its own home by not building something, not moving into Pasa Park, but inhabiting and making home the old properties that were empty, or belonging to the family, from which it was possible to make a home, so that something had to be renovated. My fellow Member, I know that you are also a country representative, and I know that you know these problems. Think of how many people have gone through the process of making these properties that were waiting to be abandoned, so that they could fill up. This is exactly what we're taking away from the next generation. Whether we take from rural youths or older ones to make them a home, build homes from these properties. In my view, this will simply exclude these rural residents from creating a decent home for themselves. And it is also interesting when we talk about what we take away and how much it costs: we are talking about 72 thousand forints, which is a maximum annual fee. [[11.40]] Butcher Lawrence will find this in 24 seconds. What you regret about these residents, no one regrets Lőrinc Mé-száros. I repeat, he's got this in 24 seconds. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] I, fellow Members, who are rural representatives, but even from Budapest, suggest that you consider it. And I look with good intentions at my fellow Member, Mr Tilki, my fellow Member, Kovács, on those who live in settlements where it is important that home creation is maintained, the old buildings are somehow renovated, the apartments are inhabited and families find themselves there. This opportunity is working against it. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't support this, don't want to hurt rural people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-10-16-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next from the independent group is Szabolcs Szabó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-85	Thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to say in the beginning that it was a successful and good product. That would be a shame to argue, it would be a shame to open a debate about it, to quote Comrade Virág. Why was this a successful and good product? Because, for example, there is no interest period. For example, because the details are predictable, unlike when, let's say, housing loans, don't give, God, people took on currency loans. For this reason, it is possible to calculate exactly what savings and the related loans will be used to repay money when you can renovate or buy a flat, because let's not forget that many people have used this construction for self-subsidisation. If there were and we know that there are otherwise such regulatory shortcomings, to which the rapporteur referred, it must be excluded. But my fellow Members have talked about this a lot. I would like to draw attention here to what one of our bank leaders said today, one of the leaders of one of the Hungarian banks said today that he does not know what is happening here, he was at a game yesterday. This gentleman's bank made a lot of money on all kinds of housing loans, and I think the key to the solution is about the fact that the housing savings banks were able to provide a very competitive product. In this segment, banks simply cannot provide a competitive product at the moment. We need to see, say, the change of the JTM indicators from October 1st, how they've been transformed again. Therefore, it is obvious that it is all about transferring the profits that Erik Bánki objects to into the bank of the bank leader who is going to the match. I think it's worth thinking about. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-16-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Lajos Korózs can only speak in the next round. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group is now followed by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-87	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I very much welcome my fellow pro-government Members. 80 percent of them were not in the Chamber when the substance of this debate took place, but I assume they know what it is, those who talk to each other, those who interject but should not press the button, because their boss forbade them to participate in this debate. I see that my position is very funny, my fellow Member, so please express your opinion by pressing a button that you will be deprived of the maximum amount of state support that would be needed to start their lives at HUF 70,000 per year from young Hungarians and middle-aged Hungarians, which would be necessary to enable them to start creating their own home. Before we go into detail what your proposal is about, I would like to mention that in a similar way, when you asked for an exceptional trial, so you decided something, and you beat it through the system in two days, despite all logic, despite all economic and logic, then what happened. We're talking about when you've done this in the last few years. For foreign exchange loans, when they were able to forint at the market rate, Fidesz made a deal with banks and hit people with the burden of foreign exchange loans. The great dust of Sunday's closed hours were beaten through the same way, and fortunately, the senses eventually triumphed. But we can say that they did the same thing, and in two days, without debate, they raped parliamentarianism through some madness. When the president and the members of the MNB were about to raise their salary for 5 million HUF, they did the same thing. And let us not forget about lex Tiborcz, which in public procurement allowed the kinship of certain political leaders to share, where appropriate, the goods that can be obtained in a public procurement procedure. But back to the subject: I would like to tell you that what you are doing is incomprehensible from an economic point of view. If we look at the studies of the various research institutes, we can see that there is a single HUF state aid that has been added to the housing savings, and we can find 7 forints of spent investment. So we find a multiplier effect that is clearly positive for the Hungarian economy, contributed to the maintenance of Hungarian jobs, generated the payment of additional tax forints. So there's no economic sense in what you're doing. I'll tell you one more time, you've got seven forints of moved forints. It is pointless, therefore, to disarm such an efficient investment. I would also like to tell you that the cowardly conduct with which Fidesz, especially KDNP, withdraws from the debate, is more talkable than anything else. They don't insult me, they don't offend my fellow factions, although I can't speak for them, they spit on the voters behind us, hundreds of thousands and millions of people, that they don't even try to make sense of it, generate it, rape it for the madness they're about to do. I would also like to say that I ask you to let go of the argument that the aim of pre-saving housing was to create new-built apartments. There are a lot of specific cases where someone can't use a CSOK, but the only possibility of creating a part of themselves, if any, is housing savings and the deposit system, the system that they want to eliminate right now. I also have to tell you that the typical Hungarian life situation is not that, let's say, there is a change ban on a beach, the local government is lifting this ban, Mr.Garancsi is allowed to build a residential park, and then the change ban is re-ordered, and the happy people in this residential park are buying the expensive apartments. This is not the typical life situation, and I am pointing this out not only to the current government of Hungary, but also to the former, if Hungarian people are to renovate their property, if they wish to make their homes more modern by changing the insulation, so they are doing their own separate cuts instead of the regnating government. The fact is that even EU funds would be available for all of this, but not only will this not be extended to the population, but they will also take away the little, the remainder, which they would not have the right to do and which would serve the Hungarian future. That is why I am calling you for the last time, due to the limited time frame, so that you do not live up to the Hungarian future, and do not eat up the Hungarian future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two of the MSZP Group have applied. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs for two minutes.
u2018-10-16-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to remind you that there is a spooky resemblance between the extension of private pension savings and the bill that has just been tabled. The resemblance is spooky! The same technology was used at the time, and see a miracle, a few months later 3000 billion forints disappeared, booked, we don't know where 3 million young people's savings are. You knew exactly what the fate of that money would be when this dark son of a bitch István Töröcskei was placed at the head of the organization who was tasked with settling the fate of this money. You said you'd protect him then. They said it would be hereditary. They also said it would be credited to an individual account. Now we're going so far that they don't promise to protect him anymore, they don't say it's an individual account, and they don't say it's hereditary. Why the hell should I give such a cuckoo title to this proposal that the 1996 CXIII on the Housing Savings Bank? T/2600 on the amendment of Act T/2600. Bill No.3? ! You don't have to give me a title like that, you have to tell me how to make money, because the register is empty. And then everyone's gonna know they're gonna steal this. That's exactly what they're gonna do. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-90	Congressman, the speech in Parliament does not exempt anyone from any expression, especially those who are not here. [[Lajos Korózs: Well, he's still a scoundrel! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] [[11.50]] The Deputy Director-General informed me that Mr Sándor Burány had not yet arrived, but the request had already been sent to the office and the intention of the Group of Dialogue to give 15 minutes of time to the group of MSZP. I'm gonna need you to take this down, and I'm gonna need you to record it on the billboard. Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Bence Tordai, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2018-10-16-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fortunately, my fellow Members from the pro-government side are here now. Last night they did not honour the Hungarian Parliament with their presence, and they have not shown outstanding activity in the last few hours. I especially miss the KDNP's comment, although, in fact, if you look at everyone's position as to what they represent, KDNP does not actually have anything to do with it, as KDNP does not have any voters. [[Defiance and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] In this sense, it is perfectly all right that 6 percent of KDNP according to the View Point survey [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Maybe you'll give me credit for that, too. So I'm sorry that KDNP doesn't tell its non-existent voters about this obvious theft, this despicable scoundrelry. What are you going to do now? The political consensus of the last 20 years has been disrupted. In the last 20 years, millions of Hungarians have expected that if they put forints on forints, they can move a little further in a few years, live in a slightly larger, a little more comfortable, more comfortable apartment, or even buy a new apartment. You now deprive the Hungarian people of this opportunity. This is the Hungarian middle class; this is 72 thousand forints a year, they are not the millionaires you know; they are not the fidesz oligarchs who buy castles for billions; they are not János Lázár, who sometimes find a hunting castle in the land of a friend for a few hundred million. It's not about them. When you take away the house savings, when you eliminate this system, you take away the dream of Hungarian people, in a country where housing poverty affects 2.5 million people, 2.5 million people live in Hungary today in poorly insulated, moldy, not all-comfortable homes, or even overcrowded. That's what I'm talking about. A quarter of the Hungarian people, who need the services provided by house savings, are the ones who do not dare to be indebted, because there is nothing to do with it, but if there is such a construction that they can advance in a few years at the cost of saving a few thousand or two thousand forints per month, they would do so. They would, but you're taking this opportunity away from them. They take away the opportunity to break out of everyday misery, to eliminate the inconvenience, to provide healthy living space, a home for their children and themselves. And why are you doing all this? Because one of the Oligarchs near Fidesz was looking out for this market. When they're plowing into a whole industry, that's what's behind it. Then we can always see where those funds are being shifted to, where those savings are being shifted, which interest groups are going to get rich again, and here they are really making extra profit, unlike the current well regulated financial services sector. What other brilliant thought of Rogán will emerge here? How are Erik Bánki and his friends going to put billions in their pockets after all kinds of wrenches? This is what we will see in the coming months and years, because the government itself is not about the ministry, you are not about the interests of the people here. You serve private interests, Viktor Orbán, the private interests of Fidesz and their friendly business in this House when you try to legislate. But what's this legislation like? He's like you, mean and sneaky. The introduction of such a proposal yesterday afternoon and the adoption of it this morning is simply a mockery of parliamentarianism. Democracy doesn't matter to you, you wouldn't give a penny for it, it's just a disturbing circumstance to listen to opposition representatives in this debate. And it's embarrassing, because we're about to have votes, where the bosses have called themselves, and they don't know how long this debate will take, and they don't know how long they're going to have to listen to opposition representatives. Me for about 20 seconds, but fortunately, the MSZP colleagues will continue, and they will continue to blame themselves for what they really do, so they will be forced to face it. They can't get away with at least listening to what they're actually doing; what they're assisting; what they're assisting with as a simple mameluk, trained button-pressing droid. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among other things: Ugh! Shut up! You should be ashamed of yourself. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm planning this in about 13 seconds. [[Constant intervention from the pro-government side, among other things: Shame on you! I'm not a droid, you idiot!]] Then you can think for yourself. You'll have some time. I wish you a wise decision. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The left defends the extra profit! It's very nice. The president's ringing the bell. A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Noise in the room.]]
u2018-10-16-92	Everybody, stay calm. The repeated speech from the MSZP group will be followed by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP, and I ask you to listen with patience to what time there is before the vote, if you are already qualified to come to your workplace. Although I am still patient, because I was very excited to see if Minister Antal Rogán would come in and take his place, in case we could give him a few sentences, but it seems that he will wait for the last moment if he comes to the vote today. In my lead speakers, I read a letter from a voter and allow me to read it again because they have now come into Parliament. Interesting, because this letter is for you too. We got it yesterday. Please convey my outrage at the new attack on pensioners on the part of the government. The only form of saving is the form of savings in housing savings, which allowed the elderly to modernise, renovate, and acquire rental rights in retirement homes. Now this opportunity is being deprived of the elderly by the government, and our opportunities are still limited in many areas, thanks to the government. It's outrageous, it's outrageous, it's genocidal, it's a series of laws against the elderly. No matter how much of a burden we are to the government, we cannot hide alive under the ground. Please convey my opinion, my despair to the lawmakers. Do whatever you can to make sure Parliament doesn't accept this. This was written by a retired citizen. Dear fellow Members, Self - care, home shopping, renovations, and a lot of things were discussed during the morning. I don't know if you know how much a Hungarian youth or a family has to save to buy an apartment today. I am glad that Congressman Lajos Kósa is here, because according to the last statistics published, I will start with an example in Debrecen. To buy a 50 square meter used apartment in Debrecen today, a couple has to save 9 years of net income; for 9 years, and without paying rent, not eating, not raising children, not clothed. You have to spend every penny you have for nine years, save money to buy a 50 square foot flat in Debrecen, and we're not talking about a swimming pool, not a Jacuzzi, which is written in the explanatory statement, but just a 50 square foot flat in Debrecen. If you wanted to buy a new apartment, you wouldn't have to eat, drink, clothe, raise a child for 11 years, just put down all the money you earned. You know you can't do this, right? And if I were to tell you that you're going to have to keep up, then a couple would have to save up for about 40 years today to get a new apartment. You don't really think that we need to put laws like this between the walls of Parliament, which narrow the possibility of saving, taking care of yourself, a young couple, and can you say that he wants to buy his own apartment, or would he like to renovate his existing apartment? ! I think that if so many people have come in and we look forward to this vote, we are also before the vote on this law, then really, for once, think about it and do not adopt this law. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2018-10-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me say some worrying words about young people or young people. How are we going to explain to our children that there is a decent growth? Well, shouldn't you be raising children in a decent family to save money, put me aside, work, don't live up to your money, and save a little time for a peaceful, decent growth? Even now, Hungarian young people are in a completely deterrent situation, there are high schools where 50 percent of the young people surveyed plan not to live in Hungary, and they want to leave this country. You are paying for health care and education, and it follows that even fewer children with poorer fates will get into higher education. This will result in these young people going abroad, paying taxes abroad, paying social security abroad, having their children born abroad, and receiving these children here in Hungary by such Skype grandmothers who will wave into a camera to see their children and grandchildren at all. What you are doing right now is nothing more than burning, reviving, setting the future on fire in front of young Hungarians, and it is a disgrace and a disgrace. Undo this bill right now! Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now is the opportunity for two-minute speeches. Mr László Varga is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue where Zsolt Gréczy left off: this proposal is not suitable for the Parliament to accept it today, to withdraw this proposal! And don't be surprised that there is a debate going on here, and that we should have voted on this proposal half an hour ago, that we will take advantage of the opportunity to debate, and we would ask you to conflict our arguments, to discuss in this short time, what is still available, what we think on this subject. Have solidarity with the people. They, too, are now lining up in financial institutions, and at the last moments they are trying to make use of the possibility of opening house savings. And the fact that the Group of Dialogue, by the way, thank you for giving us some of your time frame, don't be surprised. I saw here from the KDNP, for example, my colleague Lőrinc Nacsa applauded and smiled very peskyly. I would like to say to you that, indeed, our faction has much to say on the subject, and I hope you have something to say, too. The way I see it, they haven't spoken a minute of their 30 minutes. If people who are trying to take advantage of this opportunity at the last minute and assist in the Fidesz initiative to destroy the system of house savings in Hungary, at least honor the Hungarian people by telling them why they are doing this. Very simple, Congressman: you have to press a button, stand up, tell it. I am surprised that the KDNP did not speak in the main speakerial round, and now I see that it does not wish to speak in the debate. I also find this shocking, and I also call on the Fidesz Members because only one of their Members has spoken to them to take their opinions, to face people and to take part in the debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-98	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last 24 hours, countless phone calls and e-mails have been received from Elizabeth and Teresa City. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It also shows that this is perhaps one of the easiest opportunities for lending and saving, and what is interesting is that not only individuals, but also condominiums, pensioners and large families, have called and asked me to convey to other members of the Erzsébet and Terézváros that they should not vote, because they will watch who will vote today. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in Teresa and Elizabeth, please do not vote for condominiums, pensioners, large families and young people. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Hohn Krisztina is next for two minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-16-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but let's just hear each other out. It's amazing that you can't hear the words of the speaker. And I ask the Vice President with respect... [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's no use laughing. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because I believe they rarely meet, or they may not see each other so often, and they have a lot to talk about, I understand that, but in this Parliament, the opposition has been elected by the people, they have the right to say what they think, and we have the right to hear it. Thank you very much. [[Interventions and applause in the ranks of the opposition and the independent.]]
u2018-10-16-102	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll do it on public demand, though it's a little different. A few weeks ago, we adopted the climate change strategy, the climate strategy, here in Parliament, which would be about trying to use as little energy as possible, releasing as little harmful material as possible, and to do so, it is a key element to improve the level of energy saving and energy efficiency in our homes. The Hungarian people did not have a chance to do so, because the money that the Union was planning and sending to Hungary for energy efficiency renovations was spent on insulation, heating modernisation and the like of the buildings of public institutions themselves and of Fidesz-near businesses. For the Hungarian people, about a year. Out of 200 billion forints, there was virtually not a penny, or a few billion maximums, which will be squashed within half a day in the framework of the warm home contest. You can see that there is a demand for it, and this demand is again met by house savings. So if you were serious about what János Áder said for a moment or I don't know how much you agree with him, because Viktor Orbán didn't even deserve to pay attention, and don't scribble and talk to Zsolt Semjén, so that if you were to think a little bit seriously about the need for energy efficiency renovations for private households, as well as for Hungarian families, that there should be a real reduction, not the political fraud, the propaganda that you have put in place here in the last few years, if you use less energy, you will have to pay less, and to do so you will have to renew the totally ageing, anti-modern Hungarian housing stock, and this, yes, you also need housing savings banks, and you also need to give money sent from the Union to people for this purpose, and you will not steal it and make it your own. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tamás Harangozó applied for a proper speech from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I am very sad that we really see here today that you are making fun of the opposition representatives who are taking part in this debate, and you believe that we are being laughed at, and here you are laughing at hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, with whom you are actually doing it in one day to screw out of their hands the opportunity that very, very, very many families lived in this country 21 years ago, you know, just those who are given 5-10 and 20 thousand forints a month only to set aside, fairly taking care of their own lives, the future of their children, to save some money and, say, renovate their apartments every four or five years, or perhaps, as a part of themselves, put into credit, or maybe buy a new apartment, somehow start their children in life. This proposal considers it to be the most important reason for making an extra profit for ugly banks, and you are not bringing it in to Parliament to change this; we are not looking here today, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time as at the same time at the same time at the same time as at the expense of small people and families. No! You will take this opportunity away from the people, and obviously in the coming weeks and months we will find out which fidesz minister or oligarch would like to transfer this money to his business. You know, there was a debate here last night that was closely related to this topic, housing, foreign exchange lending, and I also said that it is perhaps good for Members of Parliament to face the fact that 140 thousand families are directly involved in implementation in Hungary today, and 30-40 thousand of them are evicted. Do you know how much extra profit the Hungarian banking system had last year? 700 billion forints, 700 billion forints! [[12.10]] I understand your friends have already bought into these banks. But do you really think that eviction can't be suspended, by the way? For example, can't this banking system afford to keep 30-40,000 people with their family and kids out of the street for the next year and a half because they need the money? The hundred billion-dollar, almost a thousand billion-dollar extra profit for the banks? Is that how you stand on people's side? And besides, when it comes to arguing about it, in the Legislative Committee, that's exactly the law that was debated if you could call it a debate, which would take away even this small opportunity from people? We understand, we know exactly what will happen to the 700 billion-dollar extra profit: bank leaders buy luxury private jets [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] That's what's happening, and they're taking turns flying your party president, the Prime Minister, to watch different football matches on his private trips. The money's coming here for free! But it's not free! The cost of this is paid daily by the 30-40 thousand plus 140,000 debtors and the family who are about to be executed and evicted, whose fat these banks produce the extra profit. And you do nothing but defend the indefensible, that while Viktor Orbán was still a few years ago, we know exactly that he did fly to various soccer matches, only on low-cost or charter flights, now he does the same for free on the luxury jet of his billionaire banker buddies. That's all that's changed in Hungary. I think it is deeply outrageous, and if you do not feel corruption in this, fellow Members, you are probably unaware of the meaning of the word. That's it. We ask you not to vote in favour of this proposal. We're asking you to be Members of Parliament, not Fidesz executives, not KDNP nods. The vast majority of you are individual representatives. In their own constituency, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are now desperate and often scolding about Hungarian politics and the Parliament and, obviously, the government in the first place, because this is happening to them again. Please be reasonable and have the courage to say no to the wishes of an oligarch. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-16-106	From the group of the LMP, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This debate has been going on for more than three hours now, and I am forced to appeal again to the rapporteur, Mr Bánki Erik, with a request. About an hour and a half ago, I asked eight specific questions, each of the opposition groups gave a very detailed opinion, and you should answer a lot of questions. Indeed, the Hungarian electorate finds that you are once again pushing through something, but they also experience that they do not accept their opinion. Yes, indeed, most of you are individual representatives. There was only one Fidesz MEP on this issue; the KDNP had no opinion, its 30 minutes intact. I would ask the rapporteur not to try to answer the questions in the closing words for 3-4 or 5 minutes, obviously that is completely impossible, but to use the 24 minutes remaining in the debate. I suspect, by the way, that KDNP obviously does not have an opinion on this issue, which, by the way, affects millions of people, since there are now 1.5 million contracts on the market; then ask for KDNP's time; perhaps in the 54 minutes available, you will have a chance to at least answer the questions that opposition factions have formulated. Thank you.
u2018-10-16-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Arató is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-109	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz and KDNP, I am now turning to you specifically because, at the beginning of the debate, I suggested that the rapporteur withdraw this proposal because he could not in any way justify that this would make any sense in the public interest. Here, opposition representatives have demonstrated in detail in this debate that this proposal does not serve anyone's interests, except for a very narrow circle. It is not in the interests of young people who cannot save; it is not in the interests of older people, for whom this is the only way to save money for the renovation of apartments; it is not in the interests of condominiums; it is not in the interests of the budget, because the amount that can be saved will cause much more loss than the loss of this savings on the market. Therefore, this proposal is not good for anyone. The country is not good, it has no economic rationality, but it is also socially deeply unfair and unacceptable. It has also turned out that we have also proven that, in the legal sense, it has been submitted and pushed through this House on the basis of which it is not possible to make a fair decision on important issues. But I see that the authors did not bother to defend their proposal. I see that you have not spoken to him, and have not supported him, and have been protected by your representatives. Therefore, I am no longer asking you, but I ask you as Members, and I call your attention to the fact that here we all have individual responsibility for your vote in political and moral terms, and now you must prove that you do not represent a narrow oligarchic circle here in Parliament, not a leadership will, but the voters to whom you refer. Think about the interests of this proposal in your constituency. In your constituency, who asked for this? Who sent you here to Parliament to eliminate the house savings to take away the possibility of saving people? Think about who you represent here in Parliament today, when you vote. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see I'm waiting for Antal Rogán, but he won't come in. Then I would like to speak specifically to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, because if we ask questions about family matters, he answers them most of the time. I'd like to give you the data I gave you in my lead speaker. Today there are 1 756 905 couples in Hungary. 483 487 couples live together in partnership with each other. Number of families without children 1 027 719. Children and non-children together are 2 743 338 families. Basically, we can say that these families are taking away the possibility of self-care today. And I would like to draw attention to what they refer to as the effectiveness of the COS programme, and all opposition representatives have said that we do not have a problem with the CSOK programme itself, but that we should broaden the scope and scope of the support. 3.2 percent of the 90,000 families are families who have taken on a child and families who will now want to have children. I don't think the government can give up almost 3 million families. If this law is passed today, it can be said after today that you have given up on the Hungarian families who are raising children and have given up on the Hungarian families who want to raise children in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue the debate. Member László Varga asked for the floor from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here at the end of the debate, although it is very difficult to call a debate a process where only opposition representatives give their views, so here at the end of the debate I find that only one Member from Fidesz has said his opinion and no one from KDNP has said it. The author was not so bold as to conflict our views in the debate, but, as is likely to be a good fidesz custom, he will then distribute the opposition within the framework of the author's closing, thus making hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens appear to be pointing back and referring to various horse-zunges. It's not unprecedented, but it's still shocking in a case of this magnitude. In other words, the proposal will no longer be withdrawn, it is very clear, although we have asked you to do so several times in the last few hours. My colleague Gergely Arató put it very correctly, there is only one thing that can now be done at this stage of the process: we ask you not to vote for this proposal. It would be unprecedented during their eight-and-a-half-year governance, but I would also ask you to think about it, and you have been authorized by your constituents to think about it. What can people who are still waiting in a financial institution, if any, for housing savings contracts to be concluded now until this law enters into force? [[12.20]] They should also serve their interests here in this Parliament, and you should, and should not do, in a dictatorship, through the parliament, break down one of the very important legs of the housing support system, a very important leg that could be used most widely and in most ways. This is unworthy, unacceptable. I would therefore ask you not to support this proposal, and, in particular, I would like to ask you to let me speak a little bit of home to my fellow Members from Borsodi and Miskolc. I am quite sure that this proposal also causes very serious anger in our narrower Patriots, which is certainly contrary to the interests and aims of the people of East Hungary. You can't choose not to be the first, not to make decisions over your heads, not to make decisions like that. So once again, we ask you to vote no to this proposal, so let us stop this dictatorship together. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to the burden of time, but within the framework of a two-minute speech, that Congressman Bence Tordai is coming. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll tell you what that means in practice for a big family, a family with three children. Pledging housing savings funds means you're taking a million and a half forints from them in four years. Looks like Fidesz has started a policy of austerity. You started talking about some kind of economic crisis coming up here, and all that's happening is that you've gone to the election, and then the money from the EU doesn't fall because you're stealing it. We do not need austerity, we need to take money away from people, we need to increase incomes, we need to leave house savings and we need to give people basic income to have a chance to create a home, to provide a healthy home for themselves and their families. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-16-116	Thank you. I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will now ask Mr Bánki Erik, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We've been through a long, but not very varied debate. In the last nearly three and a half hours, one thing from the opposition benches has become apparent: you are playing a sheet music. [[Moraj, intervention in opposition benches. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Soros! Migrant! The president's ringing the bell.]] During my 21-year parliamentary term, I am used to the fact that if foreign banks or multinational companies are affected by any legislative amendment that we make in the Hungarian Parliament, the representatives of the MSZP are the first to stand up and protect the interests of multinational and foreign banks until their nails break. Let us speak clearly, fellow Members. You are not talking about the protection of the Hungarian people here, you are concerned about the financial institutions, you are concerned about the credit institutions who have been marketing and marketing this profitable construction over the past few years. Let's be honest, let's talk openly to each other. I'm not talking about talking so much about vegetables and nonsense during the debate, which I've even listened to has been very tiring, let alone interpretation. They talked about crashing the whole system, talking about stealing the savings. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Have you even read the proposal? Do you have any idea what they're saying? They talk about the theft of a thousand billion forints when this legislation clearly refers to the fact that from the date of its entry into force, the state has not given support to savings in housing savings. No existing contract, no contract in force, will be affected by this legislation. What are you talking about? What are you talking about, the collapse of the market, the abolition of the construction? No one's gonna stop this construction. The banks or financial institutions may have complained to you that this arrangement will cease. No! I must make it clear to you that this legislation does not refer to the termination of this arrangement by any sentence. The institutions that have marketed this until now may continue to market the same scheme after the entry into force of the legislation. The only thing that's not going to happen is that there won't be 30 percent state aid. Yeah, please, didn't these institutions bother to turn investors' money around and achieve a result that could bring concrete, meaningful returns on these investments? Oh, that it can't work without state support, because it's not the right professionals sitting there, or did they roll hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people's money with the wrong humility and devotion? Oh, that's the problem, please? ! Then let's talk about this, so don't speak falsely about the protection of the Hungarian people, while trying to represent rock-hard economic and market interests! No one has ever spoken with a single sentence from the pro-government seats, either now or in the Commission's debates, that the money that has gone from the budget to housing savings banks, and what has so far gone through the housing savings banks to the people who have been saving or saving money for renovation or purchase, would be lost. No. I have confirmed this in my expo myself, in the committee debate, that the money that will be withdrawn from the support of the housing savings banks, that money is one-on-one... [[Antal Rogán arrives in the Chamber and takes his place. Intercoms, applause in the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-16-118	Fellow Members! They are not sitting on one side of the arena, they are sitting in the Hungarian Parliament! Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This also shows how much opposition representatives are interested in what I am saying in the close of my authors. So let's be clear and open, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing more than you trying to represent hard-core market interests, otherwise you wouldn't have said so much nonsense, you wouldn't have talked about these savings disappearing, or that someone would want to take these money away, that this construction would collapse. In fact, it has been said that there will be a financial chaos, and what will happen to people's savings so far, who will protect them. If they had dealt with this issue a little bit, they would know exactly that all the deposits that people have paid into these savings funds so far are protected by the National Deposit Protection Fund. You are aware that in ten years, after saving up to 240 000 per year in the construction, the maximum state aid of 72 thousand forints will barely exceed 3 million forints, and the Deposit Protection Fund will protect them up to 30 million forints in this case. So it is out of the question that any damage or loss to people could result from the adoption of this bill. There is only one thing, ladies and gentlemen, that comes from the adoption of this bill: the extra profit that the banks and financial institutions have taken from state aid so far, not only from private payments, but also from public support, since there are funds that have lost hundreds of millions and billions of contributors, so there is only one thing that will happen that this money will not then migrate to these credit institutions, but to Hungarian people. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I ask everyone to take their seats, place their cards, and make sure that they are properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The T/1654 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1654. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, 1 against and 8 abstentions. We now come to the next meeting between Hungary and the Kingdom of Thailand to the University of Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya... [[Delightful, applause in the opposition benches.]] Thank you; that's what they call it. [[Defiance.]] T/1657 on the publication of the Agreement on the operation of the Tan Gate with the Buddhist College in Hungary. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1657. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[12.30]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 155 votes, 10 votes and 8 abstentions. The following is the information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2017 and the report on the adoption of the report entitled H/1645 on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/1645. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 125 votes, 49 votes against and no abstentions. We now have H/1487 on the defence of Hungary's sovereignty and the rejection of the slanders against Hungary. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 1 was proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment and the amendment summarised for the proposal was not tabled, we will decide on the text of the proposal for a decision submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/1487. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 129 votes in favour, 26 votes in favour and 18 abstentions. Next up is the 1996 CXIII on housing savings banks. T/2600 on the amendment of Act T/2600. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/260/5 of T/260/4 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2600/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the summary amendment by 125 yeses, 49 votes not, without abstention. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/2600. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill 125 yes, 49 no votes, without abstention. [[Gergely Harvester: Hogwash! Shame!]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/805, by László Varju and his fellow Members, on the amendment of Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour and other related laws. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill in a series of 52 yeses, 118 votes and no abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members, T/961. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill in a series of 48 yeses, 121 non-votings and no abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members, T/1378 on the promotion of minimum health conditions by abolishing certain privileges for political leaders. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the bill into consideration by 50 yes, 122 no votes and no abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members, H/1509, entitled "Involvement of Hungary in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in order to restore democracy." A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 44 yeses, 127 votes against, and no abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Congressman Andrea Varga-Damm, LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. T/872. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill in a series of 48 yeses, 123 votes and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[12.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I call on my fellow Members who are leaving the Chamber to do so as soon as possible so that we can continue our work in order to take care of their urgent official affairs. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Thank you very much for your understanding and cooperation, and we will continue our work. A general debate on the proposal for a decision to declare Székelys a Hungarian ethnic group will follow up until closure. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/2158. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. First, I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur on the agenda. You have a 30-minute window, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-121	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 October 2018, the Committee on Justice of the Parliament discussed the designation of the Szeklers as a local ethnic group H/839. The EESC has decided to submit a proposal for a decision on this subject, following an initiative No 1 and on the basis of a request from Mr Speaker. On 28 June 2017, Barna Váradi, a private individual, presented an initiative to declare the Szeklers native to Hungary. The initiative was validated by a decision of the National Election Committee of 25 July 2017, which was endorsed by the Order of the Curia of 7 November 2017. Within the deadline for signing, the initiative was supported by more than a thousand Hungarian citizens and voters who claim to be members of the Szekler nationality, who have the right to vote in the elections of local government representatives and mayors. The NVB decision on the outcome of the signature verification increased to legal force on 10 July 2018. During the course of the procedure, the National Election Committee asked for the conditions for the establishment of an indigenous ethnic group, and attached the resolution of the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to its decision. In the resolution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, President László Lovász explained that the Institute of Minority Research, which is competent in the field of social sciences, did not support the declaration of Székelyek as a native ethnic group. He did not support it in view of the fact that the Szekler identity consciousness is rather a specific territorial community identity, which defines itself as part of the Hungarian nation, within which it is distinctly regional. The prevailing historical, archaeological, ethnographic and linguistic positions regard the Szeklers as part of the modern Hungarian nation in an ethnocultural sense. Accordingly, the Academy does not recommend the official recognition of Szeklers as Hungarian nationalities. Barna Váradi, who eventually did not come to the meeting, was invited by the Judicial Committee to attend his meeting and could not speak. In the debate, opposition representatives missed the oral addition of the written opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, despite the fact that the written opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was detailed, prudent and thorough. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Justice has adopted the resolution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and on the basis of which it proposes to the National Assembly not to support the declaration of the Hungarian community of Szeklers as a indigenous ethnic group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask Mr. Miklós Soltész to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Your time frame is 30 minutes, please.
u2018-10-16-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government does not support and, of course, joins the Judicial Committee in its presentation; in many respects. One aspect is clear: we not only take note of the position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but also agree with it, we admit it, and we know that the Szeklers consider themselves and confess themselves to the Hungarian nation, and that is what we consider them in Hungary in the past centuries and in the past decades. I would add that, thank God, there are five ethnic advocates here, and one of them is also a representative, that in Hungary 13 indigenous nationalities are registered, and with them the relationship, the work and the coexistence are clear, and Hungary's Fundamental Law clearly stated that they are the indigenous nationalities of Hungary. I add that both the subsidies and the cooperation with the Hungarian Parliament, the government and the Hungarian people are growing stronger and higher. And then I would say, very briefly, a fear that those who have asked for this declaration to be an entire indigenous nationality may have been well-intentioned, but then it differs not only from the idea of the Academy of Sciences, but also from the idea of the whole nation consciousness, but I hope very much that you do not have ethnobiznis behind this thing... and I would like the support that, once again, I stress, others will receive and rightly receive, they would like to take out some piece of it. Once again, we do not support what the applicants have submitted to the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Tamás Herczeg. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-125	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The resolution proposal before us has a very important message for our Szekler brothers. We think of them as a community separated from all Hungarians, separate from all Hungarians, belonging to other ethnic groups or as members of our common nation, the Hungarian national body, that is, the Hungarian ethnic group. Dear fellow Members, The rules governing the designation of a ethnic group as an indigenous ethnic group are laid down in the laws on the rights of nationalities and on the referendum procedure. The Act on the Rights of Nationalities provides for the possibility to recognise other nationalities than those currently listed in the Annex to the current Act as indigenous ethnic groups. One individual, alive with the possibility given by the law, collected more than a thousand signatures to declare the Szeklers a native ethnic group in Hungary. The National Election Committee, which is competent in the field, has contacted the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to take a position on the initiative to declare the Szeklery a native ethnic group. As Dr. Imre Vejkey said, the professional opinion of the Research Centre for Social Sciences of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which is competent in the field, does not support the declaration of a native ethnic group, given that Székely identity is more of a specific territorial, community identity, which, I believe, is the most important thing in the resolution as part of the Hungarian nation, within which it is clearly and regionally defined. [[12.50]] And perhaps this definition is consistent with the opinion described, for example, by one of the authors of the Szeklerland website. He, living in the Szeklerland, writes that they are Hungarians too, i.e. we are Hungarians here within the Hungarian state boundaries, and we are Hungarians too, i.e. the Szeklerlands, only the Hungarians, i.e. the Szeklerland, are called Szekler. The Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin are therefore part of the united Hungarian nation, including the Szeklers, as Wikipedia for example states: the Szeklers are Hungarian-conscious and Hungarian-speaking ethnic groups. It is important that the Székely National Council also took a position on the subject and agreed with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences' position regarding the decision to be decided on. He also expressed his appreciation for the cultural policy conducted by the Hungarian government, which nurtures the spiritual and moral legacy of Elek Benedek, Sándor Kányádi, Sándor Kőrösi Csoma, János Kriza, Áron Márton, Kelemen Mikes, József Nyírő, Áron Tamási, and helps to preserve the treasures of Szekler folk culture. Ladies and gentlemen, In agreement with the author, the Fidesz faction does not support the declaration of the Szekler community as a indigenous ethnic group in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a decision to declare the Szeklers an indigenous ethnic group before us will not be supported by the Jobbik Group, for many reasons. Since the foundation of our party, we have been saying that the long-term survival of Hungarian communities abroad can only be the result of autonomy, territorial autonomy and cultural autonomy granted to the bloc and the sporadic. Our conviction and our experience in South Tyrol confirmed that the mother country should make autonomy the most important of its national policy goals. Together with the taxes and other revenues that remain on the ground, these communities would not only be able to catch up, but they could also be on a maintenance growth path, which would also be possible for them. Unfortunately, we know that the Hungarian government does not think that way, even if it communicates with this, i.e. with regard to autonomy. In itself, you have commendably increased the amount of money spent on foreign Hungarians over the last few years, which we welcome, of course, even though, in the way of distribution, we have criticised a lot of things in terms of the range of beneficiaries, in terms of their well-defined nature. However, on every occasion we have also drawn attention to the fact that money alone is not everything, it would be essential to surround the preservation of foreign Hungarians in public law. Obviously, the success of the various autonomy movements would have been more difficult, but we believe that in the last eight years there would have been plenty of time and way to do so, even in addition to caring for a good neighbourly relationship so important for you, to promote, if nothing else, the Szekler autonomy efforts, or at least in the international space, for example in the European Parliament, to draw attention to the 100th anniversary of Trianon, to the fact that the ethnic issue in the Carpathian Basin is not really solved anywhere to this day; even if the Romanians will use this lie in the next two or three years, it will also draw attention to Europe and the half of the world. Compared to this, the Fidesz Gyurcsányek voted down our better proposal to declare Trianon's centenary a commemorative year. Ladies and gentlemen, It must be a heartwarming feeling for many national-thinking Hungarians to read an initiative to declare the Szeklers an independent ethnic group, but the declaration of Szeklers as nationalities would have serious consequences for Transylvanian Hungarians and Szeklers. The idea is not new, because the Romanian communist dictator Nicolae Ceauşescu tried to share and weaken Transylvania's Hungarians by creating the independent Szekler people in the 1970s and 1980s, otherwise unsuccessfully. In addition to other security methods, this idea was not forgotten either after the change of regime in Romania. In 2011, Bucharest tried to artificially reduce the number and proportion of Hungarians. Fortunately, their plan failed this time. Of the 650-700 thousand Szeklers living in Transylvania, only a thousand declared themselves to be Szeklers before the questioners. Therefore, there is no need from the local community for this category of nationality, as the Szeklery sees itself as an integral part of the Hungarian nation. This is the case even if some have fought for this autonomy because of the existence and emphasis on their own identity. We do not want to debate their good intentions, but we can see that they have only the opinion of a dwarf minority. If this proposal, which lies before us, were to be given a majority here and now, we would create a reference and precedent for Romania to further reduce the already diminished Transylvanian Hungarians. We must not forget that the right to use Hungarian language in Romania is linked to the 20 per cent threshold, and in some settlements even the transfer of some people to the Székely ethnic group may put at risk Hungarian language rights on paper only in many cases, but at least on paper, the possibility of using language. Dear Parliament, In view of all of this, who can be in the interest of submitting a proposal with such content to the National Election Commission? The original initiative is an organization called the World Federation of Szeklers, which, however, only shows in its name a sign of any kind of community operation and global organisation. In fact, it's a group of friends in America, the United States of America, Texas. Of course, I would not discuss good intentions for them, nor would I discuss their commitment to the subject, but I would like to say in the most subtle terms that, at least, the expected consequences were not adequately considered when they presented their proposal or when the initiative was launched. Because later, in June 2017, an individual whose name has already been mentioned submitted this proposal to the National Election Committee, who has repeatedly attracted the attention of the authorities by his previous reckless and even counterproductive actions, by burning the Romanian flag, or by hanging the head of the Romanian people's uprising in 1848, Avram Iancut. However, for some mysterious reason, he continued to work for years as a Romanian tax authority employee. He is now fully discredited in national circles, changed his name, and unfortunately, in his overzealousness in a negative sense, he has now taken up this initiative. Dear fellow Members, We Jobbik think that, as we have already said today, the Szeklers demonstrated at the Szekler National Assembly in Székely, which began today 170 years ago, that they are part of the united modern civil Hungarian nation and are willing to defend our common affairs with weapons and blood. Therefore, we do not support their artificial separation, but rather our goal is to strengthen our belongings. This is why we proposed today that the 16th of October, the anniversary of the Székely National Assembly in Clayfalvi, be the day of Hungarian-Székely union 170 years ago. We hope that a real national consensus can finally be reached behind this initiative. To do this, I continue to ask for the government's support, and I have asked all parliamentary groups today, in the form of a formal letter, to join our proposal, which, in contrast to the motion before us, is to highlight the solidarity between Hungary and the Szeklery. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-128	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.00]]
u2018-10-16-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It must have been a speech because we are in favour of the resolution proposal before us, because it is in fact that Parliament is not declaring it, so obviously it was only a statement from my better fellow Member, because the KDNP Group supports this proposal for a resolution. Of course, we do not support the declaration of the Szeklers as a native ethnic group in Hungary, since the sky is blue, grass is green, and Szeklers are organic and inseparable parts of the Hungarian nation. I could close my speech here, because it is so natural that our Szekler brothers are part of the Hungarian nation, and we are with them here in the Carpathian Basin. I don't think that's even a question. The law on the rights of nationalities clearly regulates what the composition of the 13 nationalities in Hungary now looks like, who they are, and since 2014, their rights have been extended in terms of the fact that they can also provide a minority advocate or a parliamentary representative with a reduced quota, so that they have a right to influence the functioning of the National Assembly and the governance of the country. I have gathered a few credible opinions, as the opinion from Szeklerland on the proposal. For example, the president of the RMDSZ, Hunor Kelemen, said that I am a Szekler, but I am not a minority within the Hungarian nation, and I do not support the initiative. Or Zoltán Gazda said thank you for our part, it is enough for us that we are a minority in Romania, we do not want this status in Hungary as well. Obviously, it is clear that there were initiatives in the past, even after the change of imperium in 1918, when Szeklerland became the target of the national Homogenisation efforts of Romanian nationalism, or we remember when, after 1990, the censuses had to be marked in a separate box and only one could be marked to claim to be Hungarian or Szekler. Obviously, it is due to a kind of sharing attempt that must be resisted, and we must help our Szekler brothers by all means. I think that if we are talking about nationality policy or minority policy, then the Hungarian government, Bucharest, could give an example of the Hungarian national minority policy that we have experienced in the last 8 years, because by 2019 the amount of support for nationalities will be more than quadrupled, and we can also see from the census data that the number of people who claim to belong to nationality is constantly increasing. Here in the 2001 and 2011 censuses we can also see a 1.5-fold increase. This fourfold amount, the fourfold budgetary support, can also be used by national ethnic authorities to support local governments, support institutions, investment, civil society organisations, cultural programmes, native language camps or training teachers. The advocates help to do this so that the government can always find the weighting, the proportions, the good goals. I think that there is no need to explain why we do not support the declaration of Szeklers as a indigenous ethnic group in Hungary. I think we can assume good intentions in the initiative, but rather we think that there may be a kind of sharing attempt here. It is very important that we maintain the unity, we represent the unity that the Carpathian Basin, the Hungarian nation, has been united since 2010. My fellow Member, Jobbik, in recent days, this is the issue of who is voting with Gyurcs. You, along with Gyurcs, have not voted for the increase in national policy every year in the budget to increase the support of churches across the border, schools across the border. You have made such comments. I am pleased that we are now on a platform on this subject, and I am pleased that you believe that this proposal must go through, because this proposal states that Parliament does not declare the Szeklers an indigenous ethnic group. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Szeklery is part of the Hungarian nation. I could stop here and actually sit down. However, as a member of the Judicial Committee, I was there when this proposal for a resolution was drawn up by the committee, voted in favour and submitted to Parliament. I have said in this debate, and in fact this also applies to the subsequent item on the agenda, which is discussing something in a similar procedure regarding the recognition of the Russian nation as a native nationality, but I must say that it is not the same case. However, in one way or another, I must remember something and take this into account. I think that the procedure in which, in fact, without an on-the-spot hearing of the representative of the Academy, at the same meeting where the committee first discusses this is not good is already preparing the proposal for a resolution and presenting it immediately to Parliament. Imre Vejkey spoke correctly about it, because it was a very fair and legitimate process that it did not appear there, even though it was invited. This applies little to this agenda; what I have just said applies to both, but first and foremost to the second. However, I think that it may appear, let us say, that the representative of the initiators, his opinion may not be the same as the Academy's proposal, and in this connection it is necessary to consider in a longer process that, in such a proposal, the committee does not propose support or has a negative proposal before the Parliament, or is otherwise supportive. This must be a process that requires longer thinking and considerations. I think it's not the last time we're going to do this. This is clearly the jurisdiction of the Judicial Committee, so I said this to the Committee on Justice later, which is what I proposed that we come up with a methodology that is acceptable to the initiators in view of the sensitivity of the matter. We consider that any such initiative takes its initiative in good faith, and I put it this way. Of course, if there is any kind of ethno-bizism intent behind this, we will definitely reject it ourselves. But the main message of my speech, in addition to the procedural issues, is that, of course, we too believe that I myself would now confirm that the Székely is part of the Hungarian nation. We will make our decision accordingly. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am abstaining myself exceptionally from responding to the flat propaganda spoken by some of my fellow MEPs, and I am concerned about the merits of the matter, because it is indeed a matter of substance, I believe. Our firm position is that every Hungarian citizen has the right to cultivate his own cultural heritage and traditions, and in some way to receive state aid. So, of course, if in the Szeklery of Hungary, whether voluntarily or under duress, there is a desire for them to cultivate this tradition, then this is very appropriate, to be supported, there is no problem with that. However, the national minority law is about more than that, it gives much more rights and lays down strict conditions. There is no difference of opinion between us in this matter, if I understand correctly, either with the government side or with the other opposition parties. We find very strongly that in this case the position of the Academy of Sciences, the everyday experience, the will of the Szeklers in Hungary and Szeklerland are united. The Szeklers are Hungarians, part of the Hungarian nation, and, as such, cannot be separated or separated from the Hungarian nation in a cultural sense. We regard this effort not only as unfounded but also as particularly harmful. We do not want to support, we do not want to promote, we do not want to justify Romanian nationalism in any way. So I would like to say, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, that we support the Commission's proposal. Our position is that this initiative should be strongly rejected by the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have always stressed that it is extremely important for us to be able to separate national political issues from party politics, since party politics has no place on national policy issues. Despite the fact that everyone says so, it is typical that, even though we are talking about a matter of national politics, it is always said on the part of the governing parties that there is a freak, a political prick to the opposition. [[13.10]] I would very much ask you to try to minimize these when it comes to such important issues. On the other hand, I am very pleased that, on this issue, a whole national unity, a unified opinion is being formed, practically everyone from the government to DK agrees with what is being formulated in this particular proposal for a resolution before us. Of course, LMP agrees with this. We also believe, and it is quite clear that the Szeklers are part of the Hungarian nation, so we, of course, reject these efforts to try to post the Szeklers in Hungary as an indigenous ethnic group. I would add that I do not agree with some of my fellow Members, I do not think, I do not expect that there was good faith or good intentions behind those who launched this initiative. I think it's clear that there's a desire to share and a desire to disturb. This is how we look at this proposal, and I think we should be able to say it. There would be extremely serious political consequences for Szeklers if such a proposal could at all be launched in any way or be taken to a serious stage. We therefore fully support this particular proposal. I would add that we agree with the resolution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but in order to form an opinion, we would not need the resolution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, I think that is quite clear. I would like to make one more very brief comment, in Mr Szávay's speech before the agenda, he indicated that I would like to declare the start date of the Szekler National Assembly in Clayfalvi as a day of Hungarian-Szekler union in a proposal for a resolution. It sent this proposal, so the proposal for a decision has already been tabled. The LMP faction has already discussed it online quickly, and I would like to say here that we fully support it, we consider it a very important, very symbolic initiative, and the LMP faction will support it and will join this initiative. Thank you.
u2018-10-16-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to address Mr Imre Vejkey for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-137	In closing, I wanted to mention that I consider it extremely important that all pro-government and opposition groups unanimously insist that the Szeklery is part of the Hungarian nation. Thank you all very much. This is extremely important for the Hungarians of the disconnected territories. I would like to respond to what our colleague László Varga said, who said that if we had a rapporteur to listen to, we should also listen to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian Academy of Sciences gave a very detailed opinion in writing. A detailed opinion that was fully justified. That, compared to this, the author has different positions from the expert opinion, I believe that we must take into account the position of experts, the professional institution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and its written opinion, which is absolutely valid, and which I believe cannot be modified after the oral hearing, since it is adequate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr Sigmond Barna Paul applied. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment very briefly on the question as a Szekler. Above all, this may be noted that the Szeklers have established consensus in the Hungarian Parliament. I am very pleased about this, since the representatives of both the ruling parties and the opposition have expressed a similar position on this issue. I agree with my colleague Nacsa that there are some things that need not be explained, some things that need to be felt. Yet the law asks us, the legal system demands that we also explain what one feels. I think that in this respect the Hungarian ethnic law framework has passed a good test, because the position of the Academy has corrected this question, and it is very clear that the prevailing historical, archaeological, ethnographic and linguistic positions regard the Szeklers as an integral part of the modern Hungarian nation in the ethnocultural sense. So the Szeklers are Hungarians and dot; what our hearts say, the Academy has also conducted in a more cluttering language. In this sense, it went through the Hungarian legal system, the Hungarian legal system says the same thing that our hearts say: so the Szekler community in Hungary does not meet the legal conditions for the recognition of nationalities. Indeed, as has been said here by the speakers, there is no social support in Szeklerland or in Hungary for Szeklers to be an independent nationality. The Transylvanian, Hungarian political, civil and ecclesiastical organizations disagree with the declaration of nationality. Indeed, Romanian propaganda has already pulled out this card in connection with Trianon. I myself have often encountered this in my previous life, when we talked about the situation in Trianon or the situation in Transylvania, many people in Western Europe asked who the Szeklers were then, because there was propaganda, especially Romanian propaganda in the history books, or in the history books of propaganda or such purposes, they used this question to separate the Szeklers from Hungarians and to reduce the weight of Hungarians in Transylvania in this sense. So I served as Székely Man and Consul General in Székely Land, I always found that the Székelys were Hungarians. I have never seen any indication that the Szekler national identity or some special regional identity was defined against Hungarianism, it has always been defined within the Hungarians. It is also an important sign that many Szeklers have used the possibility of Hungarian citizenship, very many have accepted Hungarian citizenship after 2010, and each census has defined themselves as Hungarians. This is very important, it is also evidence of how they themselves view it or how we view it ourselves. Indeed, the Szeklers suffered much for their Hungarianness and for our Hungarianness. I, too, think that we are dealing with a minimum of ethnobiznis here, but it is possible that we are dealing with a conversion; the person who led to this proposal was not driven by good intentions and concern for the Szeklers. I support the positions of both the committee and the government and opposition parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-16-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2018-10-16-141	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Given the importance of the case, yes, not because we would disagree on the issue.
u2018-10-16-142	You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-143	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Szeklers are an integral part of the modern Hungarian nation, that is, we Hungarians in the motherland do not consider the Szeklers to be national. We do not consider it a nationality, because they are not a nationality to us, but a national part of the Hungarian cultural nation. A part of the nation that is an integral part of the Hungarians, a part of the nation that has been part of the 16th century since the Árpád era. It was part of the Kingdom of Hungary until the beginning of the century. It is a nation which, after the defeat of Mohács in 1526, became one of the state-created nations of the Transylvanian Princeship. Ladies and Gentlemen, They need to know that in Szeklerland, the special freedoms closely linked to military service and the Székely administration remained, even in spite of the defeat in Mohács, even after joining the Habsburg Monarchy. By 1876 after the settlement, the chair organization was replaced by an integrated integration into the system of the Hungarian Kingdom County. After Trianon, the Szeklers became the target of Romanian nationalism and Romanian Homogenisation efforts. The Szeklers were persecuted by the Romanians in accordance with Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the course of the 20th century, they reached the borders of the current Hungary in several periods. However, this does not change the fact that the Szeklers are an integral part of the modern Hungarian nation, so we Hungarians, as we have all said, do not regard them as a minority of nationality or nationality. Thank you once again for your unanimous support for this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a decision to declare the Russian community a national ethnic group in Hungary until closure. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/2159 On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. [[13.20]] First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-145	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 9 October 2018, Parliament's Committee on Justice discussed as a designated committee the designation of the Russian community as an indigenous ethnic group H/1515. Initiative No 1 and decision to submit a related proposal for a decision on the basis of a request from the Speaker. On 1 February 2018, István Döbrei, an individual, submitted an initiative on the declaration of the Russian ethnic group as an indigenous ethnic group in Hungary. The initiative was certified by a decision of the National Election Committee of 16 February 2018, which, in the absence of an appeal, also became legally binding on 5 March 2018. Within the deadline for signing, the initiative was supported by more than a thousand Hungarian citizens and voters who claim to belong to the Russian nationality and who have the right to vote in the elections of local government representatives and mayors. On 17 September 2018, the NVB decision on the outcome of the signature verification increased to legal force. During the course of the procedure, the National Election Committee asked the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences for a resolution on the existence of the conditions for being a resident ethnic group. President László Lovász explained in the resolution that the Institute of Minority Research of the Research Centre for Social Sciences, which is competent in the field, does not support the declaration of the Russian community as an indigenous ethnic group. According to the opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, although the Russians in Hungary have institutions for the maintenance of language and culture, the presence of a permanent resident ethnic group has not been justified for at least one century. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Judicial Committee invited István Döbrei to attend its meeting, who was invited to attend the meeting of the Committee and who was also allowed to speak. István Döbrei took the initiative in his speech and contested the opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that the presence of Russians in Hungary would be difficult to justify. On a point of order, the opposition members of the committee put forward the proposal that the Judicial Committee should not decide on this issue at the next meeting, and that the expert of the MTA should be heard orally. The point of order was not accepted by the Judicial Committee. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary, in its National Creed, declares that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors. In addition, it undertakes to cultivate and protect the language and culture of Hungarian ethnicities. In the case of the Russian community, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences also carried out an examination of the legal conditions necessary for the declaration of a Hungarian ethnic group, and concluded that these conditions do not exist in the present case. The Judicial Committee therefore proposes to this House not to support the declaration of the Hungarian community of Russians as an indigenous ethnic group. I ask you that the Justice Committee's decision, H/2159. A proposal for a decision is adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, to present the government's opinion. Do you know him? [[For signal:]] He's telling me.
u2018-10-16-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say very briefly, and thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The government also decided in this case not to support the declaration of the Russian ethnic group as an indigenous ethnic group. On the one hand, we acknowledge and accept the research and the clear position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which concerned other indigenous nationalities in the past. So it is clear that the Hungarian Government will continue to support the preservation of 13 indigenous Hungarian nationalities and nationalities as well as their further support, as included in the Fundamental Law. However, considering the fact that people of Russian nationality are living here in Hungary at some time or time, we can obviously help and support them through civil society organisations, and obviously we can also support their aspirations through the Russian Orthodox Church. I thank the rapporteur, the committee, for his opinion and for his resolution. That's what we're joining. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-16-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Tamás Herczeg. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-149	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a resolution before us raises a question requiring careful consideration, namely that the community of our fellow citizens living in Hungary, who claim to be Russian nationality, meets the legal and social sciences conditions of being a native ethnic group. On the one hand, we need to call on our laws on the rights of nationalities and on the other hand, on the referendum procedure, to answer the question formally. The National Rights Act, as stated in the previous proposal, provides an opportunity for further nationalities and nationalities to gain the status of the ethnic group established in Hungary, in addition to the nationalities listed in the Annex to the Act. According to the law on the rights of nationalities, nationality is any ethnic group established in Hungary for at least a century, which has a numerical minority among the population of the state, and is distinguished from the rest of the population by its own language, culture and traditions, as well as by a sense of belonging that aims to preserve all these, to express and protect the interests of their historically established communities. Dear fellow Members, As State Secretary Miklós Soltész said, there are currently 13 nationalities recognised by the state: Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian. The applicant wishing to become a indigenous ethnic group in Russia has successfully collected more than a thousand signatures under the nationality law with the right of individual citizens and with the possibility of the relevant legislation, with a view to the declaration of a native ethnic group living in Hungary, claiming to be Russians. In the course of the necessary procedural procedure, the National Election Committee, which is competent in the case, also turned to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and asked for its official position on the initiative to declare the Russian community an indigenous ethnic group. The professional opinion of the Institute of Minority Research of the Research Centre for Social Sciences of the Academy did not support the declaration of Russian nationality as a indigenous ethnic group in Hungary. The academic resolution referred to the current definition of nationality law, according to which one of the elements and basic conditions of nationality status is that the rest of the Hungarian population should be distinguished from their own language, culture and traditions. The resolution considers it to be proven that the Hungarian Russian community has institutions for the preservation of linguistic and cultural traditions that strengthen the sense of belonging. So far, it would be okay, but another essential condition of the legal definition is that they have been living in Hungary for at least a century as a resident population, and cannot be justified. On the basis of the data and statistics outlined in the professional resolution, it can be said that Article XX does not apply to: During the century, Russians came to Hungary several times during migration waves. All these factors do not exhaust the category of indigenous ethnic group presence in the territory of our country for at least a century. [[13.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the academy resolution presented in this case, Fidesz's parliamentary group, in agreement with the rapporteur, does not support the declaration of the Russian community as a national ethnic group in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2018-10-16-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to the previous item on the agenda, I would like to present the opinion of the Jobbik faction to a different item, as, unlike the Székely, a group of Russian cultures living in Hungary now wishes to define itself as a classic national minority, which is certainly an existing community, as it has been revealed by the very detailed speech of my Fidesz fellow Member who spoke before me about the legal background, especially in recent decades, people with Russian mother tongue and culture have actually arrived in Hungary. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a distinction that is extremely important and important for the policy of national minorities as well as for the whole Hungarian national policy, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the classic autochton communities, i.e. national minorities and autochton communities, would do so here because there are communities that do not have, so to speak, a mother state, but are an autochton group in Europe, such as, say, the sorbs in Germany or the Frisek in Germany, or even the Bretons or even the Catalans, so these autochton communities and national minorities are fundamental values of European cultural heritage and the fundamental values of existing European diversity. From this, we need to make a clear distinction between those immigrant communities that have evolved in recent decades in Western Europe and Hungary, which in this case also applies to the Russian-speaking community that is the subject of the resolution proposal. On the one hand, I would like to explain why the inclusion of the Russian community as a national minority in relation to domestic nationalities would be of concern to the 13 nationalities recognised so far, and I would also like to say that from the Jobbik faction, I belong to the German ethnic population of Hungary as well as the well-known. When the Hungarian Parliament voted almost unanimously in 1993 for the Act of the Year on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities, the law was, according to terminology, about a national and ethnic minority, which was then listed in the 2011 National Rights Act currently in force, the same 13 recognized nationalities became taxative. I would like to refer a little back to why this happened at the time when the first free government of the Hungarian Parliament, led by József Antall, began to prepare this: because, on the one hand, in the preparatory process, they asked the national minority communities that they wished to be subject to the forthcoming nationality law. Here I would refer, for example, to the domestic Jewish community, which was asked about this at the time, and the then Jewish community leaders indicated that they did not wish to fall under the nationality law because they wished to define themselves as religious communities. This is why they were not already included in the taxative nationalities in 93, even though Jewish communities are a national minority in a number of European countries. Why this 13? You can ask the question in hindsight. This obviously has very serious historical, cultural and ethnic traditions in Hungary. Obviously, quite a lot of nationalities in Hungary have been included in these 13 nationalities eventually because we are talking about a process where, at first, we were only talking about recognising 5-6 nationalities, if we look back at those times, and I, even though I was very young as a competitor, but I had a little insight into this process, at that time domestic national policy was a very important aspect. So, obviously, the 13 national minority communities in Hungary were very often included, indeed indigenous nationalities in Hungary, which, in terms of their number, were very low nationalities, but the Hungarian National Assembly had already decided, quite rightly, that because of the total interests of the Carpathian Basin, it was important that the national minority law should apply to them as well. And in the very serious threats at European level, at national level, I see that, in particular, in the different regions of the European Union and the Council of Europe, it is very important to distinguish between the autochton and allochton minorities, because there is a very serious issue in which political forces calling for the rights of classic national minorities in Central and Eastern Europe here must finally take their place in a pan-European discourse within the European Union as well, because the European Union has outsourced the legislation on their rights to the Council of Europe for the time being, and only an intergroup in the European Parliament with very few powers is dealing with this issue, and sometimes there are decisions in the European Parliament that do not require anyone to do so. Again, I would like to remind you that our European citizens' initiative, Minority SafePack, was rejected in the first round by the European Commission because the European Commission dared to write down in its reply that issues concerning the rights of classic national minorities do not fall within the competence of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore think that this decision obviously also means that we are trying to maintain this serious distinction between classic national minorities and immigrant communities, and I am also very pleased that, on behalf of the government, Mr Secretary of State has then indicated that, of course, the Russian-speaking community clearly has a way of providing support for their cultural and other activities to the Hungarian State by other means, and it is also right that this has been said in the debate. In conclusion, we support this proposal for a resolution and the Jobbik faction will vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2018-10-16-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. You have the floor, please.
u2018-10-16-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I believe that the position and scientific position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences should be the guiding principle for us on this issue. The Academy of Sciences says that the Russian community in Hungary does not fully comply with the legal conditions for the recognition of nationalities, although they have the institutions for the maintenance of language and culture, but the presence of a permanent resident ethnic group for at least one century is difficult to justify. In the course of the 20th century, their presence was more due to various migratory flows. I believe that, and on behalf of the KDNP fraction, we will join the Commission's proposal and the other groups that have spoken so far, that we also support this proposal for a decision. Here, I think it is a professional and scientific issue, which is why it is important to take the position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences as a guide, which is absolutely lifelike, but it is important to say that apart from the members of the 13 indigenous nationalities in Hungary, we naturally consider all non-resident ethnic groups living in Hungary as a value, so in Hungary anyone, including the Russian minority, can use their mother tongue without restriction in private life, as well as in the form of a civil organisation and church. I, too, had the opportunity and the good fortune to experience that there is a very serious community life in the Russian Orthodox Church community, dealing with young people, I think that we should also consider this as a value, and here the government is also giving priority support to these communities. [[13.40]] Here, Mr President, he also spoke about the Minority SafePack initiative, which I think is worth a word when it comes to the Commission's response or rejection. Obviously, this is the initiativer's own decision and strategy, but I think that the Minority SafePacket, since legislation, EU legislation, does not provide for a deadline for submission to the European Commission, which is now only seven months old. On the one hand, because we see that they prefer to support immigrants [[Gergely Harvesto: Thank God we're on the subject.]] Instead of an indigenous minority of 50 million people living in Europe. We see that this issue has never been put on the agenda in the past period, has never reached their threshold of urgency, and they do not address this issue. I also suggested to the initiators that it is worth waiting for the new Commission to stand up, in case we will experience a more proactive and more inclusive position. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of discussion here in the last two days, and there have been a lot of heated debates, so let me start with a surprising turn of events that President Vejkey was very correct when he mentioned that I had a point of order in the committee on justice. Indeed there was. Although there are two similar procedures and processes before us today, there are two initiatives, but there would be very little equality between the two. In the previous one, which was about registering the Szeklers as an indigenous ethnic group, I think that the speakers agreed very clearly: the Szeklers are part of the Hungarian nation. However, I think that this is a different matter in certain aspects. I had some procedural observations and, in part, I think I have some substantive comments. Not for me, but for this presentation, the initiative has appeared, as Mr President rightly said, and the initiative has put on the table some aspects that I think it is right to say here in Parliament. On the one hand, I would like to say that, since there was the initiative at that time, I maintain my position exponentially that it would be more fortunate to discuss such a sensitive, sensitive matter in such a way that the process of preparation is longer. In addition to the hearing by the initiating committee, the views of the Academy could also be heard orally, their oral additions could be heard, these could be conflicted, to see compliance with the legal conditions, let us say, after the conflicted positions, and accordingly to present the committee's proposal for a resolution to Parliament in a longer process. This is what my point of order was for, but I have remained a minority in this regard. So what I can actually say in this debate is that I do not think it would be a good idea if, now, the debate was closed at a next session, the Parliament had already decided on this initiative. I'd consider it better if we came up with these arguments. By the way, I would consider it fortunate for any ethnic group who raises worthy arguments, meets the legal requirements and comes to the meeting of the Judicial Committee with the initiative and presents them there. So I think that this is not a specific issue, but my position on the protection of minorities in general. In particular, I say this that we are right to be sensitive to issues of cross-border Hungarians that the neighbouring countries may do in domestic politics. Rightfully, we have reason to act in order to protect Hungarian communities across the border, where appropriate, for example, there are now events in Ukraine, as an example. I think that if we look forward to this, then it is important for us to be sensitive to such questions, and especially that the initiative has put some points on the table, which has certainly made me think. One is that in 1917, more than a hundred years ago, it was partly because of the events of the World War and partly because of Russian domestic political processes, after which it was a serious local Russian minority and nationality in Hungary. Of course, this may be contrary to your opinion or to the opinion of the Academy, as it is not yet considered to be a native ethnic group. However, it was also placed on the table that the censuses that took place during the Monarchy did not indicate the Russian ethnicum, ethnic group, nation or ethnicity separately, so, in any case, they could actually claim to belong to other ethnic groups. In any case, I see both of them as a aspect that requires longer consideration, conflict of opinion and much more sensitive treatment. Once again, that would have been my opinion and would have existed even if it were about any ethnicity or ethnic group. We're discussing the Russian people's group right now. I think that the initiative has correctly laid down these arguments, that I would have been curious at the committee meeting about the reaction of the Academy to this, and I would have made my personal decision in this respect with a calmer heart. Obviously, in the coming days, our faction will also make this decision, and I hope that, until then, we can put this decision on a broader basis, in what way, I do not yet know. I therefore do not dispute the legal procedure of the committee, and I consider it particularly fair that President Vejkey has also reported on my point of order here, but I am maintaining my opinion, and I think that it would be better to decide on this proposal to the Parliament at a later date after another hearing. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-157	I have to start with a picnic comment for Congressman Nacha. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all ethnic groups living in Hungary have come here with different migration flows, including the Hungarians, and for the sake of Congressman Brenner Koloman, I also say the Germans in Hungary. Thus, it is not possible to distinguish on this basis in itself, and it was wise to do so even in democracy when it was not set as a criterion, and they did not create some kind of rigid contrast between indigenous and non-indigenous minorities, but set a very clear rule on when a minority counts as an accepted national minority in Hungary. We are in trouble, and that is why we also supported Mr Varga's point of order at the committee meeting, because there is no clear decision in this matter, in the case of the Russian minority, or, more specifically, the Academy takes a clear position, and this clear resolution should be respected by Members of Parliament, but we also have doubts about this resolution, or I might say, questions. We regret that, at the committee meeting, we were not able to find reassuring answers to these questions, which would probably have helped us to make decisions easier. For it is true, for example, a previous academic resolution states that, from 17-18 onwards, some of the Russian prisoners of war arrived here not only as prisoners of war, but also settled down in Hungary. It is also clear that there was no such category in the censuses at the time of the former Monarchy, for political reasons, I could say that there were no wise political reasons, but, for example, the history of the Russian Orthodox Church, if you have already mentioned it, was earlier in Hungary than this date. So, there are still issues to be clarified here, and I can also say what Mr President has just said, that the Democratic Coalition still needs further consideration to establish a final position on this issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-158	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute and proper speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. [[13.50]] I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-159	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Soltész, State Secretary, for supporting the presentation on behalf of the Government, thank you also to Tamás Herczeg, a speaker representing the Fidesz fraction, and also to Lőrinc Nacsa, the speaker of the KDNP faction, for the support. Mr Koloman also gave a very detailed, thorough speech, thank you for his support. As a representative of the German minority in Hungary, he said why this is important, why he considers it important to adopt this proposal for a resolution. For my part, I believed his speech to be credible. Thank you, too, László Varga and Gergely Arató, on behalf of the MSZP and DK faction, who said that the decision on the part of their fractions still requires further consideration on this issue, and the only reason that this was actually led back to the fact that the national position of István Döbrei at the committee meeting was different from that of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Once again, I would like to stress to the groups that still need consideration that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has given a very detailed opinion, please review it. I believe that, if you look at this opinion, you will find a reassuring answer to why the President of the Academy of Sciences has given us such a resolution, and I believe that, as in the courts, the parties obviously represent their own interests, but if it is a technical question, and I can say that this is a professional-scientific question on which the Academy of Sciences has taken a position, then an expert will be appointed in the court, and we have also appointed an expert in the person of the Academy of Sciences, who has taken an appropriate position on this issue. The Judicial Committee has made its decision on the basis of the opinion of the Academy of Sciences and we ask that the proposal for a decision be supported. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It follows now that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals is to follow. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/2164. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that animal welfare is also an EU value, as set out in Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that differences in the legislation of the Member States relating to animal testing may impede trade in products and substances the development of which involves animal testing, the European Parliament and Council Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes was published on 22 September 2010. The provisions of the Directive had to be transposed into international law by the Member States by 10 November 2012 and applied from 1 January 2013. The Commission then assessed the adequacy of the transposition of the Directive for all Member States and found shortcomings and initiated proceedings in nine Member States. In the autumn of 2016, the Commission launched a pilot procedure and a infringement procedure in 2017. In order to ensure legal harmonisation and to clarify the application of domestic law, it is necessary to amend the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Animals to this effect, which is now on Parliament's table. Dear House, In order to conclude the EU infringement procedure, the bill we are discussing now ensures that only breeders, suppliers and users who are authorised by the animal protection authority can operate and, if the breeder, supplier and user no longer meet the conditions laid down in the authorisation, the animal protection authority may withdraw the authorisation. As a result of the amendment, the provisions on legal consequences are separate from those on the authorisation of animal testing and the consequences can also be applied to breeders and suppliers. Dear Parliament, The bill contains more clarification in order to comply with the directive. The concept of animal testing is modified to cover the use of animals for scientific purposes, whether known or unknown, invasive or non-invasive. Similarly, animal testing may be authorised for the protection of the natural environment if it is for the health and welfare of humans and animals. In the case of breeding, breeding, housing and care, as well as the methods used in the experiment, the legislation currently provides for an attempt to improve methods, in order to avoid animal pain, suffering, pain or permanent harm to health, or to reduce as little as possible. According to this amendment, the methods should be improved to the extent possible. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposed bill contains only amendments for harmonisation purposes in order to complete the infringement procedure. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment of the Animal Protection Act by their contributions and their votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Eternal Gandhi's quote, perhaps most often expressed many times and many times, is a true reflection of the greatness and moral development of a nation in its way of dealing with animals. And it's true. Therefore, as a representative of Jobbik, and as a private opinion, I share the view that the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council should be amended accordingly. In the first century, there should be no experiment on living animals, especially with the cruelty and the purposes for which these experiments are conducted today worldwide. The European Union, I can say, may even be at the forefront at global level of banning animal testing for cosmetic purposes at least five years ago, but there are still a very large number of experiments for military industrial purposes and, of course, for health purposes. And in many cases, it has been scientifically proven that these experiments are not really justified, they do not produce significant results that could then be used by medicine. Yes, there are cases where, at the moment, it is essential, and no one disputes that, in order to develop life-saving medicines, experiments are carried out on rodents or other animals, but overall, we would like and our firm position is that Hungary should conduct all kinds of animal experiments gradually and should not carry out any kind of experiment on animals. Of course, this does not go from day to day, it is a longer process, but it has to start somewhere, as the Belgians have done, because in Belgium legislation has already been laid down that from 2020 animal testing on dogs, cats and primates cannot be carried out, and from 2025 no live animals can be used for experimental purposes. [[14.00]] This could be an example to follow. There may, of course, be differences in dates. This is a thing above party politics, in Hungary the Hungarian people are basically animal-friendly, animal-loving people and animal-protecting people, at least that is what I am experiencing, and I think they would certainly support an initiative that, at least in principle, the Hungarian Parliament would express its intention to introduce animal testing, to prohibit it by law after a certain period of derogation. We will therefore submit a proposal for a decision which will contain this. [[István Szávay is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] Of course, at the moment we are in favour of the draft law on infringement proceedings, as this amendment is intended to comply with the current EU legislation, but there is nothing against leading the way, like other EU Member States, to apply even stricter conditions. After all, it has also been shown that animal studies that involve the significant torture of animals can now be replaced in many cases, for reasons of money saving or other habit, for other reasons, these experiments are carried out on animals to this day, and, by the way, not only on rodents, but also on dogs, cats, primates under certain conditions, although this is not the most common in Hungary. However, there are a large number of dogs and cats, as it is still possible after the capture of stray animals, and the veterinary authority can provide an exception for experimenting with them. I think we need to rule these out in full sooner or later. I apologize in advance, Mr President, but I do not wish to disturb the order of the Parliament, but I think some illustration is justified in showing by a little visual means how these animal tests are carried out, whether in the case of rodents or in the case of other animals. [[He's showing pictures of size A4.]] Of course, animals are being tortured to a significant extent in all animal experiments with cosmetic, health or other purposes; cosmetics cannot be done in the European Union, as I have just said. Perhaps people who, at any level, even in their own homes, have a pet, even a tiny sense of good faith in other organisms, animals, can only support an initiative aimed at a complete ban on animal testing. One hundred words end: Jobbik will present this proposal to the Parliament, this will be a proposal for a resolution of principle, a basis for discussion, I hope the Parliament will take this into consideration. In terms of dates, conditions, we can and will obviously talk about this and negotiate. If the Parliament takes this into account in the series of subjects, it will be possible to conflict with different technical reasons, whether there is a need for animal testing in Hungary or not, or to prohibit it within a reasonable, closed deadline. Of course, we are in the position, as I said at the beginning, that, yes, all animal experiments in Hungary must be banned in the name and for the sake of the well-spoken people and, of course, in the name and for the sake of animal lovers, animal defenders. We will therefore present this initiative to the House in the next few days. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. To facilitate the situation, I take it not as an illustration, but as a few moments of disturbing calm. I thank you for your cooperation, and I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-16-165	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue with the keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-16-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, After the exciting debate this morning, we could say that there are less exciting laws in the afternoon, but I am personally a great animal lover, and I have a dog at home. I'd think it was the 21st. In the first century, we could see this amendment as a very, very important subject, and I am pleased that it is here in front of Parliament. I predict that we will support this initiative, because I think it can only be supported that I can join the previous solo in every way, so that those methods can be taken out, where we can talk about experimenting with animals, even if we know very well that in many cases this experiment is for the people, if we use it for medicine or for any other method. I think that we should talk more within the walls of Parliament, discuss what constitutes an animal experiment in Hungary or in the world today, and against what else we should legislate in order to protect these organisms at all, by the way. If we say that we can rely on things, then we can say that everyone is the same in God's eyes, and if we follow this principle, we cannot distinguish between humans and animals. I said from the beginning that we will support this initiative in any way, and I would like to see over the years that we will be able to talk about making huge mistakes as keepers of animals, whether we are talking about favourites or about large-scale methods and how we are making mistakes with regard to animal farming itself. However, we ourselves face the fact that, let's say, we can argue that those who hold animals as their favorites cross the border, what is it that we can cross the border by keeping animals with such tools. What can be criticized for the amendment of the law: the establishment of an appropriate control authority is not possible, and here the experimenters themselves are entrusted with the goodwill of saying that they comply with the law or do not comply with it. I think the task of the government and the wallet would be to provide a little more substantial financial resources here, so that the controls may be carried out more effectively, because if we say that mandatory compliance with the laws of animal testing depends on the experimenter confessing to whether or not he has complied with the law, let us be honest, that is why we have doubts whether these will happen or not. So on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I welcome the fact that we see such laws before Parliament, and really work to say that we will not need any animal experiment as soon as possible, but that we can replace these problems by other alternative methods. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-167	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I do not see any need for further speeches by the lead speaker, because there are some factions who did not wish to speak. I therefore announce that we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-16-168	Thank you very much. My speech as a keynote speaker was omitted, but since the proposal for a resolution I referred to above party policy, we are, of course, very welcome as representatives of all the political groups. We will send this message to all the factions, because we would like it to be a noble matter that would be joined equally by all factions over party politics, and as a joint declaration, the Parliament could accept it as a statement of principle. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He applied for a further speech, although he may have accidentally pressed the button, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. You have indicated your speech, you are on the monitor, but if you do not wish to speak... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I pressed it separately, sorry!]] The congresswoman indicated that she did not wish to comment; it was a false press. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who wishes to respond to what has been said after the general debate has been concluded. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-10-16-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank the woman and the gentleman who spoke for the support of the bill. I am glad that we are in a debate in parentheses, and I am not dealing with the factions that have not spoken to it, and there must also be a reason for this, in which there is consensus. There is usually a debate about the amendment of the Animal Protection Act, and we usually talk less about what we should do about it. Allow me to comment on a woman who represents a reaction: this somehow sounded like a lack of a proper control authority. I can inform the congresswoman, as I said in the expozee, that the bill also strengthens the possibility for the National Food Chain Safety Agency, as a veterinary authority, to authorise it, or, in the light of experience, when an animal experiment is conducted, the breeder, the supplier, from the user, if it does not comply with the appropriate conditions, to withdraw the authorisation it issued. Obviously, all controls can be strengthened and operated more effectively. The National Food Chain Safety Office is in a position to devote 10% of the food chain monitoring fee, which should be paid to all food chain companies, to compulsory development, so that in any case, including in the case of animal protection, we can make such improvements, but thank you very much for the contribution of the Member. I think that it is really important, not only in terms of infringement procedures, but also in the area of animal protection, so that we can speak and agree on as many issues as possible in this area. Congresswoman mentioned the case of responsible livestock farming. Indeed, one of the most important things in addition to legislation is that we can do everything we can to give all the information we can to the keepers of animals, to the workers of large livestock farms, and especially to young people, children, about what they need to pay attention to and what makes them responsible. Such programs have been launched by the National Food Chain Safety Office, the background institution of the Agricultural Ministry, in recent years. We are trying to help as few unclaimed, stray dogs as possible within the framework of our master's approach-forming program. We have also launched a spaying program that aims to ensure that dogs that have been brought to animal shelters or to dogyards are provided with as many as possible. By the way, the figures of recent years show that we have been able to move forward in this matter. Of course, there is a need for more financial instruments and more programmes here, but recently, among other things, the publication "Dog Duty" has been published in the care of the Nebih, which draws attention to and informs everyone about how to hold an animal responsibly, and what to do and what to do when meeting a stray animal. Summa summarum, thank you very much for your contributions from all Members, and thank you very much for your support in advance. Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-16-171	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I announce that our next agenda will be attended by Secretary of State József Bódis on behalf of the Government. Your colleagues have indicated that you will be here in about five minutes, so with due respect to my fellow Members, I am forced to order a five-minute recess. I ask you to remain here, if possible, in your position or nearby, so that we can continue as soon as Secretary of State arrives. Thank you for your understanding. (Sunning: 2.15, 14.24 p.m.) President: István Jakab Note: László Földi és Bence Tordai)
u2018-10-16-172	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Secretary of State has arrived. We'll start our work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you very much. My apologies, gentlemen. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/2061. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, apologies, Imre Ritter, a ethnic advocate, aye, apologies, a Member, the author of the item on the agenda. I will follow you, Congressman, because you worked as a spokesperson earlier in the previous term, and unfortunately, this is how it got stuck. Congressman wants to give his speech on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman, step outside.
u2018-10-16-173	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Der Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten hat am 9. October 2018 den Gesetzentwurf Nr. T/2061 mit dem Betreff: Modififierung des Gesetzes Jahr 2011. Nr. CXC uber dem National Erziehungs- und Bildungsgesetz erörtert und verabschied. Der Modifizierungsvorschlag würde im Parlex mit Nr. T/2061 eingerecht. Bitte erlauben Sie mir, als Unterbreiter, dass ich Sie in Namen des Ausschusses über die Einzelheiten, über die Vorgeschichte und über die Notwendigkeit der Modifizierung informiere. Mr President, Dear House, On 9 October 2018, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed and adopted the T/2061. CXC 2011 on national public education. a bill to amend the law, and then it was filed in Parlex. Allow me, on behalf of our committee, to inform you of the details, history and necessity of the bill. To understand the importance and merits of the legislative amendment on the agenda, we need to go back briefly to the beginning of the previous term. In 2015, we started to establish our first budget demand by establishing that we consider the promotion of national minority education institutions in all aspects as the number one priority of the nationalities in Hungary; this is the foundation for the survival of our nationalities. Then we had to add immediately that, despite this, we could not present a well-founded amendment to the situation of ethnic public education institutions, because we simply do not have the appropriate surveys and specific numerical data. The preparation of the 2016 Central Budget Act was therefore started in February 2016, but when it was found in March 2016 that the submission and approval of the law from the usual year-end period will be brought forward by the government to the spring session, which we supported, supported and welcomed again and today, we were once again in the position that there was no time to carry out the surveys needed for a well-founded amendment proposal. During the preparatory phase of the 2017 budget, although the need for and elements of the minority kindergarten teacher programme have already been discussed in advance with the secretary of state and minister of the specialty, the KLIK could not be presented again due to demonstrations and reorganisations in relation to other educational issues, since the government's intention was not known, there were no appropriate parliamentary decisions yet, so it was not possible to know what room for manoeuvre we had and will have. Finally, we did not want anyone in this situation to use our initiative to improve the situation of national public education institutions for political purposes. Therefore, the compilation of the programme and package for national minority public education institutions had to be moved to the 2018 budget year. Accordingly, from September 2016, we have drawn up a programme in which we assessed the actual situation of the national minority kindergartens of nationalities living in Hungary, their nationality-educator status for five years and five years in advance for certain points. Secondly, in the topics agreed with seven universities and colleges of primary and secondary education in Hungary, we also surveyed the situation and opportunities of the education of national education teachers for two years in advance, going back five years and on several issues. [[14.30]] Thirdly, we have analysed the issues related to the quality and content of the education of national education teachers, the POK, the educational institutions of nationality, and public education professionals, as well as the possibilities for solving them. Following a detailed analysis of the data available on the basis of a full survey, we discussed the direction and specific possibilities of possible and necessary measures to improve the situation with the Ministry of Education of the EMMI, the Association of National National Governments, of course the Committee and subcommittees of nationalities, as well as educational professionals. On this basis, we have established a complete programme of national children's educators and ethnic educators, which was the backbone of the national needs for the 2018 and then for the 2019 central budget. This included an increase in the number of participants in initial education and additional training for national kindergarten teachers, the quality of the training, particularly the substantial improvement of nationality language and nationality content, the financial cover necessary for the holding of national kindergarten teachers, including compensation for the appropriate costs of employers' kindergarten teachers, adequate incentives for universities, colleges, and the support of a contractual scholarship for students in training, which ensures that they start and remain on the national level after the training. The other part of the programme would significantly increase the nationality bonus for more than a thousand national kindergarten educators and nearly two thousand ethnic teachers, teachers and ethnic educators who are entitled to nationality allowances, thus helping to keep them on track, increasing their appreciation. Allow me to inform you, this House, of the more detailed evaluation of the survey of national nursery schools. As an introduction, I would like to say that out of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, 8 nationalities have officially registered national minority kindergartens, Croatian, German, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian, 5 nationalities, Bulgarian, Greek, Polish, Armenian, Ukrainian, have no kindergarten. The situation of the 8 nationalities with national minority kindergartens is also different in many respects, depending on their location in Hungary, how far they are from the mother country, what the number of nationalities is, and so on. Thus, there are also common points on the issue of national minority kindergartens, but also specific features and problems per nationality, such as on most ethnic issues, so it is not possible to give all nationalities and the same template solution for all problems. In addition, the Roma in Hungary are in a particular situation compared to other nationalities, since while other nationalities try to bring children of national minorities together in smaller or larger national minority kindergartens and provide them with high-quality ethnic education, in the case of Roma children, in some Roma kindergartens the problem of segregation can arise at any time. The minority kindergarten teacher project covers all eight nationalities with ethnic pre-schools, and I would like to present the issue with the results of the survey on German ethnic pre-schools. Between October 2016 and February 2017, all 215 German national nursery schools were fully evaluated and the data verified. Intermediately, it is a coincidence, but perhaps it is symbolic that Hungarians across the border have exactly 215 Hungarian ethnic preschools in neighbouring countries, just the same as Germans in Hungary. As defined in the Public Education Act, there may be two types of kindergarten of nationality. One is the mother tongue of nationality, where education is conducted exclusively in the language of nationality. In only one kindergarten, Valeria Koch, Pécs, and there has only been German-language education for 4 years. The other 214 German kindergartens are taught in two languages. According to the Public Education Act, children receiving nationality education in bilingual national preschools should be treated in more than half of their education time in ethnic languages, which means that both kindergarten teachers working in ethnic groups should have a degree in nationality. There are 568 ethnic groups in the 215 German minority kindergartens, with 1136 ethnic teachers per group. On the other hand, the actual number of German nationality educators is only 662, i.e. the number of missing German ethnic educators is 474, which is 41.7 percent of the number required. So almost every second German ethnic educator is missing. If you look at and group the aggregated data by kindergarten, then the number of kindergartens where both kindergarten teachers are present or where there are three, two of them have a nationality degree, 33 of them, only 15.4 percent of all kindergartens. In other words, one in every seven German national minority preschools only have the personal conditions for the statutory level of nationality education. The number of kindergarten teachers with more ethnic qualifications than there are ethnic groups, 39 institutions, 18.1 percent of all kindergartens. In all other German national preschools, i.e. two thirds of our kindergartens, there is a maximum of one kindergarten teacher with a German nationality degree, i.e. the temporary or permanent loss of any German nationality kindergarten teacher, the sick population, the absence of careers, and in the case of the others, even one national kindergarten teacher per group cannot be guaranteed. Finally, at the end of 2016, even at the time of the survey, 22 German kindergarten teachers were less German children's kindergarten teachers than German ethnic groups, there were no preschool teachers with nationality qualifications in nine German ethnic preschools, and therefore German ethnic groups were no longer launched in 4 kindergartens. On this basis, it should be said that, only on the basis of nationality education, it is not possible to pursue effective national education in about two thirds of German national preschools. This situation has been felt for about a decade and a half, which has been drastically accelerated in the last 4-5 years by the withdrawal of the German language education shortage caused by large-scale migration to Austria and Germany. With regard to German nationality, there is also a serious risk that there is no higher education course in Austria and Germany, so graduates of the German national education course are welcome to attend Hungarian universities and colleges with open faculty. In the other seven nationalities, based on the data processed by their national minority self-governments, there are also different, but sometimes there are serious problems in the area of nationality education, with a lack of nationality educators of nearly 100 people. Thus, the overall gender education gap is around 550 people, i.e. that was in March 2017. In the last 5 years, about 100 national children's educators received a vocational degree and a total degree in the relevant nationalities each year. [[14.40]] The current situation poses a fundamental threat to the functioning of national pre-schools due to the lack of a nationality educator. Based on the consultations with 8 universities and colleges who have completed the education of national education teachers, about 140 courses per year could be provided for the initial education of the minority kindergarten teacher and about 60 courses per year for the relevant 8 nationalities. So the task is double. On the one hand, with a contract of scholarship for students in the field of national education education, it is necessary to create a situation for students to apply for a maximum number of initial education courses as a kindergarten teacher of nationality; to make national kindergarten schools interested in sending their teachers of Hungarian basic education, but belonging to a nationality, to supplementary education; and to support training institutions at such a level that they can ensure the personal and material conditions of an appropriate level of basic and supplementary education of nationality. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that national education teachers who are currently on the field remain on the field, perhaps the former leavers, to which we have proposed a significant increase in the gender education substitute from 10 percent to 30 percent, which would be indicative for the whole ethnic education society. The first step, the increase from 10 to 15 per cent, took place from 1 January 2018, and now the second step, i.e. the increase from 1 January 2019 to 30 per cent of the minority bonus raised to 15 per cent, would take place with the amendment on this agenda. Returning and strengthening our children's ethnic mother tongue starts in national nursery schools, so we focused first on the assessment of the nationality education education and the national kindergartens. But we do know that there are at least such levels of problems with the education and teaching of nationalities, with teachers also teaching specialities in ethnic language, and with the education of national minority schools, the exact survey of which will also be carried out this autumn and next spring. In the meantime, as long as the full training programme for the education of nationalities is being developed, it is essential to maintain the minority teachers on the field, so we have extended the increase of the nationality allowance to national teachers and teachers in 2018 as well as in the current bill. The budget coverage of the full education of nationalities and the teaching programme is fully ensured by the 2018 and 2019 central budgetary law, which I am subsequently thanking the House for its adoption. In addition to solving the number problems of nationality education, it is equally important and a priority issue is the significant development and objective measurement of the quality of training, including nationality language knowledge and nationality content. This is because, as a result of the lack of training, there are significant differences in nationality language skills among some of the ethnic educators on the field, including between training places. In consultation with the training sites, objective, written requirements on nationality language skills should be established during recruitment, and those who do not have an adequate level of nationality language competence should be extended to 8 semesters of initial training for 6 semesters, from which the first two semesters would essentially serve the development of ethnic language competences. A nationality language examination requirement should also be introduced on the output side of the national education course, eliminating today's harmful situation of automatically recognising the acquisition of nationality education without any language examination and regardless of the objective level of language knowledge, as equivalent to a type C language examination. I would also like to highlight two very important aspects of the legislative amendment. On the one hand, the increase in the nationality bonus applies to all ethnic teachers of the seven nationalities entitled to all national minority allowances, regardless of the reservation of the national minority public education institution in question. It therefore applies to the Klebelsberg maintenance, those maintained by local authorities, those maintained by local or national minority authorities, those maintained by churches, those maintained by foundations, and so on. On the other hand, each national minority public education institution concerned will receive an additional premium to cover the increase in the nationality bonus in 2018 and 2019, so that the increase of the nationality bonus should not be financed under other cost frameworks. Finally, the six nationalities who do not have public education institutions do not have national education education, so they do not benefit directly or indirectly from the national minority educator project, so I would like to thank you publicly for the fact that, despite this, with the future of our children and the survival of our nationalities, the necessary proposals for amending budgets and public education have always been voted in favour of the meetings of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Allow me to thank the Bulgarian, Greek, Polish, Armenian, Ukrainian and Ruthenian minority parliamentary spokespersons here and now. Mr President, Dear House, On the basis of what has been said, I would like to ask you with respect that the T/2061 submitted by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. CXC 2011 on national public education. to support and adopt a bill amending the law. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr József Bódis wishes to speak. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-16-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T/2061 on the amendment of Law No 2061 On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain, in a few sentences, the justification of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. This amendment is necessary because the 2019 Budget Act, on the proposal of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, created the necessary resources to increase the nationality bonus from 15 percent to 30 percent. The bonus has already increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent in 2018, so the increase can take place for the second time. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has developed a programme for the development of national education, which aims to increase the number of young people who choose the national minority education career and the quality of national education, to make language training more effective, and to keep and improve the appreciation of ethnic teachers on the field. This programme includes a significant increase in national minority allowances. I see a chance that the implementation of the programme will result in an increase in the number of participants in national minority education, an improvement in the level of training, and through them the level of education in national preschools. The Committee worked closely with our wallets in drawing up its programme. [[14.50]] Enhancing the effectiveness of national education and education education can only be envisaged in close cooperation with the relevant ethnic communities. It is in our common interest to find solutions appropriate to our national policy goals and to the interests of nationalities. The National School Development Programme is an excellent example of active national interest. We are talking about a case that we can fully support professionally. During the ongoing preparation of the amendment to the Public Education Act, our portfolio also planned this amendment, but the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities considers the entry into force of January 1, 2019 to be ensured if the amendment is submitted independently. The payment of a higher amount of nationality allowance shall be made from 1 January 2019 only if, in Annex 8 to the Public Education Act, the rate of nationality allowance is adjusted to 30 per cent. Since the source of the increase in the nationality allowance was created by the, 19th budget law, it is necessary to amend Annex 8 to the Act, so we support the bill of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mrs Maria Kállai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Nationality Spokesman! Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill submitted by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as we have heard from Mr.Secretary of State today, is to compensate for the shortage of national minority educators, which has caused a major problem in Hungary's public education institutions in recent years, and to provide an adequate number of qualified and qualified professionals to the Hungarian nationalities. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this very thorough and very forward-looking analysis and for the absolute face of the present. I think that it has been very meaningful and very instructive, because we all know in this Chamber that national education is undoubtedly one of the key areas for the future of nationalities, and it is therefore very, very important that we really pay attention to the way in which national communities imagine shaping their education and education systems, how they imagine legislation and budgetary frameworks to do so. The National Assembly accepted the proposal of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, as we have already heard in the 2019 Act, and we also see that for years it has always been more and more in advance for the expenditure of nationalities, in the budget line it has provided this supplement in any way from 15 percent to 30 percent, and this resource is necessary to enable this increase to happen. However, in order to be able to do so and to be tangible as from 1 January, it is necessary for beneficiaries to adapt it in any way, as the Secretary of State said, to 30 percent of the national minority bonus rate set out in Annex 8 to the National Public Education Act. This legislation, as everyone is likely to see in front of it, effectively sets out this possibility for all ethnic educators in a uniform manner. The Fidesz Group considers it extremely important to keep teachers who are already on the field and to make the education, respect and training of ethnic teachers more attractive based on the analysis we have just heard, thus ensuring the future of nationalities in Hungary. Our group fully agrees with this and fully supports the proposed bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us, on behalf of the Jobbik fraction, is about our support. This proposal is part of a process which has already been reported in very detailed detail by the previous speakers, and I would therefore not repeat these points. At the same time, I would like to point out that an increase in the national minority allowance to 30 percent is not, in my view, going to solve the minority pedagogue deficit. This is an important and good step, and it is very good that this is proposed by the nationality committee, and it is very good that the 2019 budget provides the resources for this. At the same time, I think that the problems that Imre Ritter, my dear fellow Member, has here been very detailed about the problems that can be addressed either by the training of kindergarten teachers, their level of language skills, or even by teaching and teaching in the field of ethnic education, I think that this also shows that this issue cannot be solved with a simple extra increase, as this is a much more comprehensive issue. Of course, I offer all policy impulses on behalf of the Jobbik faction in which we can move forward together in this case, as it is an extremely important issue to finally teach ethnic teachers and kindergarten teachers in national ethnic education and education institutions who speak the language of a given nationality at an authentic level. While we are talking about, say, different language exams that could be taught earlier in these institutions, and this has now begun to develop, it is clear that in order to start that kind of language re-enactment process in kindergarten, and it is quite right to be able to do so, the international examples show this, and then well and positively, where there is a kindergarten and school system where pre-school teachers, teachers and teachers who speak that language in a perfectly authentic way can achieve authentic bilingualism again for children of overintegrated nationalities where, for various historical and other sociocultural reasons, the process of natural language transfer has been interrupted. In addition, I would like to point out that the general shortage of teachers, which is very serious throughout public education, is also part of this problem. I would just like to refer here to the fact that, say, in the institutions maintained by the Klebelsberg Centre, the budget for the 19th budget envisages a 2.8 percent increase in wages, so that inflation will not be achieved by this increase in wages. But let's say you can't find a kindergarten teacher for half a million forints. I understand, and Mr Ritter said very well that domestic Roma nationality has other problems, and their education system is built quite differently, but I do think that it is not ethnic or ethnic, but I look at Mr State Secretary here, and it is possible to think about a system of allowances, and this is what Jobbik proposes that, in addition to a certain proportion of students with multiple disadvantaged status, there should be, for example, a type of allowance for teachers or kindergarten teachers in such institutions, because we believe that these are also very important issues from a social point of view. I stress that I do not want to confuse the two topics, and we can fully support this proposal, and I would just like to point out that Hungarian ethnic education works within Hungarian public education, so it cannot clearly exclude itself from the general processes. Obviously, we think that in this circle, too, this should be treated as a complex system. In conclusion, perhaps, I am very pleased that this has been done so smoothly here in the preparatory process, and I thank everyone who participated in this work for the negotiations, and, as I said, on behalf of the Jobbik fraction, for further progress we are offering policy negotiations. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2018-10-16-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Ritter, because I have never heard the situation of ethnic education in such detail, and I have not seen it, so I should like to thank you, my dear Member. It is true that this one-word, quasi-rabbit, amendment of the law draws attention to many of the problems, or it can draw our attention to them, but it is, in fact, how we can move forward in the kindergartens of nationalities, in this kindergarten system. The fact that we now raise the allowance for all ethnic colleagues, teachers and kindergarten teachers can be a first step in dealing with cases, I am sure that we will be able to move on, but the point is that from 1 January next year, the staff working here will receive an increased allowance, and we hope that this will also reduce career leaving and increase admission to higher education institutions. So I very much hope that this first step has now taken place with this amendment of the law, and in the coming years we will be able to move forward both to improve the position of colleagues working in public education and what is vital to ensure that the teaching and teaching of nationality is properly put in place. On behalf of the KDNP, we support the bill that has just been tabled and ask my fellow Members for their support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-16-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Since the change of regime, there has been a political consensus that Hungary will be exemplary with its own minorities at the border, so that national governments have been established, and that is why we support ethnic education in particular. However, the nationalities of Hungary are assimilating at an incredible pace, there are hardly any native speakers, but there are fewer and fewer bilinguals. The German, Swabian minority is part of the exception to this, if they are already more organized, and German is a valuable western language in terms of social prestige. As a result, German ethnic education is so to speak, we can say that it is alive and well, so in the justification the picture has been painted a little darker, although obviously there is a shortage of teachers, as well as the loss of language caused by assimilation. On the other hand, the demand for German ethnic education does not weaken, for the reasons listed above, partly out of the tradition of the assimilated Swabian families, partly from the middle class of non-German origin in towns and villages, where German ethnic education is a form of an elite option. But what we see, and let me make a small criticism, is that, when we look at the problem we are already facing in the field of education, we can say that it is a very small section of the educational problem in which we are trying to make progress, but we are having a huge problem. And while we're talking about kindergarten teachers, the speaker before me told me, and let me tell you one thing, you're missing more than 500 kindergarten teachers, so to speak, from the kindergarten system. We are talking about a very serious problem, and if you look at small settlements, and if you look at disadvantaged small settlements, you can barely catch teachers there with lassos. I would like to put the criticism against the fact that I think that this will cause serious tension among kindergarten educators, that if one kindergarten teacher, let's say, gets a 30-percent raise, then why can't the other educator get a raise? Nevertheless, we support this initiative, as I said at the beginning, the survival and support of minorities in every way, and we always say that the survival of the minority can be achieved through education, that they must know their language, know their culture and give them all the help they need. On the other hand, the general educational problems that pro-government politicians have not been very concerned with in the last eight years and have not been willing to deal with should be addressed. One of the biggest problems of this is the lack of teachers, no matter whether they hide it or try to hide it, and not only in the field of kindergarten teachers, but also in school teachers, where we see more than 3,000 teachers missing from the system. We are talking about a huge problem, and I think that, in general, the teaching career should be more appreciated by the government and that, in general, more emphasis should be placed on education itself, because we have said several times in our speeches when we talk about education, we are talking about the future, we are talking about the future of our children. It will determine what future Hungary will have, what education we will provide for our children; and then we could spend hours talking about what our problem is today for opposition representatives, and now I am decoupling myself from what my problem is as a mother about the state of public education. I could talk hours about what it did, what damage it's done in the last eight years, and we're on our way to education. I think that we should focus more on it, and we should talk a lot about what future our children will have and what future Hungary will have, just because they have ruined education in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-16-184	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for this very detailed presentation, because this has given us a chance to get a glimpse of how careful the national authorities are at their own institutions and also at the institutions of which they are not the maintainers, but that they are pursuing ethnic education. I must admit, I was a little envious in the sense that I wish that the whole education system would be dealt with with with with such thoroughness and care by its owners, and, for example, they would openly face the problems that characterize this education system, whether in the pedagogical situation or in educator training or in other aspects and other aspects. As far as the specific proposal is concerned, I would like to make a small methodological comment there. After all, there is a budget law in order to settle matters relating to the budget, so it is difficult to understand that if this change had already been covered by the government in the budget, then why didn't you put this proposal before us in the context of the legislative amendments establishing the budget, because here would have been a way to look together, if you liked it, the source and the professional, policy change, that is exactly what this technique is for. This is a strange solution that the government had then forgotten, and now it comes to Parliament in a separate motion. However, there is no doubt that this need is justified, and it is necessary to find a source and a solution to this, because working in ethnic schools or kindergartens, so the work of national teachers is an activity that requires special skills and special skills, and it is therefore fair for the legislator to recognise this with a special allowance. The question arises, but it is only a question of detail that it is fortunate that the solution, which has been the same since the previous increase, is that the lower and the upper limits are the same, and the problem here is not, of course, that the lower limit is not lower, but that the upper limit is not higher, so, in Hungarian, that there is no way for the maintainer to do outstanding work in this area, since more people here have talked about it, the nationalist himself, that ethnic teachers are also involved in this work with different professional skills, so that the maintainer can give them special recognition. Perhaps it would be better to choose a more flexible solution here, just like the other allowances; there is a lower and upper limit in order to be able to differentiate within this. [[15.10]] However, what we see as the biggest problem, and this is not the problem of this proposal, but a problem of what is left out of this proposal, and it is unfortunate that it is not the Ministry of Education that forgives us, I always forget that we have this proposal in the presentation of the long term ministry, because it is not just a problem with the substitute for ethnic educators. Let me give you a very clear example. For example, in the case of therapeutic educators, this supplement is only 5-10 percent, so a maximum of 10 percent can be given, while here we want to raise it from 15, while all this is true of the teachers we have said here about ethnic teachers: they need special expertise, they do a particularly difficult and complex task, and there is a very large shortage of them. In a previous comment, I spoke about how many students there are in Hungary today and how many children cannot be cared for in the absence of a medical educator in the public school system, without adequate medical pedagogical expertise. But I could also mention the area that Congressman Brenner Koloman mentioned, because there is such a bonus, even our government has introduced it, the allowance for work carried out in so-called difficult circumstances, but the minimum is only 10 percent, and the maximum is 30 percent, to which the committee now proposes to increase the nationality allowance. Therefore, our position is that, while we agree with the increase in the nationality bonus, we consider this to be little. We think, and we will be proposing an amendment to, that we increase any teacher's allowance for working in such a particularly difficult situation. So if there is a substitute for one of the important areas, then there should be a substitute for the other important area, so that we do not confront the teachers or create a situation where someone else receives or does not receive. We propose that we also submit as an amendment that we increase these types of allowances. We know it requires resources from the government, but what we see is that if the government needs something, it has a source. The government has just saved 70 billion forints in housing savings banks, and here is a great opportunity to spend something useful on it. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, if my fellow Members wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] If not, I would like to ask if someone would like to use an additional opportunity to speak. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank everyone in their comments for their support for the bill, and I would like to thank the Secretary of State in particular, and I would like to say that, of course, no matter how detailed the preliminary introduction was, much is not included. I completely agree with what Brenner Koloman said, that this increase from 10 to 30 percent is not going to solve either the nationality educator or the national minority teacher, but that's why I've been trying to show that it's just one point in it. It's very important, and it's not the subject of today's bill, but I can tell you that we're in the finale. In practice, we agreed on everything, and going back to 1 September 2018 we can start the scholarship system for both the day- and evening-time correspondence studies, which will provide a contractual framework for those who complete the three-four-year course and then start the course, and will receive a scholarship in the first three-four years of starting the course, just as it is in the Klebelsberg system for teaching and teaching. I also fully agree with the other part, which appeared, I believe, with Mrs. Bangón, also with Gergely Arató, the differentiation. We didn't want to make a conscious difference in the amount of the allowance. Our aim was to achieve this 70% for everyone on the field and to review eligibility for 2020 because, for example, primary school ethnic teachers, who take one class, have 5 hours a week, while at the same time teachers and teachers teaching ethnic languages over 50 percent of their working time are entitled to the minority allowance. So, for example, classic ethnic teachers are currently missing it, and we would like to differentiate so that, among other things, they, let's say, not get 30 percent, but 20, and expand the scope of entitlement so that everyone who teaches and educates in nationality can be included in this circle. I also fully agree that education as a national education teacher does not necessarily solve the general shortage of teachers in this field, but, for example, if we are able to achieve a significant increase in the number of teachers and teachers in national education education, at the same time we almost solve the general problem of kindergarten educators, as nearly 500 teachers are absent and nearly 500 people are missing as kindergarten teachers, but very many are currently raising children in a Hungarian kindergarten education group. So I think that we do not want to extend beyond our own borders, we do not think that Hungarian nationalities need to be resolved on issues that are significantly wider than ours, but this is precisely an area where, if we can solve the education and training of national teachers and maintain them on the field, we can also solve the provision of kindergarten teachers to non-ethnic kindergartens. What Gergely Arató referred to, and I ask you to think about this further, reserved, of course, that we obviously agree with the increase in the allowance of the teachers of the teachers of the children in difficult circumstances, and we also asked for this bill to be submitted separately, together with the fact that during the autumn it is virtually certain that another amendment to the Public Education Act will be tabled by the government, because the unwritten rule so far was that we tried to submit proposals and amendments only to the issues of nationality, and we also asked each faction not to submit any further amendments to this, preferably concerning non-nationalities, so that we did not go to any political question. I stress that it is not that we do not agree, but I ask you to consider this on behalf of DK. I would like to respond to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély with one more sentence. I don't think it's a darker picture, but I think I've painted a completely realistic picture, and that's why this area is very important, because it's not just a small slice, because we're talking about over 50,000 children, young people, who go to ethnic preschools or ethnic primary schools. To be exact, 50 thousand people who receive national education, as more people otherwise attend ethnic primary schools or national kindergartens. So I think this is a very significant part of Hungarian kindergarten education and primary education. Finally, I would also like to thank László Földi for his support, as I pointed out very briefly in the introduction that he was invited and attended, among other things, last week's national minority committee meeting, Gabriella Hajnal, President of the Klebelsberg Center, and Zoltán Maruzsa, Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry, and we discussed that this autumn and next spring we will also carry out the same full-scale survey on the teaching and teaching of nationality, which obviously does not work without Klebelsberg, as most of the primary schools of nationality are in Klebelsberg maintenance. [[15.20]] I very much hope that we can also do a full, realistic survey there, based on the extension of the scholarship programme and other measures. Thank you very much for your support, and I would like to ask all the factions that, on the basis of the very good practice of the last nearly 5 years, where the legislative amendments tabled by the nationality committee are adopted unanimously by Parliament, they should keep this good habit and support this bill. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2018-10-16-188	I thank Imre Ritter for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate of the bill on the publication of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Indiana on cooperation in the field of higher education until its conclusion. Government referral T/2161. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-10-16-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the T/2161 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Indiana on cooperation in the field of higher education On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main elements of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. The bill concerns the publication of an agreement providing the legal basis for the operation of Notre Dame University in Hungary as a foreign higher education institution registered in the State of Indiana in the United States. On 25 July 2018, the agreement was signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó and Governor Eric Holcomb on behalf of the State of Indiana. The conclusion of the agreement is justified by the investigation carried out by the Education Office in 2016, during which it was shown that several of the institutions examined are operating irregularly in Hungary. In view of the results of the study, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education was amended. Law 76 of which Paragraph (1) (a) states that, in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and the European Economic Area and having an educational activity in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Home State to support the operation of Hungary in principle. In accordance with this amendment, and in order to enable the cooperation of Pázmány Péter Catholic University and Notre Dame University, it became necessary to conclude an international treaty with the State of Indiana of the United States of America. The cooperation between Pázmány Péter Catholic University and Notre Dame University on several years of education and research is a prelude to the agreement. The agreement was concluded following negotiations between Notre Dame University of Indiana and Pázmány Péter Catholic University in March 2018. The parties expressed their mutual willingness to cooperate, in which the Pázmány Péter Catholic University would launch the chemistry engineering, civil engineering and mechatronics at BSc and MSc level at Notre Dame University in Budapest. The agreement contained in the draft law includes support for the educational activities of Notre Dame University in Hungary, the legal status of the university in Hungary, the bodies responsible for implementing the agreement, as well as the validity of the agreement, and designates the Ministry of Human Resources as the body responsible for implementing the agreement from the Hungarian part. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. In accordance with paragraph 5 of the Agreement, the Parties undertake to conduct the internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement by 15 November 2018. This Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following receipt of the last written notification on diplomatic channels in which the Parties notify each other of the completion of the internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement. With the entry into force of this bill, the conditions for the future operation of Notre Dame University in Hungary will be settled between the parties. In line with the strategic document in higher education adopted in 2015, the agreement has a long-term impact on the competitiveness and internationalisation of Hungarian education by ensuring continued cooperation with Notre Dame University and Indiana State. There are no budgetary implications and no obligations in relation to the agreement. As Minister for Education, the Minister of Human Resources shall provide for the measures necessary for the implementation of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-191	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The general objective of this bill is to promote higher education cooperation between the States of Hungary and Indiana. The law before us is preceded by the fact that Notre Dame University, established in Indiana, intends to launch training in Hungary, among other things, as stated in the presentation of the Secretary of State, in the field of civil engineering, chemical engineering and mechatronics, and the location of the training would be Pázmány Péter Catholic University. This was recorded by the two universities in a separate cooperation agreement. It's not just any university in this case. Founded in 1842, the American Catholic Notre Dame University is ranked 150th, and in the United States it was placed in the top 25. It is therefore one of the most traditional institutions of higher education in the United States. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Pursuant to law, foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union or the European Economic Area and carrying out educational activities in Hungary require the conclusion of an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Home State. A similar agreement has already been reached for several universities, with 7 higher education institutions in 4 states. The last law on cooperation between the MCU University in the Kingdom of Thailand and the Tan Kapuja Buddhist College in Hungary was negotiated and adopted today by the Parliament on 2 October. The negotiations on Notre Dame University were successfully concluded, and the agreement was signed, as has been said, during the visit of Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill, i.e. the announcement of the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-10-16-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Internationalisation is one of the most outstanding strategic objectives of Hungarian higher education, and therefore the Jobbik faction will support this proposal. As I said earlier in the draft Thai agreement mentioned here, it is extremely important that foreign universities providing training in Hungary have a quality assurance system, since there is a certain market within the European Union, but also outside the European Union, let us say by its name, higher education courses. [[15.30]] We have seen this, let us say, at the Educatio trade fairs for many years, that there are different foreign universities and colleges coming to Budapest, which provide very different quality trainings and try to attract Hungarian students; unfortunately, the government party has not been so blessed in its activities, with increasing success in recent times. That is why it is very important, as my fellow Member, Mr Sigmond Brown, who spoke before me, quite rightly and in detail, that I would now overlook mentioning again how excellent the University of Indiana is, but the Catholic University of Pázmány also does not need to be shown that two such high-quality universities have concluded agreements, the framework of which is provided by this proposal before us. As I have already indicated to the Secretary of State at the last item on the agenda, it would also be extremely important for internationalisation to take steps at home universities, for example, to facilitate the use of foreign professors. I mean, who, like me, had a way of being a university leader, let's say an English professor at a major university in Budapest, while not complying with certain laws in force... because in those regions there is neither an academic major doctor nor a habilitation in this form, you know what I'm talking about. I just wanted to say with respect that internationalisation has such a dimension, where we are also talking about very important professional steps, for which, of course, the Jobbik faction is looking forward to all policy initiatives. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-16-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The Chinese say it's wisdom that prevents you from being in a position to use your wisdom. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I was shocked to hear the long analysis of how important it is, how big it is, what a patina university it is. Of course, gentlemen, that's true, all of what you're saying. You're talking about six universities, we've counted seven, but the real reason these interstate agreements were made is because you made a law for the execution of a piece of university. Meanwhile, they are forced to conclude six other types of interstate agreements with those who have done all the activities that you say in Hungary in the past. János Lázár said, as an outstanding minister and an important politician in the press at the end of March, that there was no problem with these universities, such as this McDaniel College liberal and meets all kinds of rules. They said they'd meet all kinds of rules. Then the question arises: if all Hungarian rules were met by these universities, then why did this law have to be passed, which involved both Thailand and China, as well as the four US universities. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, which you are obviously not going to say here, but it is my job to put this on the table, all because you have found the CEU, and you have thought that with the CEU an example should be made. This treaty is completely unnecessary. If they had been wise in time, if they had found an appropriate solution in time, it would not be necessary today for the Vice-President, who is currently acting as the chairman, to suffer with an unspeakable university in Thailand at the time of voting. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you wanted to regulate the CEU. It is possible that their ultimate goal is to hate CEU from Hungary. It is not impossible for the ultimate goal, simply because there is a man in whose image they can build their campaigns to scare every single Hungarian, so you are ready to bring in different interstate agreements. We, unlike the opposition Member before me, do not have to take part in this. You try to solve this on your own, account for your own conscience. It is particularly pathetic, as we have seen how, in that period, they have tried to bring the CEU case to state and intergovernmental level in America, as they conclude the treaty with Thailand, Indiana, in these agreements, how they have tried to achieve it, if I understand it correctly, perhaps the aim was to try to push the Viktor-Trump meeting, which was never going to be established, behind the CEU case in some way. These intentions were very embarrassing, and it was very embarrassing for the Secretary of State to try. So, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Secretary of State, I would like to say what it seems others did not want: this law was born only to make the CEU impossible. This agreement, which you are about to adopt, would be completely unnecessary if you had chosen another normal solution to achieve your own political goals. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-196	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. [[Péter Ungár: I apologize, I just dropped my microphone!]] Take your time, Congressman. I'll count the time, feel free. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-197	Thank you for the floor. This, which lies before us, between the State of Indiana and Hungary, is a law on educational institutions, because double accreditation is something that the government is struggling to do, unless this is covered by a separate agreement. The problem with CEU was that double accreditation was not properly regulated according to the government side, and this is a terrible thing. I studied there, at CEU, which is another institution operating with U.S. maintainers in Hungary. The stay of this institution in Hungary is currently in question. The government's representatives went to New York to investigate the real educational activity that allowed this dual accreditation to be resolved. The thing is, we don't know since then, I wrote a letter to the New York Consul, but we haven't known what happened since. The government is slowly grinding, but in this case, it's particularly slow. I would like to point out that when I studied there, I received a CEU degree and a university in Manchester, he was still a member of the EU, so a degree at the University of Great Britain. When I graduated, it hasn't occurred to me that it's a terrible thing that CEU does. It did not occur to me so much that Zoltán Illés, former Secretary of State of the Orbán government, taught me in this department. So in this terrible illegal activity that I took part in and received a double accreditation degree, one at the University of Manchester and one at the Central European University, in this so terrible illegal activity, Zoltán Illés Fidesz, State Secretary of the Environment taught me such evil magic as waste management or, for example, the scientific part of climate change. So in that period, you probably missed the fact that double accreditation is a terrible thing, which, by the way, is nowhere else in the world but in many places. Of course, it can be said that there are training courses in the CEU that have a world vision, and they are doing things because of a certain ideology. Where I studied, there was no such thing, I cannot tell you that in this master's class, my worldview was influenced in any way. Zoltán Elijah didn't tell me when he taught me that I should vote for Fidesz. He told me that he talked to George Soros several times, that he could speak Chinese. I don't know which one of these is true, but anyway, he was your Secretary of State, so you can decide. In any case, the fact is that he has given a lot of things to Hungary, which is why I think it would be good for a treaty like this to come before the Hungarian Parliament. At CEU, people who then take a leading position throughout the world, who improve the reputation of our country, tell them how good it was for them in Budapest, what a nice place Budapest is, tell them how good it was to study there, and it's good for everyone. Freedom is an important thing, because even though we do not agree on everything, and we are often taught on the basis of world views, if people are teaching on the basis of all kinds of world views, then we can live in a diverse country, which, I understand, and if I quote our great ones at the time of reform, is something that we should support. [[15.40]] I would like to include one more thing here, which I think is quite interesting that we don't talk about it, but the main problem with Central European University is that the government, and for example, the State Secretary before me, Szilárd Németh, is supported or financed by György Soros or the foundation led by György Soros. Of course, it's possible to say positive or negative about George Soros. The party that he has previously financed will certainly change his opinion on this matter every year or every five years, but the fact is that George Soros holds a private university, so in this state money, he is not in the CEU. Now it's not gonna be at Corvinus, it's not gonna be at the University of Debrecen or Debrecen, where private schools are being built for public money. So we are slowly moving towards the fact that there will be universities for such influential people everywhere, because you will withdraw the funds from higher education, introduce tuition fees, divert the number of public seats, despite the fact that they started in 2008 with the authority, and then received their legitimacy in 2009 and then in 2009 and in 2009 and, and then, and then in 14 and 18, according to the fact that there will be no tuition fees in Hungary. Nevertheless, you are introducing a tuition fee and introducing a situation where there are almost only private universities where each study is to be paid. I wanted to tell you this, because it's hypocritical to argue against a private university because of its financiers, if you keep creating private universities, you'll only put private universities in a position. The fact is that there is no educational institution in Hungary that would be included in the first 200 or 500 rankings. Unfortunately, we don't have very, very good universities at the moment, and I'm sorry. I know that this is a step in the way of privateizing Corvinus, that's what they say, but it's not gonna do you any good. In any case, the CEU, whatever you think of it, is carrying out very high-quality trainings, which appear on top of the international lists. For example, the course that I graduated from, but this is their very good Business School, or their economics training, so there are a lot of trainings where they've trained all the right things. You can see that the government still trusts a man who graduated there as a government spokesperson. I'm sure if he didn't have a good education at the Central European University, you wouldn't have trusted him to fill this position over and over again. So I would like to ask the present members of the majority of governments to submit such a convention to my alma mater, the Central European University, if possible. I think that this would be good for Hungary, even though you do not agree with the concrete political views of the funder. You will finance other universities or your friends from private hands, and then it will be very good for everyone, and there will be a variety of world visions in Hungarian higher education at a very high level. Thank you very much. [[Gyula Molnár applauds.]]
u2018-10-16-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. However, Mr Szabolcs Szabó is not in the room, so I cannot give him the floor. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches, if that is what we need. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I would just like to note what Péter Ungár suggested in order to make a similar proposal, and I think that there is no obstacle as soon as the provisions of the law are fulfilled here. I'd like to point out that you've made quite an interesting interpretation of the world. At the University of Debrecen, as at other Hungarian universities, there are foreign language courses, such as medical trainings in Debrecen. Medical training there will be accredited separately, over and over every two years by the different Member States of the United States. It is not that the University of Debrecen can issue a Hungarian and an American degree, but that the Hungarian degree in English is recognised in the United States. That's two separate things you've been talking about. Consequently, all higher education institutions operating abroad in Hungary must comply with the legal requirement to have foreign legs and parent institutions. That's what CEU didn't have anyway. As I recall, they recently made some kind of arrangement out of America, the foundation itself in this regard. So from this point of view, we are not talking about a category, honourable Member, and I can say the same thing to Gyula Molnár that, by the way of a concrete presentation, I mean that they are bringing up another thread politically, this proposal is about the fact that there is a foreign American university that is cooperating with a Hungarian university in accordance with the laws in force, and I think that this is the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-16-201	Thank you for the floor. So, then, you claim that it is not possible for a person to issue two degrees, so that only one degree from a training course can be issued and that the two countries must be mutually recognised, and there is no other way for someone to carry out higher education activities. This goes a little against European, former domestic and generally world practice. Once again, I have received, for example, a degree in my CEU education, which is a degree from a university in a European Union Member State, which I did not have to introduce separately. For example, before that, I went to the University of Edinburgh, where I received a piece of diploma from it, and I did not have to have it accepted in Hungary, because every country in the European Union accepts the diploma of the higher education institution of the other country. So what I'm trying to say is that in order for you to figure out that this is a problem, something we've already talked about is that we've been talking about another proposal, and that's one of those political reasons for you to be able to say something that fits into the Soros campaign. Obviously, so far they have had no problem with double accreditation, there are thousands and one places with double accreditation, double diploma issuance, and double diploma issuance is not a bad thing. Explain why a double diploma is wrong, so tell us what the problem is with it. The problem is that if I get a degree at a university in Manchester, do you not think that it meets the expectations that a Hungarian university must meet? So that he's less capable, and that's why I was able to get an advantage from that point of view? Or is double accreditation bad because maybe there's another paper on the same thing that's a training? So if you could tell us what your problem is in principle, we might be able to have a meaningful debate about it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for the floor.
u2018-10-16-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-16-203	Thank you very much. Péter Ungár told me at the end, which was why I was two minutes old. Then let me be clear: if you had handled this wisely, this would not be the situation we are in. You wanted to take care of one thing, it's called the Central European University. We know exactly why. According to our mathematics, six other universities were involved, according to the government's submission, five. These must now be settled simply so that, over the last year and possibly in the next period, they can continue to be in line with the CEU. I also asked that Péter Ungár, in his comments, be more moderate in this matter in such a way as to either release these five universities, and then this is not necessary, or the whole of this kind of amendment is thrown out, and accept that there is this kind of training in Hungary, which is financed by private people, which accepts degrees from different countries. That's what we've been trying to say very clearly and simply. Thank you.
u2018-10-16-204	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to make a two-minute speech. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I asked for the floor because I have now met for a long time, which is not surprising, of course, that the opposition is quite obviously, while they know exactly what the situation is, using concepts that otherwise do not exist in this category or in this debate, or that they make up obvious lies even in a semi-phrase. [[15.50]] For example, dear Peter Ungár, anyone in Debrecen would ever build a private school for public money. The international school that is being built will continue to be owned by the municipality of Debrecen. Therefore, it is not a private school, but, of course, a public school, which otherwise carries out a special educational program, but it is public school, it is public property. The municipality of Debrecen is, according to our concepts, not a private player, but a local government, meaning community ownership. If the international school in Debrecen were to be built, it would be owned by the municipality of Debrecen. So I'd like to ask you to stop saying lies like that. It doesn't make what you're saying true, but it's obvious to everyone that you're either completely uninformed or consciously lying. Once again, the international school built in Debrecen will remain community-owned, so it's not a private school. Secondly, the government spokesperson, of course, did not graduate from the CEU, because my colleague Pósán, who is an instructor at the University of Debrecen, can confirm that he graduated from the University of Debrecen. So he didn't graduate from CEU. He continued his studies at CEU, not to deny it, but not at the University of Debrecen. And the fact that you are clearly defending a foreign interest on account of different aspects is not surprising. But there are a few things that need to be emphasized here, not even for the record. It is entirely intended for you to use the names CEU, Central European University in a mixed way, although this is the case. There is a private university in Budapest, quite rightly. If you look at his website, you can see that the university is called the Central European University. The university itself writes on its website, right now it's on it that it's safe to apply there, there's no threat to the university's existence. This is a university registered in Hungary, to which this law does not even apply. However, you could only come here because there are two other legal entities known as CEU, one of which is an office registered under the name CEU, which calls itself a university in the United States. And there's a publishing company listed as CEU, but that obviously doesn't belong here. The American institution called CEU does not have the following: doctoral school, educational program, research program, teacher, researcher; an office in three rooms with some secretaries. This cannot be described as a university in any sense, even if, by the way, the academic accreditation processes of the United States of America are rather complex and difficult to interpret in the light of the accreditation processes usual in Europe. Once again, the Central European University has no problem with anyone. We do not necessarily agree with his spirituality, we can argue with some of the educational and scientific programmes there, the scientific nature of which is also questioned by many. For example, there is a debate on gender sciences about whether it can be called science or not, but this is a sub-question. The existence, education and institution of the Central European University is not threatened by the dog. The amendment to the Higher Education Act you quoted does not apply to it. However, we really wanted to put an end to a situation that could be described as follows. Students attending the Central European University will receive a CEU degree in addition to the Hungarian degree, which is a diploma awarded by the American office, without education, research or scientific activity, and without a doctoral school. So the thing is, on this basis, anyone could, say, a Hungarian higher education institution, go to Delaware, establish a university with three co-workers, and issue a diploma that the dog doesn't recognize. But he says he also holds a degree in the University of Delaware. The reason why Delaware is particularly advantageous is because there you can register offices as offshores, so it's the chimp word of the con that you're protecting right now. The fact is that no one objects to the fact that, in connection with university cooperation, a person has a degree or a degree issued by a Hungarian university during his studies, and I stress that he does not have a degree or a degree issued by a Hungarian university. There is only one condition for this institution to have a relationship with the Hungarian higher education institution, to have an instructor, to have a scientific programme, to have a research programme, to have a doctoral school. If that's the case, there's no reason for that. Moreover, many of these cooperations are known. But it is the CEU that makes the American office look like it is doing higher education, but it doesn't have any criteria to do so. Therefore, the concepts used in the debate are dual accreditation and double degrees, these are not existing concepts. The fact is that the Hungarian government does not, of course, prevent higher education institutions from working in Hungary that we are arguing with their education, their scientific programme or their spirit. That's okay. Just as there is nothing to prevent a Hungarian higher education institution from giving its students a degree that is awarded by another university. The condition of this is that the institution can actually be referred to a higher education institution according to the Hungarian and the country's concepts. When the Hungarian government, seeing the confusion here, tried to cut a certain order in this way, so that the competitive disadvantage that had hit the Hungarian higher education universities in Hungary should be equal, and equal careers should be equal, of course, everyone deliberately translated the American institution into George Soros or CEU, by which I mean, because the Hungarian is called the Central European University, and, of course, mixing the concepts, caused total confusion throughout the political debate. If you were to take into account the interests of Hungarian higher education, you would approve of this amendment, you would also vote in favour of this proposal, and you would at the very least say that if the CEU American institution actually fulfils the conditions set out in the amendment of the law, then you should conclude the necessary agreement with the Hungarian State and the competent state and acknowledge the CEU degree issued by the Central European University, because you are here in black and white that you have an instructor, you have a programme, you have a doctoral school, you have research. It's just, of course, it's a lot more expensive to provide than to maintain an office with three coworkers. I am pleased that this amendment, which is before the House, has also highlighted the fact that there are a number of institutions in Hungary that have been referred to universities with foreign registrations, which have also indicated that, having failed to carry out meaningful educational, scientific and research activities, it does not wish to conclude such agreements and has simply completed its relevant activities. It'll clear the picture. Hungary also supports even complicated forms of education, but it does not support fraud. It does not support the issue of a university degree in Hungary without any attribute that meets the minimum requirements of higher education. I hope that the opposition will also support this proposal, which has now come before the House specifically in connection with an agreement with the University of Indiana. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[16.00]]
u2018-10-16-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-207	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As lead speaker, I will read the title once again, because probably no more people have heard me: I spoke about the agreement on higher education cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the State of Indiana, and about the cooperation between Pázmány and Notre Dame University, although I would have been surprised if my fellow Member Ungar didn't immediately think of CEU. I've been waiting for Paks and the Liget project, so the usual mantras. Once again, I would like to reiterate what we discussed in the previous debate on this issue in relation to the University of Thailand: in relation to CEU, the CEU's procedure is not fair to Hungarian universities. A Hungarian university issues a degree, while CEU issued two by saying that my colleague Kósa does not have accredited training in America. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Here the concrete agreement is about cooperation between two sovereign universities with accredited training, which is very important in terms of Hungarian higher education, as my right-wing colleague Brenner Koloman pointed out, which is what Hungarian higher education needs to have as many international relations as possible, as many universities have partner universities. This is not the case with CEU; a private university registered in Hungary issues an American diploma without a license to do so. This is not a fair question, because it is a matter of accreditation, it is not a terrible thing, it is an unlawful condition; it is not an individual qualification, it is a question of judgment, it is an unlawful condition, it must be eliminated. This agreement is about something else, about strengthening Hungarian higher education and strengthening international relations, so I ask you once again to support this agreement. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-208	Thank you, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, for his speech. I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent congressman for two minutes.
u2018-10-16-209	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I came back from a professional meeting, and the debate started a little sooner than it was supposed to, so I was late. I only indicated that I would comment in two minutes because we have actually started this in relation to the University of Thailand, but then I am willing to continue doing this in the same way that the tax rate is not true that the operation of the CEU is irregular, and taxatically it is not true that it does not pursue educational activities. The Education Office of the State of New York has already sent two letters, the second being to Mr Bódis as Secretary of State, in which it is written that he is in the process of carrying out educational activities. So we should put this in parentheses slowly; he's doing educational activities, and they have paperwork from the director of New York's education office. And the other story, which they often like to chant about the CEU, is that it is so irregular, so irregular there is no irregularity in its operation, which is what I said the last time. If you think that when an institution gives a degree in a given language and as a student of a foreign institution for a course at the same time, within the framework of a separate training programme, it is irregular, you should tell Viktor Orbán and Mr Áder to ask their children to return their diplomas and send them back, because they have completed exactly the same institution, only in Switzerland and England. So let's really close this down. I am sorry once again that I have missed the beginning of the debate or much of it, only in the two-minute framework, that, as in the case of the University of Thailand, of course, I am in favour of this treaty being concluded, because this is important, and it seems to be a relatively good training programme that Notre Dame University wants to bring here, but it should only be promoted so that, until 31 December, a similar contract with CEU is actually concluded. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-210	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any sign on the screen. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the referring Secretary of State József Bódis.
u2018-10-16-211	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for your supporting contributions. I think that in many respects the comments have also given answers to each other's concerns, but I would definitely like to address some of them. I think that internationalisation is an infinitely important thing for Hungarian higher education. A few years ago, foreign students were in the order of tens of thousands in Hungary, today they are around 30 thousand. There were a number of factors involved, but I would specifically highlight two factors. One of them is the continuation of medical training in more than three decades of foreign languages, mainly in English and later in German, and recently the Stipendium Hungaricum program has significantly increased the number of students abroad. This in itself is not only about numbers, but as long as, in the field of medical training, individual training places, the four universities concerned, have gone through the path of internationalization, with all its difficulties and lights, because both are present, Stipendium Hungaricum is still creating an opportunity to prepare for and exit the international market in relation to the other courses, which the others did not have the opportunity to do. So I think it's an infinitely positive thing. Cooperation between university institutions is of particular importance in this direction of internationalisation, which is where this bill came in today. I very much agree with Mr Brenner's proposal to achieve a quality assurance in this respect. On the one hand, we already have it at a certain level, but I also agree that more emphasis should be placed on this. Let me give you a very recent example: the American accreditation of Hungarian medical education is going back several years, it ended last week, we have not received an official document yet, but they voted yes in 10-3 proportions, so it has not officially reached us. It's not an easy procedure. Application of foreign professors in Hungary: yes, apart from Germany, habilitas is not well known yet, in some places, yes. The title of Doctor of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is even less, but I'll tell you worse: an American professor, English, anyone, doesn't have a language exam, and we should do it in Hungary. So we have work to do in this area. By the way, with regard to the assessment of international rankings, let me say that, of course, it would be good if we were standing where Cambridge University or MIT, we would most likely not understand being there, but it is a positive effort to go forward. But let's not underestimate the academic achievement within the thousand. There are 28,000 higher education institutions in the world, and being in the first thousand is not such a shame. Believe me, as a rector, I followed the trends of the Rankings: while I saw that our numerical parameters grew year after year, the problem was that the others could grow more quickly. The greatest improvement was achieved when the number of foreign students increased and doubled; now, thank God, we can say that it has doubled. One of our weakest parameters is the international composition or low international ratio of the teaching staff, and this is what we have in common. So I'm gonna ask for your help. I would like to say one sentence to Congressman Molnár: this current bill is here because we have a law-abiding attitude. In order for these two institutions to work legally along these programmes, we need to bring them into Parliament, we need to make a bill, and I hope they will accept it. That's what this is about. I was here for the first time in Parliament two weeks ago, at the time, on the bill of law of the University of Thai, but I arrived earlier today, a little later today, I apologize, it wasn't up to me, then, I think it was about water management and environmental protection, and CEU came in. [[Defiance.]] [[16.10]] I was sure CEU would come forward with the Thai university bill. I still gave my opinion on CEU, even now. If we can believe the press announcements, then there will be a very high level of negotiation in the near future, and we trust that it will end in such a way that it will be good for everyone. There is no privateisation of Hungarian universities, no such program. What's happening with Corvinus is a solution, a kind of model, a foundation university. The case of Corvinus made it clear that other state universities should at least have the legal background that they could go in this direction if they wanted to. At the moment, there is a very, very important EU resource in the university sector, the use of which is extremely strict, bound, I highlight the issue of public procurement and procurement, but in many other respects. In a different university system, a state university system, where the state maintains its right and obligation, it is not, therefore, that the state would withdraw from the university system with resources, at least in my knowledge, but the release from constraints, also within a regulated framework, could provide other room for manoeuvre for foreign teachers, as well as for Hungarian teachers, in development and in everything. So I think it's one thing that Corvinus is on the road now. I think it's gonna be very hard work by the time it's exactly put together, and I see that they're not working eight hours to make it go smoothly, but this isn't a story of solitude, as far as I'm concerned. Overall, I think that today's proposal has come before this House in line with the law-abiding behaviour. I would like to ask for your support, because there is a good programme in the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-212	Thank you, Secretary of State József Bódis. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the proposal for a decision on the detailed number of Hungarian Defence Forces will follow until the closure. Government referral H/2163. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-10-16-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The power of the walls is not in the stone, but in the souls of the defenders. This is a timely sentence from István Dobó in his novel Géza Gárdonyi Egri stars. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the quote we have just heard can also be interpreted as the state-of-the-art measuring technique is just a piece of iron if there is no man to treat it with skill and dedication. The Defense Act provides for the National Assembly to determine the detailed breakdown of the army's number, including the voluntary reserveers. Contrary to the 2002-2010 period, one of today's defence success stories is that the current 35/2013 is still in force. The reserve fund established by the parliamentary decision is now close to the top ceiling. Why is this a success story? When Fidesz-KDNP took over government at the will of voters in 2010, Fidesz-KDNP inherited shameful conditions in all areas, including, of course, in the defence sector. Without the need for completeness, allow me to give some examples to my honourable fellow Members of what happened during that period. In 2010, our country had a total of 17 reserve members. From 2002 to 2010, the number of 45,000 authorised persons fell below 29 thousand. The decline trend was at a low level in 2007, when the regular MH population was below 23,500 persons allowed in the decision. In 2003, several armoured and armaments techniques, such as tarack or self-propelled taracks, grenades and mortars and armor-piercing cannons, and in 2005 additional tarack types and serial leaders, including rocket complexes in 2006. So it can be said that the socialist-liberal power, the Gyurcsány, the Bajnai governments, threatened the security of Hungarians, threatened the independence of our country, knowingly decommissioned military capabilities, knowingly let thousands of our country's defences wind, that is, consciously destroyed the Hungarian defence. Dear fellow Members, In contrast to the Gyurcsányek and with them, the Orbán government has already taken a responsible decision on the development of the force in response to the challenges of the age, which we are implementing in the framework of the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026. However, the currently authorised staff base and staff ratios of the military do not guarantee the need for the organizational improvements planned under the programme Zrínyi 2026, some of which have already been implemented, even though within the limits of the number of staff. The draft decision will increase both the officer's and his/her staff's frameworks and set a maximum proportion of them in relation to the total number of officers and staff, and will modify the number of candidates for military officers and junior officers in order to provide the necessary replacements for the planned tasks. The increase in the number of staff is also essential for the implementation of the new, more modern tools that are increasing by number. The recruitment and retention of crew members is also essential for the creation of a more modern, stronger force. In the event of the adoption of the decision, the number of statuses in the civil population group and the proportion of total numbers will decrease significantly, improving the internal staff ratios of the Hungarian Defence Forces. I am already hearing the gloating thoughts of some of my fellow Members that the rapporteur creates an unnecessary statistical shortage, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the actual use of the framework numbers authorised by this House would, according to the draft, be carried out only on the actual implementation of the tasks for the year, with a proportionate provision of the necessary resources, according to the government's decision. To achieve the final stage, the total use of the 37 650 main status will take place in 2026. The draft decision specifically provides for an increase in the number of volunteers, from the current 8 000 posts to 20,000 posts. The development of the voluntary reserve system of the Hungarian Defence Forces has achieved the goals previously set, the increase of the approved framework is essential and urgent. As I mentioned, the voluntary application of citizens to reserve has been unprecedented in recent decades, which is a success story. Dear Parliament, As MPs, we took an oath to serve the country. This means that it is our duty to support those who also serve the country with weapons in their hands. As part of this, I remind you of what I quoted in my introduction: "The power of the walls is not in the stone, but in the souls of the defenders. I've already added that not only in his soul, but also in his number. I ask that the decision on the number of active and reserve personnel forming part of the development of the force be supported for the protection of the country and for the safety of the Hungarians. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2018-10-16-214	Thank you, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Commission President Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-16-215	Mr. President. Dear House, The number of defenses has been rather adventurous in recent years. In 2002, the number authorised was 45,000, but in 2010 the number fell to 29 thousand. When the Orbán government started operating, it faced the fact that, although Hungary had a reserve in 2010, this was 17 people. More than day, it was clear that there was a serious problem with the country's defence capabilities, because during the period from 2002 to 2010, the Hungarian Defence Forces lost many of their key capabilities, so to speak, but remained only an indicator, such as artillery, armored stock, the mass of the former armored troop transport equipment. And, of course, after Hungary joined NATO, we were also concerned that, by the way, 2% of GDP should be spent on defence expenditure. This is, of course, a recommendation and not an obligation not to misunderstand, it was not a condition of NATO membership, but a strong recommendation, which the Obama Administration did not particularly urge, but the new US administration in Wales at the NATO Summit has provided for the commitment of each country to reach this 2 percent within a closed deadline. Under these conditions... of course, we remember hundreds of tricks, which of course you don't need to know, which the socialist representatives present may recall in their memory, this famous sentence comes from the autumn speech. One of the tricks was that for defence expenditure, Gyurcsány's administration accounted for the pension expenses of soldiers retired with the age discount that they had paid. It does not necessarily require a strategy or military science to be taught so that someone quickly realizes, for example, that this is a trick, because it is quite obvious that pension transfer, wherever it is booked, does not affect the country's defence capabilities in a decisive way to allow me to say so carefully. It was a simple trick, which, by the way, raised the defence budget a little bit, which, of course, did not reach 2 percent, but 1.1 percent, I would add, an 1.1 percent with a much lower GDP. That's what we need to change. We must change because it is an illusion that we are living in a time of history when the country no longer has to prepare for protection. It is an illusion to think that although we are living in one of the longest periods of European history without a large, comprehensive war, we in Hungary, Central Europe have learned that since the regime change, there has been no war in one of the neighbouring countries than there has been a war. So it is obvious that the war in our neighbouring countries is also affecting us, it raises serious security issues, and we know that the South Slavic war and the South Slavic conflict, and now the Ukrainian civil war is unfortunately taking longer overall than we have spent in a warless period. Not to mention the fact that the protection of the country or the security risks raises different conditions and questions than before, since we can see that today the so-called cyber war, the protection of terrorism or the protection of borders now requires us to think of the defence as the real function of Hungary, that if Hungary's borders are threatened by an attack, if Hungary's borders are threatened by a mass breakthrough, then we must also ask for the help of the defence, in addition to the fact that the Hungarian border is normally guarded by police and border hunters. Therefore, both compliance with the 2 percent requirement and the strengthening of the country's defence capabilities require that we increase the number that is now permitted by a parliamentary decision to the Hungarian Defence Office. The number of staff in the current OGY Decision is 31 080 persons and 8 thousand volunteers. Today, we want to increase these borders, not at the same time, but in several steps, according to the way we are able to increase the number of defences. Let us not forget that this expansion of the military staff today is a process under conditions where the salary, future salary increase, career picture is guaranteed by law, fixed, and, by the way, the soldiers are earning significantly more today than in the previous period. The fact is that the uploading of the reserve stock now means that the 8,000-person ceiling is scrapped from the bottom, and I therefore think it is worth supporting the government's idea to expand both the numbers and the reserve stock. Of course, you are right, Secretary of State, the power of defence is not given by iron, but by the man with iron in his hand. However, we cannot deny that it is necessary, in modern times, not only to improve the number of staff, but also to improve and strengthen the technical and technical equipment of the defence. I claim that we need to regain a number of abilities that we have lost in the past, along the lines of a faulty concept of defence. However, this requires very serious improvements. Luckily, this framework has been set by the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026. Not only did he select it, but he who looks at the budget already adopted in 2019 can see that he has also recorded the budget figures that mean that it is step by step, but Hungary is also approaching the so-called 2-percent protection funding rate. I would like to emphasise once again that we have to count on this with an increase in GDP, which means that expenditure on defence is even more nominally than could otherwise be calculated from the rates. I therefore hope that this House will support this proposal. Of course, we know that any increase in numbers is also a task; it is difficult; it is not easy to recruit soldiers, it is not easy to recruit volunteers. Moreover, the relative lack of labour shows a number of opportunities for soldiers to choose civilian careers, or at least to turn to the civilian field, not to mention that EU directives which otherwise influence the operation, conduct and order of service of the defence and the police create strange situations. We remember that, together with my fellow opposition Members, we submitted a proposal that tried to deal with the following situation: the EU expects that if an employer orders overtime or orders extra work for his employee, he must be given leave and cannot be redeemed with money. In the case of the army and the police, it means that if he orders overwork, then the soldier, the policeman, must be given it in free time, this is the main blow of the directive. [[16.30]] We have seen that, under today's conditions, this would cause serious difficulties for the police and the military, and in the previous term, the Defence Committee, which I led, has tabled a Commission amendment to Hungary for a transitional period of 31 December 2019. This main directive is enforced by the fact that a given soldier, a given police officer, who has done the overwork or overwork, is entrusted with his decision to take it on leave or, by the way, to ask for redemption in money. This deadline will expire by 31 December, this year... , yes [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Now, on December 31, 18th, 19th, a new rule would enter into force, when everything could not be redeemed, even if the policeman or the soldier asked for it. This creates a situation where it is worth considering that this deadline is pushed up by the relevant proposals in part before the House, because even if we wanted to, we would not necessarily be able to do so in a short period of time, if the regulation changes, to expand the number of people so that it does not cause difficulties in conducting the service. I'm telling you all this to point out that, by the way, the expansion of the army is not an easy thing. The soldiers take an oath in which they accept that they will protect the country at the cost of their lives, protect the country, and take this very seriously, and even the Hungarian Defence Forces will perform excellently with their own eyes, we have been convinced in a number of missions that pose serious dangers. That is why it takes a certain amount of time and preparation to complete the recruitment work of the defence portfolio. What gives rise to hope or optimism is a similar increase in numbers, the police had a case of hiring 3,000 border hunters, because although the problem was serious, 3089 border hunters were hired, they were trained in the last six months in the last committee meeting by the national police commissioner, and 40 percent of the applicants were inadequate, so they either did not pass the psychological or physical tests. It is not just about what enthusiasm is or what alternatives are, but it is also about the defence service, which is about fulfilling certain serious conditions. It is therefore to be expected that a very intensive, powerful recruitment work will have to be carried out in order for this increased number to actually reach 37 560 active personnel and 20,000 reserve personnel by 2026. I hope that, given that this is definitely not a party political issue, there is a consensus in this, as is the possibility or extension of overwork on the subject that I have quoted is also a compromise. It would be good if there were some cases and such to protect the country, in which we could show voters that we can cooperate in important and key areas for Hungary. So I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-16-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, H/2163. Parliamentary resolution No. 1 presented a proposal for a resolution to the House by the Minister of Defence. To be honest, I would have liked it if the Minister had personally represented the Government on this issue, given that a long-term programme such as the, Zrínyi 2026, thinks that this proposal is necessary in order to be able to carry out the tasks set out in it. I would also have liked for the Minister to appear in the Chamber in person, because then perhaps we could have learned from him what the reason for this enlargement was, given the fact that the proposal did not reveal this. According to the proposal, the number of officers will be 6600, the number of officers will be 10,200, the crew will be 13,200, the number of military officers and candidates will be 800, the number of military officers will be 250, and the number of government officials and civil servants will be 6600. It is proposed that there was a certain 35/2013. Parliamentary proposal [[Németh Szilárd István: Decision!]] which previously regulated the number of staff. The problem is this: this is not the case. The officials of the Ministry who prepared this proposal are most likely to forget about 35/2016. Parliamentary proposal (Németh Szilárd István: Decision!) which previously regulated the number of staff. The problem is this: this is not the case. The officials of the Ministry who prepared this proposal are most likely to forget about 35/2016. (AT-II) 19. Parliamentary resolution No.31, which increased the number of people with a detailed breakdown to 080, and not to 35/2013. (Gr. 16. No. This is very, very important because, although it is true that the parliamentary decision starts with a number 35 in both cases, this is a very important, important circumstance at the moment and I am very happy that the chairman of the Defence and Police Committee is present, because perhaps with his authority we can make this proposal finally comply with the laws and facts, because this proposal says that it will repeal the 35/2013. Indeed, only in 35/2016 there is no repealing provision that would concern the repeal of the amendment to Decision No 35/2013 and therefore the amendment of Decision No 35/2016 will be repealed with effect from the date of entry into force of the amendment. In this way, if this parliamentary resolution is voted by the House, on the one hand, we will have a 2018 OGY resolution and a 35/2016 OGY resolution will remain in force. It is very important that in this house there are quite a lot of lawyers and quite a lot of professionals who also pay attention to questions that are suitable from a legal point of view to be able to obtain legal effects. I would like to point out modestly that I do not wish to be effective in criticising the Orbán government on this issue, because in 2010, when I was involved in the ministry led by Minister Hende, neither Minister Hende nor late Deputy State Secretary Zoltán József Tóth would have been excluded from the framework of the Ministry of Defence. I am very pleased and welcome the fact that Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence and Police Commission, is here and may have an impact on the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, in order to strive to achieve the professional quality of the former Orbán government, and by handing over the leadership of the Ministry of Defence to the soldiers, politics must not lose its need and proposals to the House with which the Members of the House can do something. This proposal is currently inadequate. In 2018, 26,753 persons were in the Ministry of Defence, of which 20,643 were in the army. After the Parliamentary Decision of 35/2016 increased the number of members to 31 080 in 2016, we, as opposition representatives, could think of it, or even think that the Minister of Defence submitted the proposal to this House because we have already reached the number that has already been authorised, and now it seems that Parliament's consent is needed to increase this figure. If we look at the fact that the current budgetary framework and the budgetary resources allocated by Parliament for the 2019 budget year, we see that there is no more to be taken on with one main soldier than there is today, because there is no budgetary resources. [[16.40]] Commission President Lajos Kósa outlined very nicely what the budget situation of the Ministry of Defence after the Gyurcsány government was, at the end of that period, only forgot to say that the second and third Orbán governments had taken down the Ministry of Defence budget by 2015 to the extent that it was a disgrace of 0.76 percent of GDP. Even if the GDP has indeed increased, the difference from which it started and where it came from has not resulted in a significant nominally adequate budgetary resource. Thus, the situation today is that although the Minister is trying to increase to 37 650 the up-to-date framework by 2026 at the Minister's initiative, since it does not provide sufficient budgetary resources for this to be done by 2019, we can actually ask why this proposal came to this House. I have a feeling it's nothing more than to see the Department of Defense doing any kind of activity that can make progress in defense of the country. Mr. Secretary of State began his speech by saying that Mr. He quoted from the Hungarian defence situation in the century and its principles, but the situation is the following. In the words of Prime Minister, during the time of the holy dervishs, battles and wars were indeed determined by numbers, by the number of opposing soldiers, this was indeed the case at the time of the holy dervishs, but today two good programmers can defeat an entire country without any battle having taken place. Today, technology decides that one country can defeat another, one force can defeat another. It's not up to the numbers today. Today, it depends on the fact that technically an army is equipped, there are balanced political relationships in which the surrounding countries and the associations to whom it is linked can help, or perhaps everyone will suddenly become our enemy, and we can have any wonderful technique, or no one will protect us, or become part of the attackers. Thus, technology and a decent, excellent policy will make a country's population feel more secure compared to human material. When we look in detail at the numbers set out in this proposal, it is worth looking at the individual items. For officers, he says that 6600 people are the ones he would like to raise this framework to, but today there are a thousand less officers in the army than is otherwise determined by the framework, and for which there could be a budgetary resource. The increase to 6,600 people is 1,000 more than the previous one. My question is, where do you think you can get this 2,000 by 2026? Because let's see that today in the education system, from which officers can be obtained, these prospective candidates must participate in the higher education system as part of university training. This year, the wallet, in cooperation with the EMMI, assigned 230 seats to start training for 230 officers in this academic year. It was between 140 and 150 people they could hire. This means that they were able to fill almost half of the available space. If this is the trend every year, it would take at least 15 years for the officer staff to reach the number they want; assuming, of course, that after the training, these officers actually start their activities within the framework of the Hungarian Defence Service, given that there is an extremely high level of training at this university and that in civil life, especially engineering students, are highly welcome by multi-company companies and even foreign companies. So, indeed, a very large number of officers do not begin their activities as officers. Let me just say, modestly, that there were 280 points of admission this year. That means the only thing that didn't make him a candidate for office was someone who didn't think of it. This proposal aims to increase the number of petty officers by a thousand. Currently, there are 2 thousand fewer in the petty staff than the current frame number. They could ask where the petty officers can be replaced, because if the proposal would increase its number from 9270 to 10 200, and today there are two thousand shortages, then this 3,000 will come from; because to become a petty officer, it will also have to go through training. This training today is two-way: one is OKJ training and the other is training at the Petty Officer's Academy. At the moment, the number of students in the Petty Officer's staff is 45, and today at the Petty Officer's Academy there are 200 people who can hope to leave the school benches as a petty officer. This will allow us to conclude once again that this roughly 3,000-person gap over the next 15-20 years is impossible to upload to this planned number of 10 200 Petty Officers. And then the number of the crew. As you can see, the number of crews is to be increased by 5,000, which is certainly a very, very saving plan, but at the moment there is also a shortage of 2 thousand, so in the programme, Zrínyi 2020-26, I would like to increase the number of crews by 7 thousand. But what has happened in the last few years? They might ask what makes it possible that the number of volunteers will actually be scraping the 8,000 in seven years, and the number of crews will be unable to reach the legal framework. In addition to the fact that there is no budgetary resources allocated to these numbers, the future crew and the motivational tool system of society are quite different from that of the volunteer reserveer and quite different from that of the contract soldier. In recent years, our countrymen have been motivated to enter the voluntary reserve system for several reasons or from several sources. The first and most important, the largest number was given by the population with an unemployment benefit who received a personal income tax-free allowance when they were included in the voluntary reserve system. This alone has resulted in thousands of numbers. But from there to the number 8,000, what were the motivational tools with which this opportunity was welcome to be used, are our fellow citizens using it? On the one hand, future soldiers are going through an incredibly high-level, wide-ranging health inspection that they can't get in the civilian system today, it would take at least six months. The one-month course they're going to receive a remuneration of HUF 130,000 during this time, they're being relieved of their jobs, they're learning skills during a one-month course that they could get for a great deal of money in civilian life, and the available company that they're going to be among means a wealth of people where they can have professional and human relationships that they can't have in their daily lives. This is how we reached this very nice number in the volunteer reserve population. Unfortunately, this will not increase significantly in the future, because that is about the number of people who are willing to participate in this system in Hungary. In the number of contract soldiers and in the system of contract soldiers, the motivational equipment system has been halted for many years, there is no chance that they will ever reach this 37 650 frame number, and since it is difficult to accept, it is not only necessary for a soldier to come, to be trained, equipped with clothing, equipped with armor, to be placed at work, to pay wages and contributions. For this figure of 37 650, a budget of at least 770 billion [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which this Parliament and this government will probably not make available in the coming period. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in Jobbik's ranks. [[16.50]]
u2018-10-16-218	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-10-16-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to start with what my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm is saying, that if this proposal is really about what is being proposed, that the government intends to increase the number of Hungarian defences to such a large extent, that in the long term it would be about the development and real progress of the Hungarian army as part of a development programme, I think that the minimum would be that Tibor Benkő, the Hungarian government's member responsible for defence, would come into Parliament and present it here himself. The many, many questions that have already been raised are more evidence that there is something quite different here, but I would like to start with a quote that is very similar to what Mr. Secretary of State has been trying to argue with here. I'm sure they'll recognize you, I quote. The uploading of the statuses with actual budget increase is subject to the development of the Hungarian Defence Fund budget, so the actual demand for funds is only at the rate of filling the places, and will only occur if the conditions are provided. A real increase in the number of employees is not planned at the same time as the proposal is accepted. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Perhaps you will find out that this could be the reason for the present proposal, but no, this was the justification for the 2011 proposal for a similar increase in the number of persons proposed by the then Orbán government, and the MSZP did not support the proposal at the time because it had the same problem as the present one, the only difference is that it was then written in the proposal that it would not actually be possible to accept this proposal for a decision. And although we have heard a lot of very strange things about the past here in the State Secretary's Expo and President Kósa's CEO, President Kósa also noted that in 2010, at the end of socialist government, the government spent 1.1 percent of GDP and 1.1 percent of the budget on defence. You managed to reduce this to 0.7 per cent by 2014-2015, and until the said Csaba Hende era has passed, which really has already questioned the basis for its functionality. But it wasn't much better in the field of numbers either. So the last eight years in terms of defence are, in any case, the end of a catastrophic period, that is for sure, and perhaps we will see that the government is moving in some other direction in this area. In the autumn of 2011, the military had 3276 uncharged posts, and due to the staff stop at that time, this was expected to have increased further by autumn 2011. At that time, the chief of the Honvéd General Staff called Tibor Benkő, who was the Minister of Defence in November 2015, there were several of us sitting in this room, at the meeting of the Defence Committee, at a public meeting, admitting that the shortage of personnel in November 2015 was 5,5 thousand soldiers. So after an increase in the virtual staff base in 2011, from 3200 to 5.5 thousand, this was the result of those years. Then, after the 16th increase, we are there now and will surely deny it, I hope, Mr Secretary of State, by admitting, in fact, the exact size of the shortage of personnel per category in the army, as they say, according to sectoral sources, about 7,000 soldiers are missing from the military, which is an astonishingly high figure as it is now, and shows a further increase compared to the past period. If the number of people allowed to do so now is increased by around 6500-6600, then practically nothing else will happen but that from the day after the adoption of the law or the day after its entry into force, from the day after the entry into force of the resolution proposal, this virtual shortage will increase to about 13 thousand people. Forty percent of the Hungarian Army's population. From this point forward, the question really arises, why are you doing this now, what is really the reason for this proposal, when, by the way, the staff, its replacement, indeed, the volume of schooling certainly does not allow you to make progress in this area in the next period as much as you are talking about it now. In addition to the fact that until 2015, this area has been bled out completely, and indeed ever since, Minister of State, since 10 years ago, specific capabilities have been lost in the Hungarian Defence Service, it is very worrying when we look at the rush that they have started. We have heard so many times the slogan of the Hungarian Defence Office, Zrínyi 2026, that they may already know it in the pub at the corner, but only one representative in the Defence Committee doesn't even know what this actually means. We see that you are buying a passenger plane with extra money from the Hungarian Defence Agency. Technically, the used aircraft of a civilian low-cost airline is bought, repainted, and after that, all we can see is that the Prime Minister and his folk orchestra are being flown to the left and to the right. Then, on the grounds that this is in the line of defence, they want to achieve one thing: that the fact that political leaders fly when and where they fly in public can be kept from their own citizens by reference to the military stock or by reference to their own tax-paying citizens. And if anyone had a moment's doubt at the beginning of me, let's be honest that these machines were bought for the reason that the Hungarian Defence Force, including the change of stocks in the foreign service, was normally planned by the Hungarian Defence Forces as a sovereign military force when and when they wanted to, the answer came, because in the summer, as it turned out, the Hungarian Defence Office had to hire aircraft from another foreign country to bring their troops abroad back home, while they were registered, two passenger planes were already in use. In case anyone doesn't know, obviously, the military doesn't use civilian passenger planes for this kind of device, but they do have the types of troop transport machines for that, but for some mysterious reason, you didn't buy them. Then, in the previous period, the helicopter power was virtually gone. It is one thing that there were and there are helicopters that could or would have been able to take off, but it is only enough to think about the year 2015, when the great flood disaster was that, by the way, the majority of the military helicopters that were used in defense would not have been used by the Hungarian Defence Office if the qualified period had not been accepted by Parliament or announced by the government, because those helicopters had no longer had a permit to fly. In this area, too, something has started, but it is really desperate that while they are sending machines out to Russia to be renovated, while, by the way, the plans and the news say hundreds of billions of dollars or no one knows how much they buy turbo-type helicopters purchased from Western Europe. We don't know why. They're the last people they spoke to, they gave us the best offer, so we don't know if they're in a good mood. But the fact that we can't develop a country's defence in the long run, we're absolutely sure. And it is sad to return to the state of numbers and to the presentation, because it seems that since the Welsh summit mentioned by Mr Kósa, when the United States and most of all the United States have made it clear that it will no longer tolerate NATO Member States spending 2 percent of their budgets on defence another parenthesis again, so taking it up from 0.7 to 2 is indeed a miracle, for each soldier and soldier. [[17.00]] So we are in the midst of a period, or in the middle of it, where the Hungarian Defence Office could indeed for decades make a fair, thoughtful, professional development that will ensure the protection of this country. Raising the number of land reserves from 8,000 to 20,000, I'm sure it's not XXI. It means the development of a modern army of the century. Buying airplanes all over the place, then flying the government in secret with it, burning and disarming the entire army, certainly not the long-term 21st. It means the development of the military of the century. And to bring in a proposal, without any real reason, that the existing thousands, minimum 5, but once again, most likely, why they want to solve the shortage of nearly 7,000 people with a further virtual increase of 6500 people, in Hungarian they want to increase the shortage to 13 thousand people, and I think it is not possible to give a sound answer, but we will try to wait for Mr. Secretary of State to say something encouraging in this case. [[István Szilárd Németh: Go, Tamás Harangozó!]] You're very kind, Mr. Secretary. I've been waiting my whole life for this encouragement. I'm glad I came to this debate today. This case is more important than that, Mr. Secretary. If you can say the one sentence here in the walls of Parliament that my fellow Member, Mr Varga-Damm, asked at the beginning why, so what is the reason why you are raising an uncharged number now? I don't want to be cynical, because then the soldiers can do the least they can do, but on paper, raising the army's numbers, what's the point? What? And what's it gonna be filled with? Paper soldiers? My fellow Member has written down here that it is physically impossible. If you could solve what we have been pushing for for years, we have submitted every year a proposal for a decision to increase the number of students, give more money for training, fill up this 30-40 percent shortage first, and then dream big, nothing happened in it. If you can tell me what the real reason for this is and give me a really acceptable reason, then I'll revisit my position, but you can't see that right now. Finally, the substantial part of my colleague Kósa's contribution, which also represents the coercion of the shortage of staff in relation to the overtime problem, is fully open to that. The Defence Committee, as I understand it, has again begun to think together, since the last time the committee president intervened, he has been able to make sure that this is not a problem; he is also a problem in the field of defence. However, I would ask you to take into account that it will cause catastrophic situations in the area of law enforcement, in particular in the field of criminal justice, if we fail to resolve this issue jointly. So for every proposal that we have, we are open to action, which settles this issue with satisfaction from the point of view of the stock. I look forward to your reply to the Secretary of State. We expect a simple answer to a simple question: why do we need to increase on paper the number that is not loaded now? Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-16-220	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the mayor of the political group.
u2018-10-16-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. It is quite amazing that I would like to increase the number of defences on paper again, so in Hungarian the allowed number of people is about 6,500, that the current number is not properly charged. I would also like to draw your attention to what my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm warned you about and asked you, and I would also ask you to repeal the 2016 regulation and the government decision. This is a technical issue, however, but it is true that it will contribute to legal certainty if a new decision is taken. [[Lajos Kósa: It is already repealed. It's not in force. The president's ringing the bell.]] , then the former 2013 should also be repealed, of course, but also related to its entry into force provisions in 2016. As for the increase in numbers, we have to say that unfortunately, we will not have more soldiers because the allowed number will be increased again, because the current stock is not up to 100 percent. So it seems that in order for more young people to feel that they want to serve their country, they would like to be part of the Hungarian Defence Corps, it is not enough to increase the number of people on paper. In order to offer these young people perspectives, of course part of which is that they receive competitive salaries, part of which is that there is a real system of appreciation, part of which is that they can work with modern technical tools, as I think it is, that a new type of socially fair, early retirement pension system should be developed. At the moment, if the number of defences increases only on paper, we can say that they are increasing not the number but the shortage of numbers, as this could reach up to 15,000 people, because, as my fellow Member Harangozó mentioned, Tibor Benkő himself confessed to the shortage of 5500 people, and since then, according to expert calculations, this could reach 8 thousand people. Unfortunately, the situation has been very serious over the past few years, and the Hungarian Defence Office is having a very difficult time coming out of it, since only 0.76 percent of GDP was the defence budget. On top of that, the huge shortage of numbers and the loss of many abilities, and at the moment it appears that it is much more difficult to restore a certain military ability, to recreate it when it has ceased. This is a huge scale in terms of both financial costs and, of course, the stock needs to be re-trained. It is clear that the salary base still does not reach 60,000 forints, which, in our opinion, would be minimally necessary in order to increase the retention power of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Unfortunately, due to the drastic shortage of numbers, we are now talking about 10-12 million overtime per year, which is an over-service and over-work performed by the Hungarian Defence Forces. And allow me to thank the Hungarian Army's staff, the soldiers and the defence workers for the dedicated service they are doing in the Hungarian Defence Corps, again, among the walls of this House. You can see that the voluntary reserve system or the so-called voluntary reserve system, which we still do not know is two separate systems or two branches of the same system, that they were able to upload it, why they could not upload it and why they wanted to determine such drastic numbers in relation to the reserve system. It is clear that so far the few thousand who have served as a volunteer reserveer are none other than those former pensioners who are now entitled to a service allowance. Their contribution, if they do not apply for a voluntary reserve, is reduced by 15 percent, so many of them have volunteered for a reserve service, so it may have been that about 4000-4500 people who serve in the reserve system. But it doesn't seem to be enough for the government, and for some reason, he wants to expand it to 20,000. It is clear that, as a result of the current increase in the number of staff, the numbers do not change substantially, so we can still talk about a huge head of water, there are very, very many leaders in the Hungarian Army, and there are huge shortages in the executive staff, in the crew, but it is also true that the officer's staff is also affected by this, unfortunately. We should also talk about important issues here in the Parliament and in the Defence and Police Committee, such as the restructuring and possible merger of the structures of the Joint Defence Command and the Joint Chiefs, which could be read about in the news. Unfortunately, we know this again from the news, and the members of the Defence Committee have not yet received any information about this, so I would like to initiate it here, in this debate, both with the Secretary of State and with the Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, so that this is definitely on the agenda. [[17.10]] If we are talking about the reserve stock, we have heard exactly that the Prime Minister has set out the construction of a reserve reserve of 20,000 people. It can be infinitely wasteful to create such a so-called parallel force. After all, it is clear that the professional forces are not fully stocked, so at the moment we are talking about a shortage of about 8000 people. CHAPTER XXI The answer to the challenges of the century is not a reserve system, not a reserve system of 20,000 people, but a highly trained and well-stocked professional staff, both with professionals and with the work of contract soldiers. Of course, with more advanced cyber-defense capabilities, it is able to incorporate the excellent mission experience, which makes the Hungarian Defence Service a flexible and modern force. It is clear that the military capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces do not increase with 20,000 reserveists. Sadly, it is certainly not that it is clear that they are trying to force the public servants into this reserve system. I don't think that's clear at this point. I asked the Ministry in writing whether it is true that public service workers or ministerial workers who are about to be laid off must enter the reserve system in order to receive some re-training or to provide them with other jobs. If you set up a reserve of 20,000 people, it will in an amazing way take away resources, money from professional stock. You know perfectly well, Mr. Secretary of State and Chairman of the Committee, that although uniform purchases have been made in the Hungarian Defence Office, we must say to this day that practitioners unfortunately break down from soldiers, to this day there are not many soldiers with boots, and to this day there are still no clothing stores charged. That is precisely why I believe that this should not be provided for a reserve of 20,000 people and that such a stock should be created, but that the soldiers and military personnel of the Hungarian Defence Forces currently serving must be properly cared for. Looks like I'm just trying to increase the stats. In itself, however, this is nothing more than a visual bakery, while the Hungarian Defence Agency needs significant improvements. I would like to point out here that these developments must be made in a transparent manner, because something is considered to be defence procurement, regardless of which, the Defence Committee is required to inform it, give detailed information about this, and, of course, not to press the stamp on civilian assets that are military assets, just in order not to be able to find out exactly how much it costs. And if we are talking about a reserve system, we believe that, in connection with the size of the current force, we would need a voluntary reserve pool of 5 to 6,000 people, a stock with special knowledge of those involved, a stock that is not forced into a system, but voluntarily undertake this kind of service and, of course, provide them with employer benefits, compensation for employers and adequate availability fees. So basically, this kind of increase in the number of military personnel you've put here, we can't support it. It doesn't solve anything, it's just statistics, it's such a waste. In addition, he constantly refers to the so-called "Zrínyi 2026" programme, which, by the way, has not been shown to anyone to this day, there is no properly developed plan for the development of forces, which would continuously present the developments from the battalion level and rest in good professionalism. It is also very important that the defence budget goes up to 2 percent of GDP as soon as possible. The LMP had a concrete proposal for such a decision, which would ensure that this level would be achieved by 2022. We will continue to maintain this, and we will submit it, as the rate of the current increase cannot reach this 2 percent. However, in this way, the defence is facing historical tasks and opportunities, since the Hungarian government has to fulfil this 2 percent. This, however, would provide a historical opportunity to develop the defence, of course not by filling the pockets of my friends, because every single forint of taxpayers that citizens want to protect belongs to the Hungarian Defence Office. In order to estimate the stock, it is essential to over-service, to solve overtime, as under the current law, the possibility of paying overtime in cash would cease in the standby and on-call services from 1 January 2019. We have also tabled a bill to ensure that both the Hungarian Defence Forces and the police forces can continue to pay overtime in cash. I am very pleased that we will have the opportunity to talk in the Defence Committee about how to find a consensus solution in this. This is a very urgent solution. It is necessary to prevent people from leaving the Hungarian Defence Corps and the police forces from leaving in bulk because this opportunity is no longer possible, and therefore the service is inexorable. So I'm really counting on you to talk about it. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State and the President of the Defence and Police Committee, Mr Kósa, to intervene in order to be able to amend the current law as soon as possible. Thank you.
u2018-10-16-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if someone wants to comment in two minutes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Before other representatives speak [[Lajos Kósa reporting.]] Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, President of the Commission asked for a word for two minutes. You have the floor.
u2018-10-16-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am afraid that my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm and my colleague, Mr Demeter, have missed a few things. The 35/2016 parliamentary decision, quoted by you, expired on 1 January of the following year. The 35/2016 parliamentary decision amended the figure of 35/2013. So the only one in force is 35/2013. The 35/2016 is not in force, so when the defence portfolio presented this proposal for a resolution, it did the right thing because it referred to the parliamentary decision in force and not to what we had already repealed. My second thought relates to Mr Bellozó's speech. Indeed, the reason why, in 2010, the expenditure on defence related to GDP decreased in the budget was because of the fact that the pension payments of former soldiers retired with the age reduction. That actually reduced the expenditure. But again, it was an accounting trick, otherwise Eurostat drew our attention to the fact that pension payments, whether used to be a policeman or ex-military, cannot be booked as a defence expense. That's what caused this drop. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-16-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2018-10-16-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I expected President Lajos Kósa to speak, and I am glad that he did not reject me in the end. What you are saying would indicate precisely that, when this proposal justifies the fact that it is part of the scope of Article 35/2013. The amendment to the Parliamentary Decision of 16 May 2016 should have been worded as follows: Parliamentary resolution, as amended on 19 December 2013, which is set out in Annex II to Decision No 35/2013. The President [[17.20]] Because the 35/2013 is still in force today, with the number specified in 2013, and the 31 080 was determined by the 2016 decision. It is true that, at that time, they were still doing what they did with the 16th and the 13th were modified, so it became 30 080, but since the original decision still had the 29 thousand number, it would have been right to write it down in this proposal and I would suggest that the legal coherence disorder should not be left in it by accident, so that the 35/2016 is amended accordingly. As amended by Decision No 35/2013 A decision is hereby repealed or amended. Because then, legally, there really won't be a debate between us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-226	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I'll give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó for two minutes, MSZP.
u2018-10-16-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is truth in what Mr President said on the pension issue. Of course, it was the same in the previous days, so the basis for comparison is that. Let me add two things. On the one hand, the Honvéd Hospital was taken under HM under your control. By the way, it also includes the number of people and the budget, if you look at it as a trick. I don't think there's anything wrong with that either. There's a much bigger problem with what's been going on since then and what's going on in that Honvéd Hospital, for example. That we are discussing the bright future here, the fantastic, Zrínyi 2026, and other things, while in front of the whole country, the excellence institution of the Hungarian Defence Office, NATO's excellence institution, the emergency care department of the 2 million Hungarians, which, by the way, if any real serious disaster or other situation in Budapest were to collapse, would be designed to provide immediate and professional care to the people here. Today, we're going to say he can't do his basics, the chief doctor resigns, and the whole thing falls apart. I think it is important to put these questions on the table, and when we talk about the increase in numbers and the plans for the big future, we also see what problems there are at the moment, because for some mysterious reason, and since 2010, it is especially possible to talk about many problems of the last eight years, but the current very big problems of the defence cannot be discussed for some mysterious reason. I think we should have these, too. Thank you.
u2018-10-16-228	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I will give the floor, if you so request, to the rapporteur, Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-10-16-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wish to exercise the right of rejoinder, even because I have been personally addressed, and the Minister of Defence has also been said by opposition representatives. In the beginning, I would like to say that I did not expect anything else, because the last few years prove to me that the Hungarian opposition cannot be expected on any issue, on any national issue, even when the chairman of the commission asks us to compromise at least to protect the country and to support the development of the Hungarian defence, which is leading to the defence of the country, the security of the Hungarian people, the independence of the country, both in terms of technical, therefore military and defence, if you will, in terms of increasing the number and skills of soldiers. Even now, the speakers have proved that we cannot count on them on this issue, for the protection of the country, for the safety of the Hungarian people. The Benkő Tibor phobia that characterized the speakers, almost everyone, I can understand. The new Secretary of Defense is a four-star general who has been running every ladder from Company Commander for the last few decades and has become Chief of Staff. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Under socialist governments, he was a leader of all forces!]] It is right that during socialist governments he was also a chief of military forces, and we are extremely pleased that he has completed both the Russian and the American academy, so he is fully aware of the doctrine of the two most powerful military powers in the world, and of the activities that can sustain such a giant army. So I understand this phobia, but I would ask you not to try to compete with General Tibor Benkő on professional matters because it will not succeed. Nor was the criticism expressed against this simple, but very profound, and professional, parliamentary decision. We have to respond to some things in any way. The first is what I would like to say to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. The parliamentary resolution that he is talking about was amended in 2016, as Mr President has already said, by 2013. This is the 2016 law that sets out the defence law that the Parliament must take a position on the numbers and internal rates, it has ceased by the force of the law, ex lege, I would like to emphasise once again. There was no need to include anything in this decision, and this decision expired on 2 January 2017 and therefore the Parliamentary Decision No 35/2013 is in force with the amended headcounts. I think it's an important legal explanation, and it's completely discrediting what you said. I don't know how, for example, Louis Simicska gave advice with such preparation. The other thing I would like to suggest to you: to me, a sentence or two about Hungarian soldiers sounded very bad. He spoke so disdainfully, despises the Hungarian soldiers, the university higher education of Hungarian soldiers. I think those sentences are a lot of people who took the armed service of the country, who took that very strong, strongest oath to protect the country, hurt me. But that's not far from Jobbik. They can hurt anyone from seniors to athletes. When I was a school principal, it really bothered me when my colleagues told my students it was child material. I've asked them, if possible, to ignore that rude expression. You called the Hungarians human resources. I find the term human matter just as rude as the term child material. But it is a matter of feeling and of opinion about people. But once again, it's not about his professionalism, it's about his soul and his professionalism, and the way he was wrong about making fun of this parliamentary resolution when he talked about nothing for minutes. I would like to suggest to Tamás Bellozó that he be absorbed in mathematics. Elementary mathematics, third grade, ten thousand rounds, basic operations, addition, subtraction. At the 2002 socialist takeover, 45,000 soldiers, 23 950 soldiers at the 2010 socialist power transfer: minus 21 050. Now 37 650 is defined, so compared to 2010 plus 13 700 people. So it's a very simple story. What you have said about the budget is entirely negated by the 2019 budget, as in 2019 the government is planning more money than ever, and the Parliament adopted the Hungarian Defence Fund. This is HUF 513 billion, this is 86.5 billion more than last year. The Hungarian security, border surveillance plus 150 billion is available, for development 100 billion HUF within the defence framework. [[17 .30]] So all the data you've been citing here has been a simple lie, and you've been trying to cover up the damage from the 2002-2010s in some form. But allow me to give you some information about the soldiers, the military institutions, so that you can remember. In 2004, five barracks were closed: Savaria Training Center, Alföldi Training Center, 5. Airborne Missile Regiment, 5. Kiskun Electronic Fight Company, MH 101. Szigetvári Miklós Zrínyi Mixed Fire Brigade. Three in 2005: 40. Galga Command Insurance Regiment, Kapos Base Airport, Tapolca Training Center. In 2007 MH 11 Hunyadi Mátyás Fighter Battalion, MH 37. ANNEX II Ferenc Rákóczi Technical Brigade, MH 37/4. Török Ignác Technical Building Battalion, MH Béri Balogh Ádám Honvéd High School and College [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] "MH Verőcei Infirmary and twenty other county subsidiary headquarters; releasing all soldiers, soldiers and employees there, or placing them in forced retirement, whose retirement was then virtually cut off to the budget of the military with a simple budget fraud. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, we are used to critical thoughts, but let us admit how much we can believe Márta Demeter, who has just found out today that he has abused the mandate of his representatives. [[Márta Demeter: What are you talking about?]] In a press leak disguised as a written question, he spread that the Prime Minister was transporting his family. Today it turned out to be a complete lie. [[Márta Demeter: Answer my questions!]] I think that, in such a case, you cannot really believe anyone who is so simply and simply, once again, abusing the mandate of their representatives, misinformed them, lying to the press only to be able to abuse Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his family again and again. But also the sentence of not getting proper information from the committee, let's not joke about it: the last time the committee met was for six and a half hours, and it was occupied only with your information. I think it's a pretty big time frame in which not only long, but deep, you could have gone deep on this issue, but you're not interested in finding out this type of information or helping, but you're just doing the whole festival for the sake of trouble. But I could also say that you gave the Secretary of Defense a total of 289 written questions. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention. Márta Demeter: And they don't answer.]] He received written answers to each of his written questions. He asked for access to the file seven times. He spent hours in the Ministry of Defence in mothballs. [[Márta Demeter: Because we had to go there...]] Or in one of the military units, he watched, collected everything he could, noted. So to say that you're not getting the right information, it's another lie and the question of such a political program again. Well, to sum up: so the opposition is still unable to count on us to improve the defence for the protection of the country and for the safety of the Hungarian people. I therefore call on my fellow members of the Government to support this Parliamentary resolution proposal. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] Let us show you how to protect the country, how to serve the Hungarian people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-16-230	Thank you, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Ms Andrea Varga-Damm, from the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title "Deviation-credited" and "Little Colorful" Calvary. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-16-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Every week, I will bring a true foreign exchange-credit story to the walls of this House, because I believe that this is my only opportunity to finally develop the willingness to change these distorted situations by legislation in my fellow members of the Government. The victim of this story is an elderly gentleman who wanted to buy a Suzuki in Miskolc. Besides, this gentleman's daughter is one of the main communications leaders of Fidesz. So you might think that, if nothing else, they could have at least represented the interests of their own employees when it came to foreign exchange issues. You will remember that when Suzuki wanted to sell its stock, especially towards the end of the year, it very often announced the possibility of purchasing the Suzuki installment with zero percent THMs. On all the huge billboard surfaces along the M3 motorway, you could read these adverts from Suzukik, which can be purchased with zero percent APR for years. This elderly gentleman started such a Suzuki purchase and a zero-percent APR transaction, convinced him, of course, at the salon, of what a positive opportunity it would be for him. He signed the contract, took the Suzuki. Then, just a few months after the transaction was concluded, the amount of repayments began to rise, and he began to write strongly about why he owed so much. You've already paid the loan, you've already paid a lot of money on interest, when you and your daughter came to me at once and asked me to see why he had to pay back so much when he bought this vehicle with a zero percent APR. What was to be done, I assessed the situation. Indeed, his contract was to receive this vehicle without interest. Indeed, the monthly instalments were determined, and we were constantly talking about Merkantil Bank, raising the amount of the repayments. Merkantil didn't respond to the calls, we couldn't do anything else, we went to the courthouse, the Central District Court of Pest. Where, at the first hearing, it was found that Merkantil Bank simply took and replaced the first page of the contract, on which it was granted the terms on which it was granted. On the first page there was no signature, only on the second pages, we practically entered the original contract, the bank could not submit an original contract; in fact, we confirmed with all the documents that Merkantil had replaced the first page. In any court of law, if this happened, on the one hand, the judge would immediately sign the case to the prosecutor's office in order to initiate criminal proceedings, and on the other hand, one thing is certain: the bank would not have won this case. Except in Hungary. In Hungary, the Hungarian court was able to describe the fact that the two parties apparently had a different content contract in their hands, but after we could not prove that a contract that was in the bank's hands, which was not original, was not signed by the client, i.e. we should prove the negative, and therefore reject the action. This case is in appeal now, but I brought it here to the House because it's not the first. At Merkantil Bank, it is also a regular practice to exchange cards, to forge data, which is amazing, but it is protected by government that criminal proceedings cannot be brought against them. At a time when such harsh violations can be done without consequences to citizens in a country, why not say that there is no legal certainty for citizens in this country? Otherwise, this morning's vote on the housing savings also shows that there is no legal certainty, because the person who planned to tie it up for a five-year term and then change his housing register for up to 10 years cannot now do so in such a way as to obtain state aid, that is, he did not have legal certainty either, because at the time of the contract he thought otherwise about what would happen. I ask the honourable Parliament and all Members to try to influence the case law on legal certainty and not on the deception of citizens. Thank you for the floor. [[17.40]]
u2018-10-16-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Mr Péter Ungár, from the LMP Group, called the Queen of the West, also applied for a post-scheduled speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-16-233	Thank you very much for the floor. I will speak again on the question of Szombathely, and once again in a Chamber where Csaba Hende, the individual elected in Szombathely, has not mentioned the city's problems since he regained his individual mandate. At the same time, Szombathelyi appreciate the Fidesz city leadership managed by Csaba Hende and his friends, because on Sunday, a few days ago, Fidesz lost the interim election at the Derkovits residence. There was an otherwise decent man nominated by Fidesz, who was not local, and there was a very well-known, very hard-working and very decent civilian candidate, who won with a very significant influence, and I would like to congratulate him for that; he beat more than 15 percent of his fidesz rival. There is a lesson to be learned from this election for the opposition, such as how much we have to neglect candidatecasting, or how good it is if we are not dealing with cooperation discourse, but rather with the creation of a good construction. But let's talk about why the people of Szombathely can count on the city leadership getting out of Mr. Gunner's hands next year. Over Mayor Puskás, with whom we have no personal problems, the time has passed for him to have no concept in connection with the city administration in Szombathely. There are a few things here that I have highlighted several times in the walls of this room. For example, the fact that the maintenance of the Progress Stadium has not been resolved is a burden for the city's budget, which, for example, means that there is no room for mass sports or other sports facilities, and there is no possibility. Or, for example, the developments around Zanati Road have not been realised, the people around the FALCO factory continue to suffer from terrible environmental pollution to say a few, which is such a problem. In addition, I have to say that the programme, launched by the city management, is inefficient, and that higher education, although the city has managed to receive an ELTE logo, is not evolving, but is developing, and the situation is that, although the FALCO factory is there, there are more clothing factories and other factories that no longer employ as many people as it has previously employed. Despite the fact that internal employment is falling and employment is falling, we also need to know that the commuter and thousands of people working in Austria have made rent prices very high and housing costs have increased. Many people spend between 50% and 60% of their income on rent, and there are almost prices in Budapest, as in all Western cities now slowly, since the rental prices are adapted to the Austrian wage level, not to the Hungarian rural average. I will go further: in addition, the deployment of people or Ukrainian and other Eastern European workers to work on these still existing industrial and low-added jobs will also increase the housing crisis with internal migration. The thing is, Tivadar Puskás has to go in 2019. Not because we personally think of him or what we think he is, but because Szombathely has not been developed from point A to point B, they could not tell what point B was, there was no concept. I also have to go further on this, I want to say that this sports development, which was left out by spending a lot of money on Progress Stadium, was a concrete promise that was made by the city's leadership, and it didn't come true: this was the sports complex next to Zanati Road, a complex that would give people in the area something cheaper to relax, almost free of charge, but instead, they spend it on visual sports, and it doesn't necessarily stand out on the tabella, and it even comes up that it's falling out, and it's going down, which I don't think anyone's interested in it, especially those who put so much public money in it. So thank you very much. One of the lessons of Sunday's interim election, apart from the fact that work can win and Fidesz can be defeated is that in 2019 we will defeat them in Szombathely. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-16-234	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
