u2018-05-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Representatives of MSZP, LMP, DK and Dialogue shall not be present in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and György Szilágyi. Dear House, Allow me to pay tribute to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán ; Former President Paul Schmitt (Applause) ; Former Prime Minister Péter Boross (Applause.) ; all former and current public officials (Applause) ; the leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of diplomatic bodies, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, you, Members of Parliament, ethnic advocates, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Under the agreement of the factions, there will be no pre-meeting speeches, interpellations, immediate questions and questions at our meeting starting today. Dear Parliament, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that because of the resignation of Dávid Janiczak, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has nominated Mrs.Potocskané Kőrösi Anita on the national list. The immunity committee had consulted before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mrs Potocsáné Kőrösi's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2018-05-18-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The vacant mandate in question was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 983/2018. By decision of 11 May 2018, Ms Potocsáné Kőrösi gave it to Mrs Anita. This Decision became final on 14 May at 4 p.m. and the mandate was delivered on 14 May. As Mr President mentioned, of course, the immunity committee met this morning to review the necessary documents submitted, and he also saw the statement of conflict of interest of the Member. On this basis, we have been able to establish that there is no conflict of interest against him, so he can exercise the rights of his representatives. The immunity committee unanimously proposes to the House that the mandate be certified. Thank you.
u2018-05-18-2	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether Mrs Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita's mandate is justified. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has unanimously confirmed the mandate of Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, who I ask you to come to the centre of the room and take the oath of his representatives. I would ask Mr György Szilágyi to read the words of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Anita Kőrösi Potocska steps into the center of the room. György Szilágyi reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-05-18-3	I, Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2018-05-18-4	After taking the oath, I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring József to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of myself and on your behalf, to wish our new fellow Member effective work and good luck for the next four years. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. [[10.40]] Dear House, I declare that Dr. Simani Silva, Armenian nationalist, took his oath on May 14th. I would like to remind you that the spokeswoman has previously stated that there is a conflict of interest against her, so that she cannot exercise her rights arising from her mandate as a spokesperson until it is terminated or until the termination is initiated. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits shall be decided on a proposal from the House Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. I would like to inform you that the candidates for ministers have been heard by the relevant parliamentary committees, supported by their appointment. According to Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, ministers are appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister. President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of ministers to the President of the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript.
u2018-05-18-5	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I would like to inform the National Assembly that, on the proposal of the Prime Minister under Article 9 (4) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, Mr. Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, Dr. László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, Dr. Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, Antal Rogán, Chief of Cabinet of the Prime Minister, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Minister without portfolio, Mr. János Süli, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Dr. László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, Mihály Varga, Minister of State Minister of Finance, with effect of 18 May 2018. Budapest, 16 May 2018 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] On the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Rule 16 (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Prime Minister, Mr.Gergely Gulyás, Minister of Defence, Dr. Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, Dr. László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, Dr. Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, Antal Rogán, Chief of Cabinet of the Prime Minister, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Minister without portfolio, János Süli, Minister without portfolio, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, Dr. László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, with effect of 18 May 2018. Budapest, 16 May 2018 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2018-05-18-6	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the ministers' presentation. I invite Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to present the members of his government. [[Márius Révész applauds.]]
u2018-05-18-7	Mr President, Honourable Mr. Paul Schmitt, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister Péter Boross, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have been standing here for the third time since 2010 to introduce the members of the new government of Hungary. A week ago, when I took the Prime Minister's oath, I also explained that I consider the twenty years between 2010 and 2030 to be an era, and I saw it as a unit, not four years ago, when we resumed government at the will of the electorate in 2010. Because the only way to run a country is to have long-term plans. After eight years, we can say that not only the Hungarian government, but the Hungarian people, too, have entered the new era with a spirit of action, courage and innovation. We should thank entrepreneurs who have created over half a million new jobs in eight years. We should thank the Hungarian people who, even in the face of difficulties, took the opportunity to support their families from work again after the difficult years of unemployment. It deserves respect for the public workers, because they have also contributed to the strengthening of the country through their work. We must give our appreciation to hundreds of thousands of young people who have started a family, thanks to them that Hungary has a future. We should also thank our elderly compatriots who have raised today's active and active generation. They gave us the chance to make Hungary better today. As they also thank us for supporting us in our political struggles in the vast majority of them. Dear House, On the threshold of the new era, at the beginning of 2010, nations that looked forward, not backwards. We can be proud that Hungary has become such a country as a result of the joint efforts of the Hungarian people. Hungary and the countries of Central Europe are today the fastest developing region in the European Union. Europe's economic focus is gradually moving east. In 1990, Europe was our future, and today we are the future of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I must stress to you that the stars have long been as well above our country as they are now. This is our chance to start new things. And we have to do that, because after the encouraging first eight years, we're still halfway to work. Deep transformations, serious struggles and hard work are behind us, but in the world a new period has begun, a new technological era that requires an even braver innovator spirit and more changes. [[10.50]] To this challenge, I had to adapt the structure and personality composition of the new government. We all see that the challenges of the new era are not only technological, but also threats of a security and spiritual nature. Europe will continue to be threatened by migration and mass migration for many years, with tens of millions of people ready to go and find their new home on the land of Europe. Therefore, today, we need the strengthening of defence capabilities, the sound surveillance of the border and the smooth management of security risks. Our thousands of years of statehood have been based on Christian foundations since King St. Stephen. The threat of migration, the mass emergence of a culture alien to us, has also brought to light the Christian foundations of our culture who have moved away from the world of faith. In my opinion, the government doesn't protect credit. This is important, but it is not the government's job, but it is our job to protect the forms of life that have grown out of Christian credit. That's why we protect human dignity, family, faith communities, and protect the nation. If this is a minority, it means the end of Europe and the loss of a thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood, so we believe that it is our duty to preserve our Christian culture, to operate our schools in this spirit, and to respect our predecessors in the spirit of this. Dear House, On 8 April, the Fidesz-KDNP alliance won the voter's trust. It is appropriate for me to say to the public that we have always considered ourselves a comrade, political community and not a party of competing politicians. In 1998, we received more than 1.5 million votes, in 2014 more than two million votes, in 2010 and this year 2 million 800 thousand votes. We have a huge political community, it has become Hungary's dominant force for a reason. Our sponsors are present in all the settlements of the country, with county seats, metropolitan districts, large and small towns, villages and counties as well. I'm talking about hundreds of people taking responsibility, taking responsibility for leadership. As members of the new government, there are fourteen of us here before you. Since 1998, 59 ministers have served in three of my former governments from Zoltán Rockenbauer to Zoltán Balog, from Zsigmond Járai to György Matolcsy, from Tamás Fellegi to Miklós Seszták, and at that time I had not mentioned hundreds of state ministers. Therefore, with due modesty, I can also say that we have a number of dedicated, tried and ready to serve. When asked for ministerial work, it is always determined by the tasks in front of the country. We offer you a job and never a position, not the other way around. Today, you are looking at those who are motivated by the tasks ahead of the country. Dear House, Mr President, Although all governments have different skills, different talents and different characters, I have always sought to be ministers of Hungary who have a common passion, and this is Hungary. That is why I have now considered the goal of serving with people who all think that the greatest thing in our life is that we could be born Hungarian. It is also necessary for members of the government to be courageous people who take on spiritual, professional and political debates. Attacks must stand, but we must bear in mind that debate can never be self-serving. The aim is to achieve a good result at the end of the debate, and there is only one standard: a stronger and better performing Hungary. I would also like to say that our government is a European horizon, we serve the nation, but we have a place in Europe. I call on the Minister and the Ministers to work to seek friendship and good relations with the nations of Europe. Hungary is our first, but we also want to strengthen Europe with our work. Dear House, The candidates for ministers were heard by the competent committees of Parliament and their appointment was supported by a clear majority. On behalf of my ministers, I thank the Members of Parliament for their trust. I have asked Mrs Andrea Bártfai-Mager to be Minister of National Property. After 1990, Hungary lost a lot of wealth, with eight years of work, we recovered a lot of things. The Minister will be responsible for developing Hungary's asset management strategy, maintaining and operating strategic assets. I wish him to succeed in the pursuit of your illustrious predecessor, President Ferenc Mádl. Welcome to the government. [[Bartfai-Mager Andrea stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister Sándor Pintér is responsible for the safety of all of us. Thank you for restoring the honour of the Hungarian police, it was tireless and it did not tolerate contradictions when we had to defend the borders. From now on, he will also work as Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister, Head of the National Security Cabinet. Good luck, Minister. [[Dr. Sándor Pintér stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Professor Miklós Kásler will have a special responsibility on his shoulders. Successful Hungary requires educated, stable and healthy Hungarian people. This department demands a Renaissance man, and a man who doesn't fear his own shadow. To see, understand, and coordinate the machine of such a powerful ministry is a task that only a few can undertake. Thank you for doing this. Good luck, Minister. [[Dr. Miklós Kásler stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister Tibor Benkő is coming out of the army's number one military force to become Minister of Defence. We must make up for serious decades of delays now, when our neighbours' armies are well ahead of us; it is not too late, we can catch up with them. I am convinced that there are still huge reserves in the officer's staff. We're asking the Minister to bring them to the surface. We wish you a lot of strength and good health for your work. [[Dr. Tibor Benkő stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] I am counting on Minister János Süli as Minister for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in the government. The expansion of the nuclear power plant is essential in order to preserve the reduction of costs and increase the competitiveness of Hungarian companies with cheap energy. Thank you, Minister, for taking the request again. I wish you every success in your work. [[János Süli stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister László Trócsányi will be responsible for protecting the sovereignty of the country in the field of law, especially European law. We must also appreciate the functioning of our new Fundamental Law and our new judicial system, which was established at the beginning of the decade. The Minister will have many years. I wish you every success in your work. [[Dr. László Trocsányi stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] [[11.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker, The firm approach of the President of the Christian Democrats, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, will also be valuable to the new government. He is responsible for the anchor rope that does not allow us to drift away from our ideal starting points in practical work. I thank you for your work to reunite the Hungarian nation across borders. I expect his work as Deputy Prime Minister and Head of the National Strategy Cabinet in the coming years. Good luck, Minister. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister Mihály Varga will serve in the new government as Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the leadership of the Cabinet of National Economy. I'm asking you to remind us to stretch as far as our blanket goes. Financial stability, predictable budget, low deficit and declining public debt are what we expect from you. Thank you for letting us work together again. I wish you good luck. [[Michael Varga stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister László Palkovics was given the task of innovation, innovation and technological renewal in the new government. This has never been the case in the history of government or the Hungarian economy. We created the Ministry of Innovation and Technology because we also want to be winners in the new era of technology. Here it is no longer enough for the Hungarian economy to adapt, and we must also take the lead in creating and shaping new technologies. It is a great task for Minister Palkovics, but it is encouraging that he has succeeded in both scientific and economic life in his career. Welcome, Minister, to the government. [[Dr. László Palkovics stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister István Nagy is entrusted to one of the most important branches of the Hungarian agricultural sector. The Hungarian land has been supporting the Hungarian people for a thousand years, we must preserve it and pass it on to the next generation. We expect a policy that values farmers, respects work, is open to new technologies, reconciles different types of agricultural enterprises and protects our interests in Brussels. As Secretary of State, the Minister has already worked, and we trust his success as a minister. Thank you for taking the call. [[Dr. István Nagy stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Dear House, One of the dangers of modern times is that the framework of democracy is empty. You can see in how many European countries the distance between people and democratically elected governments is increasing every day. So that this does not happen with us and with us, Minister Antal Rogán will be responsible. I ask you to keep on looking for points of understanding between the people and the government. I wish you every success in your work. [[Antal Rogán stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Minister Péter Szijjártó has had to endure difficult and difficult situations in recent years, and there will be no shortage of them. Hungary needs an independent foreign policy, representing national interests, and an effective foreign economic policy in international economic competition. Continuity and field knowledge are the highest values in international relations, which you have been embodying for Hungary for many years. I wish you every success for the next four years. [[Peter Szijjártó stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Dear House, Your Honour, Mr. President. Old men to the council, young men to battle, that's why I asked Minister Gergely Gulyás. His task is strategic planning, so he needs to see not only ministries but also a whole country. I expect him to coordinate the operation of the ministries, to represent a culture of respect and cooperation, and to develop the techniques of this. This Ministry is also the government's lightning rod, so I ask you to boldly represent the Government's arguments in the debates on Hungary of a spiritual nature both at home and abroad. Let's go! [[Dr. Gulyás Gergely stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that being a member of the government is both a mission and a service. For this reason, on behalf of the government, I promise you that we will serve the nation faithfully, and that we will love our country unreservedly in difficult times. We have been given a great opportunity, and we know that we must accept it with great humility. Soli Deo gloria! [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-18-8	Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 16 (8) of the Fundamental Law, I declare that, with the appointment of ministers, the Government of Hungary was established. Now it's time for the solemn oath of the members of the government. I ask you to hear the ministers' oaths stand. [[The people present will stand up. The commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit and requests permission from the Speaker to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who grants the authorization. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the wardens march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags.]] I declare that, with the appointment of ministers, the Government of Hungary has been established. Now it's time for the solemn oath of the members of the government. I ask you to hear the ministers' oaths stand. (The people present stand up. The commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit and requests permission from the Speaker to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who grants the authorization. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the wardens march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags. ) Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read out the fabric of the oath.
u2018-05-18-9	I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2018-05-18-10	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish the members of the government effective work, good luck and good health, God's blessing. Dear Parliament, Now I ask the members of the government to sign the oath papers. Dear Parliament, Before the historic flags leave, in closing the festive moments, please sing our national prayer, the Anthem. [[They stand up in the room and sing the Anthem together. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at his signal and at the sound of the fanfares. The people present will sit down.]] [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of our festive session. I would like to thank our honored guests for attending the meeting. Once again, I, too, join in the line of congratulations and good wishes, order a five-minute recess before the speeches on the agenda. (Sunning: 11.13 11.28) President: István Jakab Note: György Szilágyi)
u2018-05-18-11	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from Jobbik's group, asked for a post- Agenda address: . As the strongest opposition party, we will continue to fight unbrokenly with the title of "The Strongest Opposition Party." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-05-18-12	Mr President, Dear House, There is something symbolic about the fact that one of the first speeches in the Jobbik fraction of the new parliamentary term is now as it is. Those who follow him can't see that the Fidesz-KDNP chair lines are almost empty. And today's meeting was held with the guests, the high-ranking officials, the high-profile personalities who may have been present as guests at today's meeting, who have basically already left, and I have to say, again, we are talking to the empty benches, which, by the way, calls for justification. It calls for reasons as to how elegant it can be considered, how self-confident it can be considered, how conceited a government which cannot and will not listen to even a five-minute opposition agenda, not to mention what the opposition accepts from well-intentioned, where appropriate, professional councils and typically takes over. The Jobbik faction, together with the party, has become the strongest opposition force in Hungary, here, with the strongest opposition faction in Parliament as well. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] . We are clearly preparing not to leave the smell of gunpowder behind, behind us, and constantly exerting pressure on the government both inside and outside Parliament, we are trying to pass through its system the very clear demands that are independent of policy, whether it is the suspension of evictions, or whether it is sensible fiscal amendments such as, say, the flask baby program, as far as a rental program is concerned, because these would not be political issues in a normal country. We have tried to force Fidesz-KDNP at Commission level to allow these ideas and ideas to be presented to Parliament at least at the level of debate and negotiation. The answer was arrogance, a large vest, an educational attitude, but I must reassure you that we will take on the gloves. And while the Fidesz has been trying to force him onto the voices from the background that have been trying to prevent opposition representatives from taking up their seats, we see through your strategy and tactics. The purpose of this was to put the Fidesz two-thirds into concrete for four years. However, by being here in a manner worthy of their oath, the better Members take up the fight with an active, acting faction. Whether the two-thirds can be broken down in the next interim election, and Hungary is once again one step closer to the degree of freedom that could be expected in everyday life. [[11.30]] I must say that Jobbik's presence in Parliament still has a number of results, taking into account the opposition years. I would like to know, for example, that Fidesz-KDNP is a traitor's residency bond scheme equivalent to net treason [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] Whether Jobbik would have been suspended from the first moment if Jobbik had not opposed the disgusting construction from which Hungary could not have had any national economic advantage, since the Fidesz representative who would have explained why it is worth putting the hallway of Hungarian citizenship on the market in respect of a bond to be repaid with interest because Fidesz-KDNP did so as a market kofa in the previous cycle. I also have to say, as an active action group, Jobbik's team has acted against certified and visible violations already after the 2010 period, when it physically tried to prevent an eviction, accepting its consequences. This will obviously be the first thing that we will try to do - that Fidesz-KDNP will not be able to use the channels and organs dependent on taxpayers' money as its own footage through the amazing rape of public media, since there have been disgusting media relations typical of North Korea, and we have not yet talked about the county paper market and the amazing negative, embarrassing price of lies against which you have lost more than a hundred press cases. I would also like to say that you can expect to meet those who have suffered foreign exchange credit in Parliament, because until my entry rights are banned, we will invite those affected within the legislative framework, but in accordance with the right to express their views, to the meetings of this House, as we have already done, and then you will certainly have to face them. In this spirit, we have already tabled our proposal to stop the first evictions for foreign exchange credentialers, which will be the subject of a debate by the Commission, where the doers will separate from the traitors. And I have to say, during the budgetary debate, Jobbik will be here with an active, active faction, which will bring in unpoliticated professional proposals. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Throw it in front of the House. We expect you to help Hungary's citizens in substantive debates, in line with professional arguments, at least on matters other than political but professional issues, because Jobbik's programme entitles us to more than one million voters [[The president's ringing again.]] together to go through these professional debates hard and harshly. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-05-18-13	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of our meeting today. I would like to inform you that you will be notified of the next meeting of the spring session in the mailbox. Thank you for your work. Meeting day's closed.
