u2018-10-08-0	The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, I will be assisted by Winner Vinnai and notary István Szávay. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. The questions will then take place from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. to approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the victims of health in Orbán. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-08-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, For God's sake, do something! I shall begin with this cry, Mr Secretary of State, and I very much hope that after five minutes I will not hear again what happened during the socialist governments during the eight years. You've been ruling for the ninth year. I began my speech with this cry. This cry is because what led to the death of a man last week reflects the attitude of the Orbán government to today's health care: the surgeon, an excellent doctor, an excellent specialist, was fired, and his patient died. If Chief Doctor Székely could continue to work, a 55-year-old compatriot could still be among us today. According to the news, Minister Kasler is also responsible for the fact that the world-famous specialist could not complete the care of his patients, the operations. After that, until the Prime Minister makes a move, he's an accomplice because of meaningless, reckless deaths. And we cried out again, for God's sake, finally, after nine years, do something! This crime cannot go without consequences, so I filed a complaint on Friday, and we will not stop here. Through this case and through this case, we will charge you with thousands of deaths due to negligence a year in your government, the Orbán government. The damage to the Fidesz government can be measured in the lives of mistrustful, fearful patients and relatives, fleeing workers, ruined health, negligence and negligence. Rats falling from the ceiling, crowded, waiting, crumbling plasters, tens of thousands of people who died from hospital infections, the agony of the Honvéd Hospital, Ajka, the destroyed GP areas, and unfortunately I can tell a long list of the news we hear and experience every week. Scandal and chaos in hospitals, said the Fidesz SAO president, patient care crisis and emergency in health care, say us. Fair care or suffering? Healing or Disabilities? Life or death? That is the question, because the reality of everyday life, a human tragedy, is unfolding before our eyes. The 55-year-old patient, waiting for surgery, begged for his life every day, asked him when he was going to have surgery, and if he got decent care, he would get what was due to him, a Hungarian citizen, then he could still be among us today. Mr. Secretary. So far, the numbers were anonymous dead, but now the tragedy of a 55 - year - old countryman has given face to this suffering. I'm accusing you of murder. I'm accusing the Fidesz government of giving up health care, because as long as you steal our money and spend it on luxury, tens of thousands of people die every year because they don't get the health care they need. Mr. Secretary. Approximately 30,000 people die every year because they do not receive adequate healthcare. If we multiply this by eight years, 240,000 of our compatriots have died in the last eight years because you refused to develop health care. Today I read an analysis of the health situation, and the analysis says that today the health situation in Hungary is like Russian roulette. Do you know what Russian roulette is, Mr. Secretary? We're gonna take a rotating gun, we're gonna put the bullet in the magazine, we're gonna spin the gun, we're gonna raise the gun to our heads, and we're gonna pull the trigger, Mr. Secretary. If we obey the Ten Commandments, then we're lucky to survive, but, you know, health care doesn't require luck. This is not what the Hungarian people deserve, 240,000 of our compatriots. Mr. Secretary. Gergely Gulyás said at the end of the week about the Romanian referendum that every child has the right to a mother and a father, and it cannot be replaced in any other formation. You took a child's father, you took the child of a father and mother, that's your sin. Mr. Secretary. Stop playing Russian roulette with health. I call on you now and I beg you to do something about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-08-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, allow me, of course, to express my condolences to the deceased's family, but I cannot go without saying, honourable Member, that you want to capitalise on political capital here in Parliament from the death of a man. It seems that nothing is sacred to you and that you are in such a hopeless situation politically [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Trying to hold onto such a tragic event, a man's death [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Family...]] And they're trying to make some political capital out of it, and in the meantime, you're yelling at it here at the Parliament meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What exactly are the causes of this case, exactly what medical details have led to this tragic outcome, you will not be able to determine, nor will I, nor politicians, to determine, in a specific hospital situation, in the case of a specific illness, whether there has been omission, failure to do what has been the responsibility, but also the responsible bodies: on the one hand, the hospital itself or the hospital maintenance ÁEC, on the other hand, the Medical Chamber on individual ethical responsibility. [[11.10]] So I'm asking you not to decide if anyone's responsibility stops here. I also reject that you are making false statements here in Parliament as a fact which are not real, which concern the Minister's direct intervention. So, on the one hand, Congresswoman, on the other hand, do not make any false statements about health better than those practicing doctors who can give any kind of advice on this, or who can carry out any relevant substantive examination in this case. I would also ask you to trust doctors in health matters, not to determine your health position, but to listen to those university teachers, professors, practitioners who, according to your order, conduct an internal investigation here, and obviously want to make it public by the hospital or by the State Medical Center. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I will also be happy to answer to Mr Korózs when it comes to questions. But what is the government's responsibility for the hospital? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is the government's responsibility to create better and better conditions for healing year after year. One of the foundations of this is that the hospital can manage with more money. Let's see what kind of resource changes the state's reservation has brought about in the case of this cardiology institute. In 2012, this hospital managed out of HUF 7 billion and HUF 29 million, compared with HUF 9.5 billion in 2016. This means that the hospital's management potential increased from 7 billion to 9.5 billion between 2012 and 2016 by 2.5 billion forints. This means that the government has increased its resources to the hospital by 35 percent, with 35 percent more money than it managed in 2012. At the same time, doctors' wages have increased, while nurses' salaries have increased in parallel, and numerous improvements have been made in the hospital, worth tens of millions and hundreds of millions. What the government can therefore do is done both nationally and here; contrary to what you have done, honourable Member, that between 2003 and 2010 the OECD shows that you were the only government among the developed world countries, among all OECD Member States who have reduced their spending on health, but you, no one else. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You killed a man.]] On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP period has increased, the seventh has grown to the greatest extent, and you know that the 2019 budget that you have just adopted, which you do not support, contains HUF 647 billion more for health purposes than the 2010 budget you have adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the value of HUF 647 billion, and in this hospital, which you specifically asked about, the cost of health care increased by HUF 2.5 billion, the possibility of patients getting better and leaving hospitals healingly increased. On the other hand, you privatized me and closed me down. They shut down four hospitals where no one could recover, not at the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, not at OPNI, not at Szabolcs Street Hospital, not at Schöpf-Mere Hospital, because you closed it. In contrast to the increase in the wages of doctors and nurses, you took a month's wages from doctors and nurses. The fact that 34,000 doctors worked in 2010 and now 40,000 doctors have an active relationship in Hungary means an increase in the number of healers, while you have laid off 6,000 medical workers. This is the difference between socialist health policy and the last eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, MEP Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, asked for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am still under the influence that a man has just been killed in Hungarian hospitals, and the Secretary of State can still explain that everyone else is to blame but them. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Who was killed?]] But the weekend also had other lessons, for example, it was revealed that Viktor Orbán said that Öcsi Puskás is not Hungarian; because if only the Hungarian whose grandson is Hungarian, then Öcsi Puskás is not Hungarian, because his grandchildren are Spanish. But also to deal with news that has been embezzled recently, in recent days, news about Hungarian MTVA: the newsfalse Dániel Papp became CEO of MTVA. You have put a man at the head of the so-called public media, who has been regularly received by the press forgery and the production of completely false news. I don't know how you know this, but the Democratic Coalition was the first in the country to have a final court ruling in his case that MTVA could be called a lie factory. Shortly thereafter, another court decision also stated that Daniel Papp could be called a forger. That's quite a certificate. Of course, fake news production did not start with Dániel Papp, but has been going on for years. The former public media no longer has any other function except to keep the largest possible proportion of the Hungarian people in a lie; or, as was said in the old days, to deceive or adopt statements and opinions in the interests of the party with a wide range of people. That's what the Agit-prop committees were called. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You should know!]] The fact that you've appointed the most famous forger in the country to lead the public media means that you've dealt with appearances. You are proud to recite Bolshevik traditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Why do they stop halfway through, taking on reality? Why don't you rename MTVA for agitprop television? Why not rename the news for migrant news or propaganda news? There's no real news. Anyone watching M1 will never know that Orbán's son is being investigated by the European Anti-Fraud Office. Anyone watching M1 will not know that Viktor Orbán travels on a 17 billion-dollar luxury plane. You won't find out who's watching M1 that a man died in a hospital because of your crime, and they won't even know that Rachel Orbán's watch is worth 12 million forints. Why this restraint, since democracy has already been destroyed? This is the last thing that reminds us of democracy in this country, that we can still say what we think here and now, but, of course, Magyar Television will also not report on it today. [[11.20]] And I would just like to say that if these methods have been so matured in order to eliminate the information of the people, then it is worth asking Erdoğan, who is coming to Viktor Orbán today, because he has imprisoned opposition politicians, journalists and civilians, and he is not trying to pretend to build a depraved dictatorship. I would like to remind you of point 5 of the Sargentini report. You are constantly talking about the Sargentini report as if it were a migrant issue, although point 5 is about you being the loser government of Europe; in the Sargentini report, the lie factory called the public media is about a certain point 5. The fact that you can only see a opposition politician on MTVA channels if you want to dissuade him or even spread the word that he's a Soros agent or maybe a migrant petting zoo. As a spokesman for DK, for example, I can count on about one or two hands how many times I have been on Magyar Television as a guest, even though I think that the 80 billion forints you spend on this lie factory and, let's say, NB III football matches, I think about this, for example, the citizens and taxpayers of the Democratic Coalition are putting their money into this, so you would have the right to see the representatives you have chosen on the screen. If we calculate it, this means that every year you will take 10 thousand forints from every Hungarian citizen to maintain this lie factory. Those who voted for, say, MSZP, Dialogue, DK, LMP, Jobbik or any other party. You don't really care about that, all that matters is that your lies go through the press. You will take this tax money away from us in the future without even being very aware of it. And your one-minute newscast is the lie factory itself. The press conference of one opposition politician has never been published on the one-minute news. I don't know if they noticed. Do you think this is fair or is this dictatorship fair? By the way, public media would be about serving with public money and everyone's money. You're doing exactly the opposite. If you are so openly ignoring the public service, I ask you not to be such cowards and to change MTVA to agitprop television. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-08-6	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond.
u2018-10-08-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We all know that the 2010 CLXXXV on the media. Law regulates the status of the Programme Service Support and Asset Management Fund. 130. I am assisting the representative, because he has reduced his knowledge to television by the Fund's dedicated trust and fund, whose task is to provide public media services, public service, support for social media services, support for the transformation of the public media service organisation, production and support of public service programmes, support for films intended for the first time in the cinema and contemporary music, sound management and enhancement of public and private property in the exercise of ownership rights, and support and performance of other related activities. It operates under the supervision of the Media Council, which we are well aware is elected by Parliament. So they operate in non-governmental subjection and are not party subordinates. This is unusual for you, of course, because you also called the Autumn speech a truth speech, or I don't remember it at the time of the eye shots. [[Moore, interruptions.]] that he would have written an article on this issue that was close to any fundamental rights aspect. We will leave, as I said, that MTVA is not a television if you wish, Congressman, and we will send you the text of the law, of course, let us talk about your propaganda that your party president has lied before and now in the eyes of the people. Not once, but repeatedly, obsessively, constantly. I would quote Ferenc Gyurcsány: I'm sure we've been lying for the last year and a half. You never repeated that in place of your party president at that time. It was quite clear that what we said was not true. What would have changed him now? Why would the content of your speech be different? [[Noise on the opposition side.]] In fact, he also said that I almost died, that for a year and a half we had to pretend to govern, instead we lied in the morning, at night and at night. It's not noon yet, so we don't have a chance for you to tell the truth about this story. I ask you to take this into account when we appreciate your words here. You've also been talking about agitation propaganda. Your party president also spoke about a lefty propaganda in your fall. Once again, I would like to quote:,, Prepare the leaders of the most influential newspapers and their leading publicists to see what they can expect, involve them in this process, learn not to snoop up at every moment and go forward. In this period, you may well remember that this is what we hope you remember, the party-owned communist successor newspaper, the internal political journalist and parliamentary correspondent of Népszabadság. [[Péter Ungár: András Bencsik and Zsolt Bayer where did he work?]] I have one request for you: since you are here, honourable Member, did you receive any training from the Gyurcsányek at that time? I am asking you this especially because, after the speech was released, you suddenly became a member of Gyurcsány's government team and then worked as a journalist again and again as a party man. So much for public service. One more thing about agitate propaganda. We are still vividly remembering the party's uprising, and I want to say the sunrise on public television. You've been a constant questioner on this show in the years of autumn lies. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] According to ORTT's then report, the show was a depressing feature of the balliberal side. Based on the multi-layer quantitative test results describing the numericality of appearances, this was particularly during the most intensive campaign period. Mr Gréczy was actively involved in this. So much for agitate propaganda. I would refer to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, which we have mentioned, which specifically stated that during the campaign period, parties and their participants should be given free access to the public media, free of charge. Another question is who weighs and how much public interest is concerned about the activity or the event you announce. By the way, your title often scares away reporters, but I don't want to give you media education, obviously that's your area of expertise, and you might be able to deal with it better. But the results are indisputable, so the list of April 8th for the public. I would refer you back to the referendum that you once said in your blog that practically by referendum Fidesz prevented the real Gyurcsány reforms from taking place. I believe that the people and their decisions must be respected. It's hard for you to get used to this because you have decades to go by. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. He also spoke before the agenda with the title Szabó Timea, the representative of the Dialogue, on our current affairs.
u2018-10-08-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We would never strive to silence those who disagree with us, Viktor Orbán said a few weeks ago. Today, two years ago, Viktor Orbán liquidated the Népszabadság, a newspaper which did not agree with the fact that Viktor Orbán, Antal Rogán or György Matolcsy were stealing this country, and with which Viktor Orbán was indeed forced to silence it. Let's just remember what happened two years ago. Just two years ago, on a Saturday morning, the publisher suddenly suspended the release of Népszabadság, the employees of the newspaper were excluded from the editorial board with a noble simplicity, and the Internet site was also shut down. Several members of Népszabadság received a letter delivered by motorcyclists on Saturday morning that they would be relieved of the obligation to work. On the Facebook page of Népszabadság they wrote: Dear followers, the newspaper of Népszabadság was informed at the same time as the public that the paper would be closed immediately. Our first thought is that this is a coup. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, It was also a coup, but it turned out that Viktor Orbán was not only against Népszabadság, but he had a carefully planned and coordinated attack on the entire free Hungarian press. The former publisher of Népszabadság, Mediaworks, was then purchased by Optimus Press, a publishing company related to Lőrinc Mészáros, which has since purchased 13 county newspapers and immediately made them the propaganda machine of the government of Viktor Orbán. Since then, these county newspapers have been regularly displayed with the same front page, the same image, the same sentence on their headers, just like in the Rákosi system, although there was still no such level of press management. It is heartbreaking that Viktor Orbán is reviving Hungary in the 1950s, who, before the change of regime, so immersively demanded freedom, freedom of the press and the abolition of the previous system. And what was so painful about Viktor Orbán in Népszabadság? Everything that came out there. It hurt me that he and his closest men couldn't steal quietly and inexorably for themselves, their families, and their buddies, because Népszabadság was there and struck. [[11.30]] He struck at the luxury helicoptering of Antal Rogán and the embarrassing series of lies that followed. That's exactly what the last number does on the cover. He also struck the inventor Antal Rogán, who, together with his two other partners, recorded an invention related to a digital signature in a company, Hungaard Kft., which is backed by a complicated offshore company with Cyprus and Maltese background. The Népszabadság hit Lőrinc Mészáros, his land robberies and the planned and ever since failed the difficult Olympic public procurements in 2022. But Népszabadság was also responsible for finding out how György Matolcsy committed a crime at the time when the central bank set up foundations without legal authorisation and delivered HUF 260 billion in public money to, among other things, his cousin, his mistress, his wife, his secretary who earned HUF 1.2 million net for the management of his mother. We remember the famous saying that he lost his common sense. No wonder, then, that Viktor Orbán was in great pain about Népszabadság. And what hurts us is that the former freedom fighter Viktor Orbán took the path to silence those who disagree with him. In addition, today he is welcoming another open dictator in our country. In the person of the Turkish head of state Erdoğan, Viktor Orbán is now accepting a man who has personally ordered the dismissal of nearly 111,000 state employees and the suspension of 38 thousand people, the detention of nearly 160,000 opposition activists, of which at least 48,000 people were arrested in advance on the suspicion that they had something to do with the attempt to replace Erdoğan. During the last two years, 130 press products have been reported in Turkey under Erdoğan. And this is the man that Viktor Orbán is friends with today, following in the footsteps of this man when, among other things, he closed the Népszabadság. . One of the encouraging indicators of our party's development and political influence is the development of our press. This was not said by Viktor Orbán, but by Mátyás Rákosi on 22 November 1948. Congratulations to Viktor Orbán for his return to this path and to the dust of peace for Népszabadság! Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-08-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond.
u2018-10-08-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, You are in the lucky position that, by your age, you don't remember when I think about the party cards in 1990, in return for a busy donation, you have been played out by an investor group that has always guaranteed that these pages will block civilian development in the coming decades, according to the taste of the mouths of left-wing and liberal parties. He does not recall the fact that the party foundation played a decisive role in the Népszabadság. We can't help it if the left has failed his own card, sold it. He still valued money more than, let's say, political or actually his own ideological aspects. So you've failed the People's Freedom, your readers, your coworkers. He may not have been informed enough that the Népszabadság, after the written press, so to speak, has become a bit of a lander in the last few years with the appearance of Internet interfaces [[Noise on the opposition side.]] He didn't do the kind of adaptation process that the survivors did. [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of opposition parties.]] [[Noise on the opposition side.]] He didn't do the kind of adaptation process that the survivors did. (Big noise in the ranks of opposition parties. ) In the same way, it worked in the same cost structure; it hoped that it would always receive the state crutch that had been achieved during previous Balliberal governments. We all know that you have accumulated some HUF 2 billion in debt. And it can be said that the government is evil, it hasn't intervened or paid off this debt, but if you'd thought that if there was an intervention in the market and the press market, it would have been really bad. (Noise on the opposition side) . ) Unlike your policy friends or your political allies, the government didn't do that. By the way, the Hungarian Nation, which was specifically a civil paper, after the maneuvers of various Vargabes and the private owner, for example, to the deep sorrow of the civil side, unfortunately, is not present in the market today, just like the Freedom of the People. Yet we do not say that the opposition's evil minework caused this process. Or earlier, for the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, or even the Horn governments, the balliberal side never embraced the pages that, let's say, failed in the market struggle, and even did much to make this happen. At the same time, we did not hear any sympathetic words or the lamentation of the freedom of the press on behalf of the Balliberal side. So a little hypocritical and Pharisee behavior, which you testify to in this regard, because technically, when he was a head of government who said that if someone needed television, he should buy for himself, that's when opposition opinions were excluded from the public media and couldn't be published. I would like to draw Mr Gréczy's attention to this moment in his previous statement. But to deal with the other part, what Mrs President mentioned, is that the Turkish head of state is visiting our country: if we look at Turkey and the geopolitical situation of the world, then we can see that Turkey is not a bypassable factor in our region. Practically, if we look at the issues from either the energy policy or migration side, they are an actor in these processes where we are forced to cooperate. By the way, I will ask why you do not whip those western states that buy oil from dictatorships, if any, and receive those heads of state in the same way. Why is he so sensitive to our domestic political relations when this government has always stressed that Hungary is our first, and Hungary's first interest is ours? And what other foreign states can fit into such a cooperation framework, why shouldn't Hungary have access to it? Why should we pay for the type of ideology, again I say, and not to act on the practical aspects of which we would suffer economic damage, which would cause our citizens to suffer losses? We would limit our trade opportunities in a market economy where we have an export-oriented economy, and we need all these relationships. Then, of course, if the world as a whole forms an opinion on this, or the great democracies that you are talking about, but we do not see them at the political level with regard to Turkey, then we need to think about those issues and perhaps consider joining that democratic majority in the same way. But as long as Turkey is treated as a partner by the major Member States of the Union or by the world's leading powers, then let Hungary have the same view of this state. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group also applied for a pre-meeting speech: who did you, Minister, and what kind of gift have you accepted to destroy health care and drive the country towards paying health care? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-08-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State here instead of Mr. Minister. Although the question sounds like a minister, we will still be hearing a State Secretary's reply, but I think that this question should be answered by Minister Miklós Kásler, who has been missing from Parliament for a very long time now, because he is being asked by people, and people are asking for his opinion. They are particularly interested in his opinion because, let's just say, autumn has led to a period of crisis and crisis for health. While the crisis is raging, the focus of all of this in recent days has been an unfortunate lack of care, which was formed in Hungary at one of the leading cardiology institutes due to the departure of the doctor in question; we have heard his story several times, haven't we? I think that Parliament or politics is not the place to go into it, why it left, and what reasons are behind it, but the facts and the consequences of the case must be stated. It is true that Anikó Nagy, State Secretary of Health, resigned because of this, although he said and issued a statement that he was leaving because he wanted to heal. He could have done this in the last four months, for example, because he doesn't have much to do with his name. He doesn't really have anything to show for his own professional work. His portfolio is completely incomplete, or if he has one, he didn't tell the public. But let us also add that not only the cardiology institute has frozen, but the minister has also frozen in this situation. [[11.40]] Practically for days it has not been possible to know for sure about the care in the institution, and probably some level of the patients, some of the amount, some of the people, can be provided by the institute, but when the most important person falls out of care, and there is no team behind it, then the patients or some of the people who work there will be able to see the damage. I think that at least the Ministry should have taken an immediate step in this, but we can see that Miklós Kásler is practically frozen in this situation. Otherwise, it is not difficult to see and move on to larger and larger perspectives as to the direction in which you are going. Due to the delay of the last eight years in the field of health, with more than two thirds of you having had every social mandate to make any reform, to save health care, to put workers on the one hand, those wishing to be cured in the safest possible conditions, yet you have achieved that eight years, now after almost nine years of government, the health crisis, hospitals are in crisis, because they are indebted to you, the proportion of unfilled practitioners in GP care is 8.5 percent, they do not feel safe. And the cases that arise in his process, either in his lips hospital, or in the Honvéd Hospital, or in the Cardiology Institute, all point in the direction that this feeling is otherwise justified. However, it also cannot be ignored that this trend fits well in the fact that public health is deteriorating as we go along, it seems that you are letting it go down, and besides it, private health and paying health are booming, and they are the ones who go ahead. It has to be stated: in this country, patients and workers can really rely on safety when there is a robust public health system. Compared to this, and this is also very clear what you are doing with your background oligarchs, the members of the NER are already lurking towards private health businesses; partly in the background, as Sándor Csányi, who, by the way, János Lázár, we know what he was referring to, but he belongs to your family, your enlarged oligarchater, he has already turned an eye on health businesses. But to say something more symbolic, how the times changed: your sokadik-old State Secretary and the then OEP leader were at the dedication of Hungary's largest private medical institution, private hospital, and from the first row applauded the opening of a private hospital in Hungary. We can also make it clear that one of the results of your work for the past 8-9 years has been that you have chosen to strengthen private health instead of deteriorating public health, and what is probably happening now is that you want to take this money and this huge supply mass, especially to your own oligarchs. So the question arises, because we know that for 30 years, Mr Orbán said that this political corruption clientship reigns and this atmosphere prevails, and it seems to be reaching health, so the question arises why you want to destroy public health. Is it so that the NER knights can get their hands on it? So he can walk like an education, like he's gonna pay for education now? Is that what you're trying to do with health? You want everyone to pay for the tuition from their own pockets now, so that this 30-year-old population will grow your oligarchs? Dear Secretary of State, If you're the Minister, you can't answer, but tell me. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what the government has adopted, what the Minister has accepted to ensure that private health instead of public health [[The president's ringing again.]] enrich the oligarchs instead of public health. Tell me what role Minister has played in this corruption. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-14	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2018-10-08-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I felt that with you, honourable Congressman László György Lukács, there might be a moment of truth. He started at the beginning and at the end of the day he talked about the benefit you assumed would bring to him, the person who caused the damage to public health, and I thought that you would now begin to mention to us that when you, your family company, were engaged in [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] that Hungarian public, public-funded health care is open to all [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It's so unintelligent!]] puts him in a worse position when your main activity, your company's main activity, [[Erzsébet Schmuck: This should stop.]] it was to take Hungarian doctors abroad, so how much did you get? [[Interviews from Jobbik: None!]] We thought you were gonna say that here. You could tell us; we have been waiting for years to find out what the money was for which you said that it was not for the benefit of Hungarian patients [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Listen, you should answer, why are you waiting for an answer? You're confusing the genre.]] He wants to work at the expense of Hungarian patients. What was the money that you received as a fee, dividend, attorney's fee, whatever it was from the company that you personally proudly advertised on the company's website that you were only in six months? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Listen, now you answer!]] Only 62 doctors were taken to Ireland? How much did you get for a doctor? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] How much did he get for the 62 doctors, how, how did he pay you? (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) And then we finally find out, you can call it corruption, you can call it unpatriotic action, you can call it a deterioration of the health situation, there can be many expressions, but at last we would like to know how much money has been received from abroad by László György Lukács, Member of the Parliament of Jobbik, the medical politician of Jobbik. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: None! It'll be on the record. Nothing!]] how much money your own company received from abroad... Did you work for free, Congressman? Are you saying that your company took the Hungarian doctors abroad for free? [[György Szilágyi: You don't ask the questions!]] That's what you say. When you're proud to report that you've taken 62 doctors abroad in six months to Ireland, and you're telling me that you did this for free. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Your credibility, your credibility, is quite questionable. I don't think there's a Hungarian person [[László György Lukács: This is not about my credibility, this is about you!]] Who believes that, on the one hand, you are proud to say that you have taken 62 doctors to Ireland, and you say that you have not received a penny for this, do you believe, honourable Member? No one believes you, nor do they believe your faction. Because when, within the health budget, you should have voted in favour of the additional source of the, Healthy Budapest, the Jobbik faction did not vote for it. From what health care has finally secured in Hungary a surplus in recent years within the budget, Jobbik did not vote for a penny of that HUF 647 billion and then they are hot about why there is no more money in Hungarian health care! This was also the basis for the fact that this hospital, as I mentioned today, would receive an additional HUF 2.5 billion. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] To create a cardio-CT alone, this hospital received HUF 698 million in support; to buy 4 heart motors, HUF 213 million. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: You can't operate without...]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Your credibility, your credibility, is quite questionable. I do not think there is a Hungarian person (László György Lukács: This is not about my credibility, it is about you!) Who believes you're proud to say that you've taken 62 doctors out to Ireland, and you're telling me that you didn't get a penny for that, Mr. President? No one believes you, nor do they believe your faction. Because when, within the health budget, you should have voted in favour of the additional source of the, Healthy Budapest, the Jobbik faction did not vote for it. From what health care has finally secured in Hungary a surplus in recent years within the budget, Jobbik did not vote for a penny of that HUF 647 billion and then they are hot about why there is no more money in Hungarian health care! This was also the basis for the fact that this hospital, as I mentioned today, would receive an additional HUF 2.5 billion. (Interjection from Jobbik's ranks. ) To create a cardio-CT alone, this hospital received HUF 698 million in support; to buy 4 heart motors, HUF 213 million. (A comment from Jobbik's lines: It cannot be operated...) In order to achieve a diagnostic machine exchange, he received a total of HUF 1 billion; he received HUF 651 million for external window replacement and renovation of the building; for lighting and other energy upgrades, HUF 41 million; for training his employees to keep them, for encouraging others to work at the higher level of education in the cardiology institute, forint 78 million; forints with CT, X-ray, multiple X-rays, mobile and fixed location, we tried to improve the quality of care in recent years and not only with the renovation of the building (intercomments from Jobbik's lines). ), Congressman, I'm talking to you. [[The president's ringing again.]] Not only by renovating the building, not only by buying equipment, but also by training the people who work there. And obviously their increased wages are included in the 35 percent surplus, the 2.5 billion forints that this hospital now manages from more. Honourable Congressman, We have to say that today, fortunately, a patient with circulatory disease has a much better chance than it had in 2010, since the number of such diseases has decreased by 5,000 per year. Five thousand people are less exposed to this threat. And one of the consequences of this is that, since 2010, the average age of men has increased by nearly 2 years and the average age of women has increased by about 1 year. The Hungarians have so much better survival chances, and fortunately there is no difference between the average life expectancy in Western Europe and the average life expectancy in Hungary, which was much more than five years at the beginning of our government, and fortunately now this scissors are closing, and much less than five years. That's what we've been doing over the past few years, that's what we want to do. And the fact that you want to capitalize on a man's death [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Shows your hopeless situation [[Intervention from the opposition: Cancel! You know, you have to cancel.]] shows that nothing is sacred to you and shows that the Jobbik has fallen very low again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Imre Vejkey, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled 'Margo of Migration'.
u2018-10-08-17	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The recent years and the events of the past months have been all about the fact that the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate has tried to put more and more pressure on our country. This effort has already been manifest in a conceptual procedure against Hungary in recent days and in the lying Sargentini report itself. The Triumvirate, therefore, wants to continue to force the compulsory reception of migrants, with its immense power and arrogance and its governors. [[11.50]] What if it was not an attack on us, on us Hungarians, but also on indigenous European peoples and nations? What is this if there is no open attack on the Christian civilization that is at the root of Europe? We want to live by the rules and values of our own culture. No one can oblige us to give up our culture and submit, as Western Europe has already done most of the time. Ladies and Gentlemen, Unfortunately, today we have reached the point of destabilising Western Europe. In other words, the old order and the old security that its citizens were so proud of have broken up. Instead, terror and terror are everywhere. The fact is that there has been an aggressive attack on the order and security of Western Europe. The fact is that an aggressive attack has been launched against our national and Christian values. Ladies and Gentlemen, We protect sovereign Hungary and its inhabitants, so we go our own way. And our freedom fights have always been about not making decisions for us. That's why we're fighting our freedom fight right now. Ladies and Gentlemen, We fight our freedom fight so that Hungarian people can live in peace and security. We are fighting our freedom fight so that Hungarian people can continue to confess their Jewish, Christian, Christian, Christian faith without any threat or extra tax. We fight for freedom so that we can decide our Fundamental Law, our border protection, our taxes ourselves. We fight our freedom fight so that we can decide on our foreign relations, including the protection and support of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin and Diaspora. We fight our freedom fight so that we can decide for ourselves who we live with in our own country. Therefore, please continue to support us in this fight for you, for all of us and for our future. Ladies and Gentlemen, Although the first battles have been won, our opponents, as you can see, do not rest. Remember, it's up to us or down whether we'll have a future, whether we'll have a church in the future, where we can go to pray, or a mosque in its place. Therefore, remembering our heroes, let us join together even more, and stand up bravely for our Hungarian country and our Christian values. Finally, allow me to conclude with the thought of Prime Minister: "Hungarian is the one whose grandson will also be Hungarian. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-18	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2018-10-08-19	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Listening to his speech, I thought of only one saying, and this saying reads as follows: unity in diversity. This is the slogan of the European Union, as important as the official anthem of the European Union and its official flag since 2000. The European Commission and the European Union, as defined on their website, mean unity in diversity, and I quote: "The Union unites Europeans to work together to achieve a common goal, peace, prosperity, and to enrich the continent with the diversity of different cultures, traditions and languages in Europe. The quote has lasted so far. So, according to the European Union's own definition, if you can say so, there are two things that are necessary for the success of the European Union: unity and diversity. This is what European integration teaches. Unity and diversity: these two are hypothetical, but without each other they are not viable. According to our assessment of the situation, the European institutional system, which you have mentioned and which you have mentioned, and which is associated with Brussels, Strasbourg, Soros, is unable to see this ancient knowledge of European integration, is unable to embrace the fact that diversity has always belonged to the European Union and that diversity is valuable in itself. This institutional system does not respect diversity, it can do anything to sacrifice unity. This institutional system refuses to acknowledge that European nations think differently. They believe in the nation states, they believe that everyone must thrive in their homeland, and the moral obligation is not to support immigration, but to help them. They believe in freedom of speech in Europe, in which all institutions and citizens can express their views, even opinions that are unpleasant to the European elite. And they believe that European civilisation is a value in itself, the Christianity you mentioned, a Jewish-Christian culture that is worth preserving. We see that instead, the European institutional system serves political purposes that work towards the creation of European united states, so it denies the value of diversity, believes in multiculturalism, is interested in the breakdown of nation states, and is ultimately and deeply pro-immigration. If we continue to divide the European institutions and think of Brussels, we can see that the European Commission is putting proposals on the table that prevent European unity from being maintained in order to eliminate diversity. Let us consider the budget proposal for the next term, which was not suitable for anything but to prevent compromise. Think of the migration proposals, of which the proposals published last on 12 September are not suitable for anything but gestures to pro-immigration political forces and undermine cooperation between Member States. If we go further, let us just think of Strasbourg, the European Parliament, which acts like a lobbying organisation, as an NGO, and the majority of it is liberal, pro-immigration, left-wing, in fact, only acts as a counter-selected political elite in domestic politics, and in fact represents the interests of the opaque, transparent lobby organisations and lobby networks you have mentioned in the course of European Union legislation and in the proceedings against our country. On the other hand, we are committed to the core values of the European Union, to the unity and diversity of the European Union. We believe that the future of European integration depends on how successful our efforts will be and how much Hungarian MEPs support this government effort and how much Hungarian voters can contribute to the fact that the European Parliament, which is renewable in May next year, is finally committed to these traditional European values and participate in our political plan and political work on turning back to European values. Thank you very much for supporting our efforts in this regard. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Why is it good for the government to endanger the security of Hungary by issuing permits to settle in the form of settlement bonds? Member Mrs Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, submitted an address before the agenda.
u2018-10-08-21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is clearly working against Hungary. You are not interested in the security of Hungary, and even the government is taking specific measures that represent the greatest risk to national security, at the head of a prime minister who has not had a national security review in his life. I would like to highlight two important elements of this. One of them is that you have launched a clear campaign against the European Union Border Protection Agency, and all you do is position yourself in the People's Party and bring the Hungarian people into all kinds of internal struggles. However, you know perfectly well that Hungary has continued cooperation with Frontex, the EU Border Protection Agency, and can only work under Hungarian law and the Hungarian command. [[12.00]] This would not change in the future, moreover, the enlargement of Frontex means that a large number of executives who effectively carry out security checks, who are at the border, would be of great help to the Hungarian authorities; it is in the Hungarian people's direct safety interest that this happens. So, since you have cooperation with Frontex right now, in the middle of the great campaign you are conducting, let me ask you if you will terminate cooperation with Frontex. What has been said here in the last few weeks means that Hungary is leaving the Schengen area? Is that the purpose of the government? Because if so, it will adversely affect millions of Hungarians, since from then on they will not be able to travel and move freely in the European Union. So let's face it: do you want to leave the Schengen area? If so, the LMP will use all legal means to prevent this, since this would be against the Hungarian people if this cooperation were to be terminated. You say that the European Union wants to take away the gate key from Hungary, so to speak. You're the one who handed me the gate key. And who did they give it to? They gave it to criminals! Every country has the right to decide who they want to live with and who they don't, that's right. You decided: when the residency bond programme was introduced, you decided to live with criminals and set these criminals free for the Hungarian people. Every week, in the midst of another scandal, we find out that among the 20,000 people who have been rewarded with settlement policies, lifelong residence permits and have not undergone any substantive security checks, countless criminals have been granted residence permits and residence permits for Hungary. And when it is said that immigration should not be supported, it is true that immigration should not be supported. You are constantly taking action against this: 20,000 people have been allowed into the territory of Hungary and the entire Schengen area, including terrorists, criminals and people of counterintelligence. Several cases have already been identified to indicate international authorities, but there have been three such cases in recent years. He's been granted a life-long residence permit with a settlement bond for the Assad regime's money launderer. I also filed a complaint in this case, and the complaint and investigation were terminated by the Immigration Office considering these cases individually. So, according to the Immigration Bureau, he's not a criminal enough to be the money launderer of the Assad regime. In addition to several members of the head of Russian intelligence, a Russian businessman who is known for his mafia connections was granted a residence permit. The Hungarian government seems to belong here now. In Finland, a Russian businessman was arrested for money laundering and tax evasion, who also received a residence permit for Hungary. And don't tell us if we're gonna ask the authorities in another country, or if that's Finland's job. No, that's the job of the Hungarian authorities. The Hungarian authorities, on the one hand, seem to be unfit to carry out checks and, on the other, to carry out a political order, because the founding bond holders were only allowed to make HUF 150 billion through offshore companies by Antal Rogán and his circles, while the Hungarian people only and only now lost EUR 30 billion. Therefore, the establishment permit issued with all the obligations of establishment must be revoked. You have every legal option to do this. So my question is, who does the government want to leave the Schengen area? Exactly how many people have their residence permits been revoked since it was found that criminals were admitted and all the permits issued were withdrawn? If you say no to this, it means that you are consciously endangering the safety of the Hungarian people and you have become an active part of international organised crime. And it is clear about the visit by Turkish President Erdoğan that we would like these discussions to be transparent and finally not about private business interests, since the Hungarian Prime Minister Adnan Polat [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] builds its own family business through businessmen with the tools of the Hungarian state.
u2018-10-08-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond to what has been said.
u2018-10-08-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think it has to be repeated for many times, because the congresswoman repeatedly repeats her question, that in the mechanism for monitoring the residency bond programme, the internal ministry bodies carrying out the tasks always act in compliance with the law and in any case in the interests of Hungary. [[Márta Demeter: They can't do their job!]] I reject your statement that you are unable to carry out your duties. The Hungarian internal affairs agencies perform their tasks well. This can also be seen in Hungary's security. I believe that you are now fighting for the co-chairmanship of the party in your current, latest party, but that is not enough to shake the confidence of Hungarian citizens in any way. Once again, I strongly reject the fact that in the residency bond programme anyone who was a security risk when entering the scheme could have been authorised, since in all cases the bodies examined them and examined the NATO and EU lists, in which these persons were not included. Those who have passed through this filter and are in a situation that makes them unworthy of living in this filter after the purchase of the settlement policy may be revoked. By the way, you have already learned this, as you have acknowledged and repeated it in your speech. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Contrary to you, and contrary to the opinion of the party groups you represent, Hungary is set a single standard: that we can protect this country and guarantee the security of the country. I repeat once again: we can definitely say that these tests are professional. The Hungarian services carried out a professional examination of the participants in the residency bond programme. It also includes the fact that the residency bond scheme itself was nothing more than a very important investment opportunity from a financial point of view. The interest on the loans received before 2010 was more than 4 per cent, with the settlement obligation we were able to save more than EUR 9.6 million during the bail-out and 2,53 per cent interest rate; otherwise, this interest rate is always lower than the government bond interest rates that Hungarian citizens can reach when purchasing government bonds. [[Marta Demeter: There's a $30 billion loss!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you had considered the security of the country so important, you would have voted in favour of the construction of the border closure at the southern border in the party in which you were sitting, and voted in favour of the legal institutions that allowed us to defend the Hungarian border. If they had voted in favour of Hungary attacking the compulsory settlement quota at the European Court of Justice in order to protect the security of the Hungarian people [[Márta Demeter: What are you talking about?]] They should have voted for the amendment of the Fundamental Law, and in the referendum they should have stood up against the quota. If the security of the Hungarian people were really important to you, your MEP would not have voted on 5 April 2017 for a report calling on national governments and parliaments to abolish criminal law frameworks that deal with migration as an infringement. It would not have voted in favour of the document proposing that Member States extend the concept of refugees to those who migrate because of poverty and asked the Commission or the EU institutions to make further EU efforts to establish and strengthen legal routes that would complement the possibility of resettlement. You mentioned Frontex and border protection. I suggest you take a good look, read what Angela Merkel said. Angela Merkel made it clear that EU border protection means that nations should give up their national sovereignty [[Péter Ungár: That's not what he said! Dr. Bence Rétvári: But that's what he said in the Bundestag! Márta Demeter: Do you quit Schengen or not quit Schengen?]] and the European Union can decide who is allowed to enter the border. We won't let that happen, no matter how much it hurts you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for an address before the agenda entitled Current Affairs. [[12.10]]
u2018-10-08-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With EP elections approaching, the debate between pro-immigration and anti-immigration political forces seems to be on the rise. You can see that the Brussels elite is afraid of elections and is afraid of people's opinions. That is why they are forcing them to vote and decide on the next budget in this EU term, to try to take aspects, measures to blackmail Member States, and not least, against the right-wing content that Facebook censores and does not act. You can see it, because last week, after one of the 888 posts, [[Zsolt Gréczy: What?]] After censoring the content of Facebook, which is connected to György Soros with a thousand threads, this is obviously no coincidence either, after this post neither the left nor the left-wing press have raised their voice, even though the election poster of Fidesz in 1990 could have been banned. But it doesn't seem to count as today's left. Immigration is an issue in which the European Union, the elite in Brussels, despite the fact that it has obviously already communicated many things, is still trying to help immigration with these proposals before the elections. As we have heard, the European Commission's proposal in September is precisely about supporting immigration. The statement by the Commissioner for Migration in Brussels in the United Nations is also precisely about supporting immigration. The UN Global Migration Package, which is also supported by Brussels, is precisely about supporting and increasing immigration. This is what the pro-immigration proposals before the European Parliament are about, and this is what the statements of the members of the Soros network are about. The left and the opposition have decided where they stand in this struggle. In this fight [[Zsolt Gréczy: National interest party...]] you have supported the elite in Brussels and support the political forces supporting immigration in this fight. But the disappointing thing is that you not only voted in favour of the Sargentini report, but also István Ujhelyi and Péter Niedermüller boasted that they had handed over a whole document to Mrs Sargentini in order to facilitate the discrediting of Hungary. But the representatives of Jobbik and LMP did not stand up for Hungary, but played a double game [[Tibor Bana: We stood up for Hungary against corruption!]] in fact, they have helped the proposal to pass. Not only did the left support the Sargentini report in recent years, but all proposals in support of migration were voted in Brussels, such as István Ujhelyi, Tibor Szanyi, Péter Niedermüller, Csaba Molnár, MEPs Benedek Jávor and Tamás Meszerics at least 16 times, as Tamás Deutsch said here in the general debate. They voted for all pro-immigration proposals in the EP which not only supported immigration but also wanted to bring more migrants to Europe. Against the will of the Hungarian people, who have stated on several occasions that they do not support immigration, you have supported the compulsory quota, support resettlement programmes and the reunification of the migrant family. In the future, it can be expected that you and your MEPs will support the pro-immigration proposals within the European Union; for example, to remove border protection from Member States, to continue asylum procedures in Brussels, to launch a permanent resettlement programme and legalise migration. They also support the fact that civil society organisations working with smugglers are not punishable. In addition, they want to give more EU funds to Soros organisations working with smugglers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] If it is up to them, the pro-immigration elite in Brussels will not only continue but also accelerate the flooding of Europe with migrants. In addition to the Lisbon Treaty, as you have said that the country has resigned from some of its sovereignty, I would add that it has resigned from some of its sovereignty at that time, but this does not mean that the country must be constantly deposed and the independence of the nation states should be undermined step by step. That is why we will not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The opposition now does not represent national interests, but Brussels, and Brussels not only wants to remove national powers in immigration policy, not only in border protection, but also in other areas, and wants more power for itself. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-08-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2018-10-08-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to an experiment before I respond to the Member's words. The opposition parties attempted to deny exactly what was said about the proposal on Frontex. I would therefore like to quote exactly what the German Chancellor said. He said that he was in favour of States at the external borders of the Union giving up their national competence to give Frontex a truly comprehensive competence. So they give up. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is what Viktor Orbán asked for half a year before him!]] They're giving up, Honourable Congressman. Therefore, Member States' powers would be taken to transfer them to Brussels. The Hungarian Government has never asked for this. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Yes! Six months before that!]] The Hungarian government is against this. On the subject raised by the Member, I would like to refer a little back to the Sargentini reportary debate last week, because it is quite difficult to digest a significant part of what was said at that time. In our view, the significance of the Sargentini report is that it has shown fault lines not only here in Hungary, but also on the European scene, namely on the subject of migration, and there are three phenomena that we see as problematic, above all on the part of opposition parties. Our first main problem is that the opposition is still trying to deny that the migration crisis is a problem at all, even its existence is being called into question. Yet the migratory pressure on Europe remains high, and the only thing that changes in migration is this migration route. They are now reporting a record number of illegal immigrants from Spain, for example, and if someone were to say that this is not our problem, because it is far away, they are wrong because if they were to introduce resettlement quotas, which opposition parties are also supporting in Brussels, then immigrants coming to Spain could also conclude with us. Our second main problem with the opposition's position is that they simply denied the Sargentini report's points on migration, even though they stand there in black and white. We are brought out because we have not accepted enough immigrants; because we have not accepted the quota; because we have put up a legal border lock; because we have punished the organisation of illegal immigration. And they're also bringing us out because they convicted an immigrant in Hungary who attacked the police with stones. Of course, the report kept it quiet, claimed that it was merely a matter of bringing his family over. Our third main problem with the opposition's policy is that, while denying this crisis, they deny the Sargentini report's points on migration, in Brussels, they perfectly fit into the pro-immigration elite there and vote for everything without bone. We cannot list all the resolutions supported without time, but just to give a few typical examples: in July 2016 Tibor Szanyi, István Ujhelyi, Csaba Molnár, Péter Niedermüller, Benedek Jávor and Tamás Meserics voted not only for compulsory resettlement, but also for punishing countries who say no. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Why did you stand at the Juncker board?]] After that, please do not come again with the issue of EU funds in these circumstances, because you would take money from the Hungarians while releasing immigration on them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] In mid-November 2017, it was around the time when we had to vote on a legally binding quota, a quota without a ceiling in Brussels, then the Dialogue, the Democratic Coalition and the MSZP voted in favour of this proposal. After that, they'll try to deny it months later. One of the low points of last week's debate was, by the way, two local low points when Ferenc Gyurcsány talked about fewer immigrants arriving at the southern border. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Less? One!]] Well, the ceiling didn't break. Because the crested eye-shooter only forgot to add that less people arrive because the southern border is already blocked, the border seal against which you personally protested, Congressman. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You have nothing to do with this!]] Nor has it been supported in Parliament, honourable Member, nor has it been supported by the legal border closure. The other local low was when Bertalan Tóth said that they never wanted to turn Hungary into an immigrant country. Well, then, why have they voted for everything that would serve this, 12 times in Brussels and Strasbourg? Dear House, When the Sargentini report was adopted, most opposition parties applauded with joy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] This shows that the country's affairs are still not able to put their own desire for power, their internal political interests and their dislike for Fidesz. [[12.20]] I have the bad news to the opposition that the Hungarians do not support this policy, because they have never supported those who have gone against the interests of the country. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dóra Dúró, an independent Member; Péter Ungár, LMP; János Fónagy, Fidesz; László Hajdu, DK; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; and Balázs Ander, Members of Jobbik. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the parliamentary group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary excluded Mr János Volner from the group on 5 October 2018. I would also like to inform you that Mr István Apáti and Mr Erik Fülöp have resigned from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary today. The Members mentioned above will continue their work as independent representatives. Dear Parliament, At 12:21 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. You, Minister, from whom and what gift did you accept to sell the Hungarian soil to their oligarchs and foreigners? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2018-10-08-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Viktor Orbán, your boss, has acknowledged that he regularly accepts gifts of the magnitude of millions from local government entrepreneurs. It can be assumed that these brutal gifts are not selflessly transferred to the Prime Minister. I could use a stronger term than the assumption, since these entrepreneurs win billions of orders in EU and domestic public procurements, i.e. they became the richest people in the country in some years spent in the Orbán system with taxpayers' money. So there is no need to be a little bit of malice to assume that the private roads and luxury life of Orbán and its environment are very expensive for taxpayers. So the question is, if your boss does all this, he'll take it for granted, and he'll admit it, then how does the rest of the government feel about this urination? Does Méla's fear of silence or perhaps enthusiastic but illegal imitation follow this way of life? This is particularly interesting in your wallet, because during the ministership of Sándor Fazekas, there was a minister who reduced the national land assets. When millions of gifts are accepted, it becomes more understandable why national land assets were not increased, zeroed, compared to previous Fidesz communication. It really makes sense why they changed their minds. It is also highly suspicious that despite the promises made in 2010, there has been no substantial redeployment of agricultural and rural development resources, i.e. the sector still has the most viable 10 percent of development resources. They are filling up with billions of taxpayers who would not otherwise have to spend taxpayers' money on catching up or competitiveness. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: is the acceptance of a million-dollar gift still part of the normal functioning of the agricultural purse, or was it only in the past? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-30	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2018-10-08-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I must strongly reject your malicious assumptions. It is unfortunate that he uses the Earth to make accusations without any basis of reality for farmers! Our program, set up as if it were a process favourable to a privileged person. On the other hand, the fact is that there has never been such a programme, which would have supported farmers and the Hungarian countryside to such an extent. The land for the farmers! The government launched a programme to give the land to those who cultivate it, i.e. the local Hungarian farmers. This goal has been achieved to a large extent, and the programme has also made a strong contribution to the government's goal of increasing the proportion of small and medium-sized estates in the family significantly compared to the large estates, from the previous 50-50 percent to 80-20 percent, according to our plans. The land for the farmers! As part of the programme, tens of the landlords of state agricultural land were acquired by 2014, with nearly 8 thousand people using the same amount of state land as before 2010, which had only a few hundred privileged opportunities. As a result of the extraordinary interest, in 2015 we have made the largest sales of land in the last 30 years, and we have sold nearly 200,000 hectares of state land in 9 months. In public auctions and public announcements, nearly 30,000 of our farmers were able to buy land. This programme greatly promotes the recovery of the agricultural middle class, Hungarian rural farmers and the Hungarian countryside, and strengthens the agricultural economic positions of the small and medium-sized holdings. Honourable Congressman, The publicity of tenders and auctions, the strict legislation and the guarantees provided by them all ensured full transparency of the sales process. I would be honored by the adoption and support of this report, which is still in Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Why are there no data on hospital infections? It's an address. Mr. Korózs, it's up to you.
u2018-10-08-33	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for publication of data on hospital infections was 1 September. I mention this because it is well known that, despite this, the Ministry of Human Resources did not disclose these data, so I also addressed a written question to the Minister, which I have formulated in quite concrete terms, and I have been waiting for answers to be given to hospitals, institutions and years. I am bringing this issue up again because it is not just a month and a half delay here, because my fellow Members know precisely that this battle has been going on here in Parliament for years, because there have been medical organizations that have clearly stated that more people are dying in Hungary today in hospital infection than in a car accident. I will then ask Mr Secretary of State why these figures are still not being made available to the public. True, it was in the written answer, and it could be read from the fact that you actually have no IT program for this, you have no accurate record, and you have absolutely no idea what to do with these data. There is no database that allows people to come forward and make these data public. Again, I would like you to tell the Secretary of State here in Parliament how many people were infected with hospital infections in 2017; tell me how many people died of hospital infections in 2017; and please tell me when these data will be public, as the court has now ordered you to disclose the data. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-34	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-08-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me add so much to your last sentence, honourable Member, and let me take it further from here that the court has ordered us to do so, but the Curia has suspended the execution of this. We fully implement what the Hungarian courts say; although there was indeed such a judgment, the Curia said that until the Curia itself decides on this issue, it will not review the court ruling, its implementation will be suspended. So it is not illegal at all that these data are not disclosed to the data seeker by the Ministry, but that is precisely what is legal, because the Curia has suspended the implementation of this decision. [[12.30]] Precisely because there is a request for specific data where personal data is hidden, but since the name of the institution is listed, the symptoms are listed, the dates are given when the patient is hospitalized, when he is treated, and therefore some patients can become fully identifiable, and this is not only a concern of the Ministry, but also the Curia shared this concern. This is why, at the zeroth stage of the examination of the request for review, the Curia decided to order the suspension of enforcement, but even the second instance court had previously noted that the data requested by the SAO could also affect a circle that could only be obtained with the consent of the person concerned or of the person concerned; there is, therefore, a legal dispute that has arisen in several judicial forms. However, what is important, honourable Member, is that we are trying to move forward on this issue. We have made progress in providing data in Hungary more than most of the European countries, since more than half of the European countries do not have such data, and there are only so many countries as Hungary. During the summer, you could see that regulations were published with a package of measures, with immediate measures, both in the patient bed and in hospital management and in the national administration at the National Public Health Centre, in the tasks that may be carried out by the Chief Officer. In addition, we have tightened up the system of county and district official controls, precisely to prevent future infections. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "When do you admit that you are responsible for the humiliating minimum wage? Mr Sándor Székely has the floor.
u2018-10-08-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Speaker. Dear Minister, You have been saying for years that the economy is raging in Hungary, everything is okay, and people are living well. To be honest, the vast majority of the Hungarian population lives by trying to pay their checks from month to month, working, slaving, perhaps once a month going to the movies, but only on Wednesday, when the ticket is reduced, and in good times, if they save well, they may even get to Lake Balaton for a week with their family for all the other days of the year, months and weeks of misery, disillusionment and apathy. But what can you expect from people who do not earn 320 thousand forints on average gross, as you lie, but unfortunately only 200-220 thousand forints? What can be expected of people whose minimum wage, if declared so, is one of the smallest in Europe, while paying the most in Hungary to pay their rent or mortgage? Do you really want to raise the minimum wage to 150,000 forints when it costs roughly that much to rent an apartment? When petrol is constantly above 400 forints, food prices continue to rise, and by the way, a holiday on Lake Balaton for a week for a family of two children, a family of four, costs more than 400,000 forints? That's incredibly low. But what is most shocking is that even a significant part of Hungarian economic operators will not or will hardly be able to produce this amazingly few increase, as the Hungarian government taxes Hungarian entrepreneurs as much as anywhere else in Western Europe, in capitalist countries. Today, more than a million people in Hungary have a minimum wage. We all know they get money in black, of course, but in 10, 20 or 30 years, when they retire, they won't have a pension, so they're going to live off what their children are going to pay back from London. I ask the Minister, when will you finally stand up to your constituents and say that you are responsible for having so much unpayable credit in this country? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you are responsible for this minimum wage. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-38	Thank you very much. Sándor Bodó, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, please put on the clip.
u2018-10-08-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! In contrast to the mood, I suggest a few specific facts to your attention, namely that the government's primary objective is to increase the wages of Hungarian workers, but in the market economy, wage developments are clearly dependent on the opportunities of the economy, and the bargaining of market players, namely employers and employees, is crucial. The government does not intervene directly in this process, it can help to establish the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, and it can help to reduce taxes. The six-year wage agreement concluded with the social partners in 2016 provides predictability and stability for businesses so that they can plan their longer-term business ideas. However, I would like to draw attention to two specific facts. One is, for example, that in 2017, in a closed marketing year, the social contribution tax fell by 5 percentage points, while gross and net earnings in the competitive sector increased by 11,6 percent. The other is a trend that I also recommend to your attention, namely that since the government change in 2010, real wages have increased by more than 30 percent in the economy and by more than 36 percent in the light of child preferences. Official earnings data are assessed by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, published on a monthly basis, and according to the latest measurement, gross average earnings at national level amounted to HUF 324 700 in January-July 2018, so the HUF 220,000 you mentioned is incorrect. Wage negotiations will continue next year; as I stressed, the negotiations on the employers' and employees' sides are crucial. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Why doesn't the Government take action to protect thousands of people's lives from asbestos pollution that causes death? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2018-10-08-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Contaminant particles released from asbestos cause incurable diseases, such as lung tissue scarring, asbestososis or pleural tumors, lung cancer, and thus end in premature death. Unfortunately, the victims live among us, since the use of asbestos was widespread between 1970 and 1990, especially in Győr House Factory used it in the panel houses of Győr, Sopron, Mosonmagyaróvár, Tatabánya, but asbestos pollution is also found in Budapest, so I can refer to the National Széchényi Library as an example, or the buildings of the City Park and the KISZ KB building built in the 1970s. It is no coincidence that the asbestos pollution survey started in the '90s. According to the then survey, it affects more than 20,000 apartments and can be found in residential buildings as well as hospitals, kindergartens, schools and other public buildings. We also know that after the survey a national asbestos removal programme was launched, such as asbestos removal in Tatabány, but the implementation was stopped by the Fidesz government. I am therefore asking the Secretary of State why the implementation of asbestos removal has actually been suspended, whether the health of the affected population is being examined. It is a very important question whether a re-assessment of scattered asbestos buildings is expected and whether the asbestos removal programme will be restarted, and if so, whether they want to provide an institutional and financing background to this programme. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2018-10-08-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2018-10-08-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand that you are sensitive to the breakdown of the former KIS KB headquarters, but please stick to the facts. On the basis of the recent news, this is not easy, but in order to give the public credible information, allow me to focus my answer on this matter. The government office informed me that in May and November of last year, a specialised company had already removed the dispersal coating of the interior of the building. During the work, air quality control was ongoing, on the basis of which the permitted workplace limits were not exceeded and there was no asbestos fibre detected outside the work area. [[12.40]] In September this year, buildings covered with asbestos slate were exposed, so work here was stopped by the government office. At the same time, I would like to remind you that asbestosic slate in the building under demolition, unlike dispersal asbestos insulation, contains asbestos fibres in a highly bound form, so that emissions from it into the air are unlikely. The government office found that there was no pollination last Friday, that the waste generated was being watered and humidified to prevent possible pollination. The demolition will, of course, continue with a specialised asbestos removal company that will start the work on Wednesday. A specialised company will also carry out the transport of demolition debris which is supposed to be affected by asbestos. The work will continue to be examined by the Government Office in the framework of on-the-spot checks under environmental responsibility, in cooperation with the Office's OSH and labour specialists. The aim is, of course, to protect the health of residents in the area. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to minimise risk. I trust I have been able to divert the concerns with my information. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Erzsébet Schmuck: No! You didn't answer any of the questions!]]
u2018-10-08-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: You didn't answer any questions, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: When will the average person feel the average wage increase? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-10-08-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Citizens, According to the statistics communicated by Fidesz, the average wage was HUF 325 thousand, while the average real wage increase was reportedly 28 percent between 2010-17. Yet, the majority of people do not feel this enormous enrichment in their pockets. You think every middle-class family could afford helicoptering the way Antal Rogán did, saying that half a million forints is a smooth deal. Somehow I don't see Hungarian families flying, helicoptering, but I see a corrupt, thief Fidesz president flying on a private plane. As a former statistician of the KSH, let me give you a little insight into the reality of wages. First, let's look at real wage growth. What, according to labour market statistics that ignore workers in small companies, is a 28 percent increase in national accounts calculated from full data, i.e. in reality, only 7 percent in real wages over seven years. One percent a year would be the big wage explosion. How much does a regular worker make today? Seven out of ten employees earn below the average wage, because the average wage is raised among others by the ministerial salaries raised by Viktor Orbán from one to five million forints and the multimillion-dollar wages of the Fidesz stromones and oligarchs. The wage earned by the average employee, the median wage is not HUF 325 thousand, but HUF 240 thousand gross. The net value of this is less than HUF 160,000. What kind of pay boom are you talking about? In the Dialogue programme, the minimum wage is almost that much, which would be HUF 150,000 net, let's add, with a similar wage cost. Secretary of State, why don't you reduce the world's first wage burden for small and medium-income people? Why are people not given back a just multi-key personal income tax system and why are they not in favour of the introduction of basic income, which would mean an immediate, actual income explosion for workers? Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-10-08-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, you're being driven by your anger. [[Bence of Turdai: The numbers are in control! Péter Cseresnyés: You're lying!]] But I'm still trying to keep you informed about specific things, and I think it's gonna help. In fact, you are right about economic processes, there are different statistical data and, on the basis of them, there are clearly different analyses to be carried out. I recommend to you the official source we call issued by the Central Statistical Office. I think this will help. In the case of actions, the statistics on actions may be the relevant data source for you. In fact, from 2019, KSH will use the data of the NAV to disclose, for information, the data that are factual and not the reason for the debate in public life, but a specific technical explanation, and a thorough methodological preparation of this is taking place now. In its communication, the KSH points out that the earnings relationship can be characterised by several indicators, including average and median, and that this may also have caused some confusion in the assumptions of the issue. The dynamic increase in average domestic earnings is a matter of fact, as is sometimes the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage above average earnings. No one has claimed, nor is there such a way that the distribution of actions is even in any country. This is a general thing, as is the case in all countries, it is apparent that the higher the wage levels than the average wage levels, the lower the number of employees in the range of earnings, the fewer they are. In assessing net earnings, it may be worth taking into account family benefits, the impact of family benefits on net earnings. Please do this, and for your information, the average wage increase in Hungary has been the fastest of the Visegrad countries in the last three years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz [[Voices from DK's ranks, including, oh!]] , to ask the Minister of the Interior what plans does the government have for border protection, how can we ensure that the protection of our borders remains Hungarian and national? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2018-10-08-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In this question, I would like to ask you with a historical parallel. In 1702 there was an adverse change in the fate of the Jász: Emperor Lipót I sold the area inhabited by the Jász, Kunos to the Order of the German Knights. In doing so, the Jász lost their right to freedom and justice, i.e. their own independent right to justice. In fact, it was then that others told them who to live with, that others judged them. However, the jades are not comfortable with this. In 1745 they bought back their freedom and old privileges with their own money. Freedom, however, had a great price. The amount of self-re savior was 500 thousand forints in Rhine, which was then equal to the total budget of Hungary. Indeed, the jades have already lost their freedom and rights once. At times, however, this is what we are experiencing today. Others want to tell us who to live with, what faith to show, and, yes, others are judging us today. Others want to tell who to protect or not to defend Hungary's borders. I think that the parallel is understandable to every faithful Hungarian. If we do not stand at our heels, we may be lost in the sinking of history, just as nations far greater than us have perished because they did not have enough faith, courage to stand up for themselves, for their country, for their freedom and for their independence. I can still see before my eyes the beautiful chair of a small Transylvanian settlement, on which, on December 5, 2004, as the Szeklers say, at the dawn of the day of shame, an old farmer carved it into the gate: "You see, everything can be nothing, and everything can be from nothing. In the words of the old master, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I don't think it can happen again to make everything go away again. In the light of recent developments, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the government has in mind for border protection. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-50	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank the Member for drawing our attention, the Parliament and the House's attention to the perseverance of the jasian people and the efforts made to safeguard their self-determination. Today, we raise our hats to them, and we respect them. Today, Congressman, security is the most important community value, and the security of the Hungarian people is the first for the government. The Hungarian people have been authorized to defend the country, we have accepted the amendment of the basic law, the Stop Soros legislative package, and we have extended the crisis caused by mass immigration. [[12.50]] They are attacking Hungary because they want to take the gate key from our country, but the Hungarian government is committed to not handing over its border control rights. Migration will be the most important issue of the future, and therefore the political forces in Europe will be divided into two camps: supporters of immigration and opponents. Hungary is being attacked because the Hungarian people have decided that we will not be an immigrant country, Member. We protect our borders, protect the Schengen border, and make it clear who we want to live with and who we don't. We won't allow anyone to take a fortune from the law of border control. We know border protection better than anyone in Brussels. In full compliance with EU and Hungarian laws, the Hungarian police effectively defend the Hungarian border and also the Schengen border of the Union. Our borders are protected not only by professionals, but also by patriots, and they form the bond of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the police forces. We also thank you for your successful and effective service to protect Hungary and to protect the safety of Hungarian people. Hungary stands by its obligations in the EU and defends Europe. We will continue to protect the EU's Schengen border from illegal migration and we will not surrender the right to border protection. Thank you very much for your question, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, Mr. Secretary of State, who did you, Mr. Minister, accept and what kind of gift to risk the security of Hungary with the settlement bond business? It's an address. This is for Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2018-10-08-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today, we know that Viktor Orbán not only would have apologized to the country last week for lack of apologies or other humility, but he has confirmed directly that he has been accepting luxury gifts such as travels for 30 years, and even declared that he will do so in the next period. Thus, it is obvious and there is a reason why we should include the rest of your government with a question of who has accepted what and why in the light of your governance. If so, I'm asking all of this as your ministry's settlement bonds. What has been accepted to undertake this many, many, many national security risks, which is unprecedented in Europe as well? There have been many criticisms of your government that both partner services within the federal system and the various institutions of the European Union have severely criticised it not only for corruption but also for national security risks. What, for example, did they have to accept to maintain this incredibly corrupt and risky construction even further at a level that would open an office a few kilometres from the front in the ranks of the Middle East Islamic State, or to publicly advertise this settlement bond business in Internal Africa? What gifts were needed to sustain this despite many warnings and other criticisms, and, unlike their own communication, to install more than 20,000 migrants along with family members? I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr Secretary, if the Minister is not tired. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2018-10-08-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I am sorry that we have to hear the many questions here that are not different from any left-wing speech, even in their shade. This issue has been raised in recent minutes by Congresswoman Márta Demeter. So it will be difficult to deny that they really want to cooperate. I'd also like to tell you that the bond applicants are going through multiple security filters. The Hungarian authorities must examine whether anyone is a risk to Hungary or who is included in the EU or NATO sanctions list. On the economic side of the matter, because you also referred to this: the interest rate on the settlement policy was always lower than the interest rate on the Hungarian government debt at Premium. This also means that the bond scheme has resulted in significant savings. [[László Varju: It's not true!]] I would like to bring to your attention the relevant numbers of the Government Debt Management Centre. Between 2013 and 2017, the Hungarian State could save nearly HUF 3 billion by issuing not only Premium Euro bond, but also a settlement bond. I suggest you pay attention to these numbers. If you really care about the security of this country and the management of public funds, then I suggest that you do not take our advice that you do not cooperate with the left-wing parties. In the last line, do not cooperate, for example, with the Democratic Coalition. I'm bringing this up because it's the 15th. This is what happened in the district by not allowing the locals to make their own candidates, thereby indirectly contributing to the victory of the Democratic Coalition. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] So I could ask you what you got in return, but I won't, because that's not the genre, and you'll be doing it anyway. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gyula Molnár, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How many vacant pedagogical posts are there in Budapest XI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. the primary and secondary education institutions of the district? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Molnár has the floor.
u2018-10-08-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Let me ask you the rhetorical question of whether politics exists, as in, say, hiking and hiking, that one is moving forward and senses that it is going the wrong way. And then he'll make a decision about whether it's worth going on this road, or we'll be better off if we go back, turn back, and go back to the front of the road, because from there, we might be able to better find the goal that we wanted to go towards. You've been trying for years now to have central control that clearly doesn't work. It clearly doesn't work for children, and with a painful heart, I'm telling you, it doesn't work for schools, it doesn't work for teachers. There has been an amazing number war in Hungary since September that there is a shortage or no shortage. What about this area? Maybe I'm in the middle of the XI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. I asked the district, which is likely to be on the sunny side of life from this point of view, and obviously it is much more difficult in a remote small-town school, if any. Mr. Secretary of State knows that I have a written question, and by the way, it's actually about the appointment of a school principal to the Antal High School in Buda in 2015 for whom both the board and parents and students said that they did not. Still, he's there. And instead of cooperating with the locals, this director is in a constant war. Twelve teachers stood up in this school before September. The question is, therefore, whether there is a shortage here, what will happen to this high school, and what is usually seen in this area. If you fit into your life and your time, you'll deny the news that you're missing thousands of teachers at national level. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-58	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-08-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You asked when a politician would have to change direction. Luckily, in democracy, voters make this decision, and every four years they give feedback on whether or not someone is taking the country in the right direction. During the last elections, people throughout the country expressed their views, as well as in the districts that you mentioned, and Fidesz-KDNP was supported in 2010, 2014 and 2018 respectively, but the MSZP was voted quite strongly across the country. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So who needs to change directions, according to the voters, should be the Socialist Party, but because it has not changed, the camp of people who would honor the Hungarian Socialist Party with their trust will melt from year to year or from election to election. A politician should listen to the voters. Why did they do that? I'm sure your educational arrangements were part of this. It included protesting against you, even as school supporter, mayor against students, parents, teachers with various banners. But they did this all over the country, because 15,000 teachers were dismissed and a full monthly wage was taken from all Hungarian teachers. As for the proportion of teachers and students: in 2010, 11.5 children reached a teacher in Hungary on average, and now 10.4. [[13.00]] So now there's more than one child less for an educator. It is possible to decide when there is a shortage of teachers when there are more students for a teacher or when there are fewer students for a teacher. Now there are fewer students for one teacher. This does not mean that in certain schools, for a certain period of time, there is no need to ensure that a teacher with a professional education is also employed. And what you said about Antal the Great High School in Buda, you forgot to add one thing: 11 new teachers started their work at this school, and obviously the summer period is when teachers usually change jobs. It's the least disruption for the school, for the students. So 12 of them left, 11 teachers were hired by the end of the summer, and in any case the specialized is provided by the school district. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with a great deal of love. We'll get back to work. Representative László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is more important: the health of people or the bank accounts of some friends? It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear House, The population of Újpest is in a lucky position to be renovated by a specialist clinic. At least this is what... according to the Magyar közlemény, the Municipality of Újpest received HUF 785 million in the framework of the programme. The reason I put it this way is because when I tried to go after it after details, it was not possible to do so from a place. I wrote a letter to Minister Miklós Kásler and the Mayor, but none of them are willing to tell me what's going to happen. Therefore, I must ask the question here, because the Újpestians would like to know what the reason for the great secrecy is, why we cannot know what the authority wants, what it will do to develop the Újpest specialist clinic. This has been necessary for a very long time. So I ask the Minister, pointing the question to Mr. Secretary of State, what will they spend the nearly 800 million forints, when the clinic will be ready, on what means they intend to obtain. Are they careful not only to have tools but also to have doctors there? Perhaps you are not bound by such professional questions, but rather by who this source should come to? I would like you to respond to this, either Minister or Mayor, because according to reason, the citizens of Újpest should know all this, should be informed, not silenced. Accordingly, I ask you what will happen in the renovation of the Újpest medical clinic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-08-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I wouldn't exactly call it secrecy if we showed something in the Hungarian Gazette. If you had read all the lines of the Hungarian Gazette, you would have seen that it is not nearly HUF 800 million that we spend on it, since it is HUF 785 million, which the state gives, and the municipality adds 10 percent in every case, every outpatient renovation. In this case, it is 48 million HUF, i.e. 834 million HUF for the renovation of the outpatient clinic in Újpest. A total of 13 similar aids were decided at a pace by the government, and this is not the first, but the second. If you had supported, honourable Member, the budget for next year, you would have supported a budget of HUF 41.9 billion to improve, among other things, the health care of the Újpest people. Because next year's budget includes HUF 41.9 billion for the implementation of the, Healthy Budapest. This includes super-hospital developments, co-hospital developments, and special outpatient developments, in Budapest as well as in Pest County, with all the modernizations that are most necessary. Health wage increases have already been decided by the government, so for healthcare workers, both for doctors and for nurses, a noticeable increase in wages has already occurred in previous years. In the case of nurses, it will continue with an increase of 8 per cent in the following year. This complements the renovation of the 54 country clinics that have occurred in recent years and the fact that 23 completely new clinics have been established in the countryside. So in parallel, this program will help you here as well. You asked me, Congressman, what tools and equipment are coming in. Here, let me tell you not exactly next year's results, but this year's results, if you have already asked: four blood vessels, four CTs, three MRs, five X-rays, a digital mammograph, a digital image management system, a linear accelerator, this year the diagnostic system in Central Hungary is enriched. This means that the diagnostic capacity of Budapest and Pest County will increase by 10 percent, only this year, only from the sources of the. Healthy Budapest. This will continue next year in Újpesten, honourable Member. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, would like to ask the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. Is it really a guarantee of safety if we produce electricity in a nuclear power plant? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member and the House that, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister without a wallet in charge of national asset management, which will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-08-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Your government is constantly arguing in favour of the planned expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the use of nuclear energy that Paks is a guarantee of secure energy supply. However, the facts seem to contradict this claim. This year, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant had to be reloaded or shut down more than dozens of times before, partly due to the low water level of the Danube, partly due to the high temperature, and partly due to the various electrical and wiring failures. We are talking about a nuclear power plant, Mr Secretary of State, which has just been through an extension of operational time, the cost of which, we know, amounts to HUF 100 billion. It is assumed that during such an extension, everything was reviewed, if necessary, changed, renovated. At the same time, the procedure for the extension of operational time ended in 2017, so everything is perfectly safe on paper at least now. At the same time, in an average household, if there are some errors that occurred at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant this year, it will certainly be thrown out. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how many of the shutdowns and reloads can be attributed to the emergency weather, the exact cost of the extension of the operating time, and I would like to ask again whether the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is still a guarantee of security of energy supply. Thank you.
u2018-10-08-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is the main pillar of the Hungarian electricity supply in the last 30 years and its extended operating time. Nuclear power produces safely, cheaply and without carbon dioxide emissions. Half of the domestic production, 36 percent of the consumption, comes from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The utilisation of the power plant above 90 per cent shows that the production of the nuclear power plant is predictable and reliable. Yes, therefore, we will continue to consider nuclear energy, including the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as one of the most important bases of domestic energy supply in addition to increasing renewable energies and other energy sources. The quality of safety is measured by testing 83 parameters in an internationally accepted system. According to the international nuclear event scale, only an event of 0 occurred in 2017, which, as far as I know, is the second best result in the life of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Furthermore, Hungary has been paying attention since the beginning to the use of international experience in the use of nuclear energy; all major reviews organised by the International Atomic Energy Agency have been successfully carried out. As a result, safety regulations and the practice of facilities in Hungary are in line with EU and international requirements. [[13.10]] The nuclear power plant intends to maintain a production schedule under the agreement with Mavir. By the way, the total cost of the extension was HUF 40 billion to involve additional public resources. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I didn't have to. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. The confidence of foreign investors in Hungary remains undisturbed? It's an address. Mr Mihály Balla has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-08-69	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The news was recently heard that a new hall was opened at the Japanese-owned Nidec Hungary Kft. in Bercelen, Nógrád County. The value of this investment reaches HUF 15 billion, resulting in the next year's production of 1 million oil pumps for car manufacturing in Bercelen. This is an outstanding opportunity for Nógrád county and the West Nográd region from an economic point of view. In addition, around 240 people work in the current Bercel factory, and in the coming years, around 500-600 people will find work here as a result of the development. Nidec is an international company with a long history, since it was founded in 1945 and currently employs 120,000 people. It produces various products in 43 countries, producing revenues of EUR 12 billion in 2017. Every year more working capital comes from Japan to our country. In 2017, according to the data at that time, the value of Japanese capital investments in Hungary amounted to approximately HUF 1200 billion, which could increase by another 500 billion over the next few years, thanks to new investments. This investment also confirms that the 2010 turn of Hungarian economic policy was correct, the results of which can be seen year after year. International investors trust the predictability of Hungarian economic policy, trust the qualified Hungarian workforce and trust Hungary's stable financial position. It is projected that this process will continue, with the result that more and more jobs can be created and the tax revenue of the state and local municipalities will increase. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that international investments are good for the country. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask Mr Secretary of State whether this new hall initiation is a manifestation of unbroken trust in Hungary. Thank you very much, and thank you for your patience, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, will answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, Let the numbers speak, because the numbers do not lie, and there is no need for any other proof that if we can prove with a nice number of numbers that the volume of working capital coming from abroad is actually increasing year after year in Hungary, we can channel this capital into sectors that create the greatest possible added value here in Hungary, and more and more, as you mentioned through the example of Nógrád county in areas that need it most. Honourable Congressman, In 2017, we set a record of how much foreign capital we managed to bring to Hungary and not to shout it out, but it looks like 2018 is going to be another record year, as we are going to be going to exceed the number 17 as well: in the first half, 46 positive investor decisions were made for Hungary, which means 6700 new jobs and some EUR 2 billion investment for the country in the coming years. These include what we are very proud of in addition to Hungary's positive decision by BMW, which is also particularly important and important from the point of view of the Tiszanyút's first significant foreign investment, which will be able to raise an entire region with itself, a culture of work, an investment of job value that is a huge chance for East Hungary. But let us not forget the county of Nógrád, just as we do not forget: in the last four years we have also been able to generate a new project worth 100 million euros in the county of Nógrád. And even though the unemployment indicators in Nógrád county are not yet reaching the national average, which is considered to be low, I think that we will be very close to it in the next one or two years, because only now there are five new projects in Nógrád county, which, if implemented, represent some 200 million euros of new investment for the county. I ask the Member's further support so that we can bring these projects to Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister, without a wallet, responsible for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who did you, Minister, and what kind of gift have you accepted for concluding such contracts in connection with the construction of the Paks nuclear power plant? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán a week ago a question about flying on a luxury private plane to soccer matches with a person who, thanks to the government, pockets billions of tender money. The adoption of such a high-value gift raises minimum ethical questions, but according to the Prime Minister, all is well said by the head of the government. In view of this, further questions are raised in connection with the case, since he said that this has been the case for 30 years, so it will remain, and it will be. Is it customary for government members to accept high - value gifts in their work, following the example of their boss? And a thousand billion-dollar contract, such as the Hungarian-Russian interstate contract for the construction of new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, rightly raises the question whether anyone has accepted a similar gesture from one of the contracting parties. Of course, it is in everyone's interest to clarify that clearly. So as a representative of the Minister without a wallet in charge of building new blocks, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State whether since Minister János Süli has been responsible for enlargement, he or anyone has accepted a gift of great value from those who may be interested or interested in the investment. Are you aware that anyone would have accepted a gift without compensation in the form of a thing or service in connection with the conclusion of Paks II contracts? Do you, Mr Secretary of State, and the Minister you represent, agree that this is a custom that has been established for 30 years, which is completely normal, and must remain so? I look forward to your honest and meaningful reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Attila Aszodi, Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I must reject Congressman's assumption. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that nuclear power plays a decisive role in electricity supply in Hungary: as we have heard from Secretary General Fó Nagy, more than half of the electricity produced, one third of the electricity used in Hungary comes from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, from the blocks that complete their operation in the 1930s, between 32 and 37 the current blocks will stop, and their extended plant will also expire. As you have heard in this House from the President of the Republic last week during the negotiations on the climate change strategy, the climate protection objectives in Paris cannot be achieved in Hungary and Europe without nuclear power. It is therefore essential for the country to replace the blocks of the nuclear power plant that will be shut down with new nuclear blocks. [[Dr. Lajos Kepli: I didn't question that.]] Hungary concluded an interstate contract with Russia in 2014 for the purpose of this project [[Péter Ungár: Remember!]] and this interstate contract was approved by Parliament itself. [[György Szilágyi: Question of gift?]] When Parliament voted on this in February 2014 [[Complaining from Jobbik's ranks: Gift!]] 90 percent of those present argued for the approval of this contract, including a significant part of the Jobbik fraction. [[Dr. Lajos Kepli: That's not what I asked. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[13.20]] Congressman himself voted in favour of this interstate contract [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I assume that he didn't do it because he expected or would have received some kind of compensation, but because they know how important it is for the country to maintain nuclear power in the long term. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] Congressman, I'd like to ask you a question, and then you'll have the opportunity to ask questions. I'll give you the floor, but right now I'm asking you not to interrupt. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why is it more important to recruit foster parents than to support families in need? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Borbély has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-08-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few years, I have asked a number of questions about how you intend to transform and how you want to help build a foster family network, but I am also being rejected on a number of my questions, citing that the data that I am asking for is available at KSH. I would like to inform Mr Secretary of State that it is not true that these data are not available. You also refer to the data that 90 percent of children under 12 live in foster homes today, not in residential homes, and the best place for children is in the family. We could agree with that, we can't argue with that, for the children and for those of us who are going into the institution, we really need to work to get more people to a family as soon as possible. But, Minister of State, in Hungary, about 23,000 children have been forced away from their families because they could not have done so because they referred to poverty reasons, which we know very well that children's rights are protected and specifically forbid that they could be separated from the family for border reasons. About 140,000 children are at risk of being taken away from their families at any time. Today, Secretary of State, a child can be taken away from the family in a minute, but it takes about five years to get back to his biological parents. Secretary of State, you've launched a campaign on foster care. They don't think it's false that thousands of families have been evicted from their homes recently, we're talking about thousands of children, you're launching a campaign for the foster family network, and you're responsible for not trying to eradicate poverty, not working to keep children in the family, but working to tear them away from their families. Secretary of State, poverty must be eradicated and that agreement must be complied with [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that the children can't be taken out of the family just because they can be considered poor. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-08-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The most important thing for the government is always the interest of children and the strengthening of families raising children. That is why we have launched the system of family tax incentives, obviously you have not done so, but have taxed the families raising children even more, precisely so that there will be as little public burden on families as possible. That is why we introduced the family's home-building discount to make it easier to set up a home. We have radically raised the minimum wage so that the wages and income of families raising children are also higher. It was you who reduced wages in the public sector, it was you who put many, many thousands or tens of thousands of families into deprivation. If you read the KSH publication [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I do.]] which is usually about the issue of poverty, you can see that the risk of poverty or social exclusion has been reduced to the greatest extent in families with many children. So now the families are finally in a situation where the data of the KSH is coming back, which is a year or two late, but it shows that the Hungarian families are in an increasingly stable financial situation. Therefore, do not say, honourable Member, that families are being broken up by force and so on. There is no such thing, honourable Member. We're always looking out for the kids. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: In the eviction?]] For those who have been given up by their parents for some reason, they do not keep in touch with them, but there we want to place them with foster parents or adoptive parents. If you look at how the proportion of children in foster parents has changed instead of the institution: children under the age of 3 have risen from 74 percent to 86 percent between 2010 and 17 years, so many more children have increased from 85 percent for children under the age of 3 to 91 percent for children aged 3 to 6 years, children under the age of 12 have increased from 76 per cent to 85 per cent, and even children with persistent diseases and disabilities have increased from 51 per cent to 59 per cent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is why we also launched the foster family campaign to make sure that the children whose families gave up are in better conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: why do they not act to solve the stench of sixty? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-81	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, It is not the first time before the National Assembly that there is a sewage plant on the borders of Hatvan and Lőrinci, where soil pollution is increasing, the stench is increasing, and today the citizens have become completely unbearable to live in this area. We raised this case several times, the last time the Minister himself promised measures on 15 July, and he admitted to a written question that the Hunviron colony was the cause of this problem, which everyone in Hatvan and around it knew exactly. Despite this, despite the initiation of the public law department of the Heves County Attorney General's Office, there was nothing going on at the Heves County Police Department. It is simply absurd that this problem, which affects people's real estate investments, which means that people around Hatvan can no longer spread around, cannot be solved by the government, no matter what the Secretary of State has promised. The thing is, and we all know that if this sewage plant weren't at the border of Hatvan and Lorinci, but around your house or around the Prime Minister's house, they would have solved the problem a long time ago. It's just that you don't care what happens around Hatvan. He is not in the room at the moment, and there was no representative of Parliament in the region today, who has not raised this problem again. I would like to ask you specifically what kind of investigations the government office has carried out. Why couldn't the police and the D.A.'s office take action if the Hunviron colony didn't comply with environmental standards? I would also like to ask you why, after the local government has already placed stink traps and has really done a lot of things, you cannot take action, why you cannot enforce the right to a healthy environment laid down in your own Fundamental Law for people living in and around Hatvan. Why is it that you continue to wait and wait for the state to carry out its most fundamental task in and around Hatvan? Why don't you do something? Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2018-10-08-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, will give you the answer to the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As I said in response to his interview in June, the Government Office will use and use all legal options to solve the problem. Based on the survey of the territorial environmental authority, the cause of the complaints is likely to be Hunviron Kft. Stinky pollution of Lorrinc's colony. I would like to remind Congressman that the 60-hectare settlement, whose recultivation is the Kft. Ends up with slag, ash, rubber mill waste and municipal waste from millions of cubic metres of coal-fired power plant. Several procedures have been initiated to eliminate irregularities detected at the controls. The Authority ordered the company to take the necessary measures in a decision. On 28 August 2018, due to oily contamination in the vicinity of the site, the company was immediately banned from supplying waste to the site and ordered to remedy the damage, which is currently in the final phase. The Metropolitan Disaster Protection Directorate is also prosecuting the company, and the Heves County Attorney General has also initiated criminal proceedings. On 3 October 2018, a complete environmental review was carried out, subject to the prohibition of further collection and treatment of waste in establishments not covered by the permit. The Authority repeatedly rejected the application for an extension of the company's capacity because of the above. I have tried to tell you how much solving the problem caused by the size of the activity is a great task for all of us. [[13.30]] The immediate cessation of operation of the site would not result in the cessation of stink pollution, but only by implementing appropriate technological solutions to reduce the smell of activity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is what the Authority intends to achieve with its decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-08-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question:, who did you, Prime Minister, and what gift did you receive to prevent Trianon Memorial Year from being on the 100th anniversary of the peace dictatorship, contrary to their promise? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister has entrusted Minister Miklós Kásler, the Minister of Human Resources, with responsibility and competence to answer the question, and that Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It seems once again that Fidesz's 30-year-old self emerged, at least it's hard to interpret otherwise that you didn't support last week [[György Szilágyi: Who voted with DK?]] 2020 Trianon Memorial Year. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] We remember June 4, 1990: the representatives of Fidesz withdrew from Trianon Memorial Day. Or we also remember the betrayal that, despite the promise of Tusnad Bath, you voted for Romania's unconditional accession to the EU, betraying the Szekler autonomy issue. (György Szilágyi: Shame!) But let's get back to the Memorial Year. Trianon Memorial Year isn't about something, it's about something, something. It is not nostalgia, it is certainly not a celebration, as you are trying to make it the 4th of June, but an active memory, which from the past looks to the future, because it is our job to make our country proud and strong again in the consciousness of Hungarians. This is also the goal of the Memorial Year, which you have rejected for the longest time. For the manyth time, last year, the Fidesz majority of the National Assembly Committee rejected the proposal, saying that they would submit it themselves in modified form in the autumn. After they did not do so, we submitted it again and repeated it twice; your rejection was repeated twice. It is telling that all of the parliamentary parties, except for the Gyurcsány-Orbán axis, supported our proposal. They supported him even then and even though we disagree on a lot of things, and we understand many things differently. The thing is, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members of the Fidesz, that you are on the same side with the Hungarian hater Ferenc Gyurcsány. Dear Secretary of State, You can tell me about what it feels like to be on a platform with the nation-hating Ferenc Gyurcsány. You alleged nationals did this. How does that feel? Tell me about it. Finally, just one question: why didn't you support worthy commemoration and insight into the future on the hundredth anniversary of the peace dictatorship? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2018-10-08-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that your national commitment to your former groupmate, János Volner, has been quite a cover-up for the past week. [[Márton Gyöngyösi:...you will also know him. He's a nice young man.]] Jobbik is completely out of line with national policy. And you have also spoken in a way, not by you, but by some of your party leaders, that Hungarians across the border will sell their votes for three forints, and you have spoken of Hungarians across the border in a similar, very disdainful tone, just because they did not vote for you, but supported Fidesz-KDNP. For you, a good Hungarian who votes for Jobbik and does not vote for Jobbik is not a good Hungarian. This is your national policy. [[György Szilágyi: Problems with understanding the text! That wasn't the question. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary has a memorial committee in the First World War, whose working time is up until the anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship. Obviously, this committee not only organises World War I commemorations of our heroic dead, but also preparations for the anniversary of the peace dictatorship. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Maybe Parliament is worth as much as a memorial committee, isn't it? György Szilágyi: Why didn't you accept this? That was the question. Why didn't you accept that?]] Let us not forget that in 2010, we adopted our law on witnessing for national cohesion. I think it's all laid down in this. [[Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, including György Szilágyi: Why did you vote with DK and not accept it?]] We can remember the vote on dual citizenship, which only the president of Jobbik missed because he was interviewing at the cafeteria, and it was more important for him to have an article published. [[Gergely Farkas: That was not the question! The president's ringing the bell.]] as the citizenship of Hungarians across the border. [[Gergely Farkas: Why did you vote with Gyurgy? That's the question!]] Since 2010, June 4th is the day of national integration. In our Fundamental Law, which Jobbik did not vote for, we take responsibility for the interests of Hungarians across the border. [[Gergely Farkas: Why did you vote with Gyurgy? Answer that.]] These are all important and the interests of Hungarians across borders [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] measures to heal Trianon wounds, such as the granting of suffrage or the granting of citizenship and the expansion of the nation to a million Hungarians across borders. These commemorations, the preparation for this, as well as the events of war so far, will be performed by the World War I Memorial Committee, involving historians. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Why didn't you vote? Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-08-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear György Szilágyi. You took on an officer of the Parliament, and you took on the extra responsibility to take care of the order of the House. I'm asking you not just here, there too... [[György Szilágyi: This is a parliamentary genre, Mr. President. President László Fat told me. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Volner!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question with the title of the two Eger kindergartens announced by the government. By answering this question, honourable Member, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent on the subject. The question will be answered by Minister András Tállai, State Secretary. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-89	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In 2006, Fidesz's individual Eger representative and the city administration promised two new kindergartens out of 800 million forints to the Eger population. [[András Tállai: 2016!]] In 2016, that's right. [[András Tállai: You said 2006.]] Then we understand each other well, wonderful! Because Eger kindergartens are already fully used, parents are constantly complaining that it is very difficult to find a place to stay in kindergarten, and it is very difficult to place their children in 2018 in the year of the families. At the time, the delivery of the kindergarten was promised July 2018. October 2018 there are no cuttings, no two kindergartens. In fact, when Prime Minister was on a campaign tour in Eger, he was selling dishwashers. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] You just forgot to list these two kindergartens between your promises. The thing that has been tragic since then is that not only the two kindergartens have not been built, but they have closed a kindergarten in Eger this year. Moreover, and this is my fundamental question because I do not understand exactly why you were appointed Prime Minister, but this is the life of the demolition that has begun, and the parents have just learned that from this closed kindergarten, their children must be transferred to other kindergartens now, now, in October, where there was already an overload. So my question is, how could it have been that they promised plus two kindergartens, and then they made minus one in two years? What kind of math is that? How did it get out? And how can you explain this to parents in Eger in the year of families who still find it very difficult to get a kindergarten seat? Will the new kindergarten be built in Eger, or will this promise of 2016 not be realized at all? How many kindergartens in a county seat do you think in particular need to be able to return to the labour market, as you strongly urge in the year of families? Thank you very much for your reply. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-08-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-10-08-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to tell you that what I'm going to tell you before I answer, I've agreed with László Habis, Mayor of Eger, because he's in charge of this. He's asking two questions. One is that they closed a kindergarten in Eger. I'd like to deny that, according to the Mayor's words, no kindergarten has been closed. A kindergarten with groups and kindergarten teachers will be transferred a few hundred meters away. This was agreed with all parents. The parents signed to agree to the transfer, and they fully accepted it. [[Péter Ungár's intervention.]] [[Péter Ungár's intervention.]] That's what the mayor says. From what I hear, you haven't been to Eger, so I'm not sure you've been able to find out about reality. (Peter Ungár's intervention. ) And the other one. The mayor is also responsible for the construction of the two kindergartens, since Eger has 4.4 billion HUF for the development of kindergartens and nurserys together with Heves County. And now Eger has 800 million forints. Indeed, a kindergarten will be built in Bratislava Street and Gardens Street. It is not true that a single cut has not taken place, since the construction of the kindergarten on Ker-tész street has already started, the public procurement procedure has been successful. The case of Pozsonyi Street kindergarten, after there is an increase in costs, is examined by a judicial expert. Following the investigation, development cabinet, economic cabinet and government decisions are required. [[13.40]] The construction of a kindergarten on Pozsonyi Street will soon begin, when conditional public procurement becomes a real final public procurement when there is full funding. Finally, let me give you some advice: before you talk about a city and its problems, go down to Eger, navigate, and then try to scare the Eger residents. [[Péter Ungár's intervention. The president's ringing the bell.]] To that question, I have to say, you've made a mistake. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister, who did you, Mr Prime Minister, and what gift did you receive to make Hungary the poor house of Europe? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Sándor Bodó will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Let's say that Hungary is run by a professional horse's trophy [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who controls Jobbik now?]] A professional horse-dog who can make sure that while Hungarians don't get money when they work, he, your horse-dog, gets money even if he doesn't work, but, let's say, he goes to a football game with a luxury plane, which is financed by buddies who make a billion bucks out of cupping in exchange for state billions. Mr Secretary, I think this is dangerous, but you think it's perfectly natural, because this is how your Prime Minister has said in the last thirty years, and it is planned to continue in the future. In other words, in the future, not those businesses who work well will receive government orders, but those who are willing or able to distribute billions of dollars' worth of gifts to Hungary's Prime Minister. 'Cause let's face it, that's exactly how horse-kupec-economic policy works: I'll give you something, you'll give me something; if you think I'll give your business overpriced billion-dollar public procurements, and I'll even guarantee you cheap labor, because the more profits you have left, the more gifts you'll be able to give me. That is precisely why, because of the immeasurable corruption, the immeasurable distribution of looting, there is no substantial increase in wages in Hungary! That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State to tell me who and what gifts the Prime Minister has accepted to artificially keep wages low. What kind of gift did they accept to campaign against the Wages Union? What gifts were accepted to organise five thousand cheap Ukrainian migrant workers to Hungary with public money instead of a substantial Hungarian wage increase, in order to break down the Hungarian wage level? What gifts did they accept to take the cafeteria away from the workers? One thing is certain: in the last thirty years the Hungarians have become poorer, Mr. Secretary of State, and you are getting richer. In terms of corruption, Hungary has become the leader of Europe and, in terms of wages, Europe's host, so be kind and tell us how much they have undertaken to destroy this country. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-94	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that that particular sign does not appear in your written version of the question, and you are obliged to bind yourself to it in accordance with the house rules. Secondly, I warn you that this term is not worthy of this House. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Which one? Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: He admitted it himself!]] Therefore, you will receive a special warning. [[It's a rare applause.]] I'll ask the Secretary of State to answer.
u2018-10-08-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! Indeed, we have heard a shocking style of expression. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I'd like to get the question back to the field of fact. You say here that in Hungary the average-worker does not receive money even if he is working. Can you imagine this life situation? I think it's an incomprehensible thing. Then he also states that wages are not increasing in Hungary. Well, there are concrete factual data on this, which I have already provided a few minutes earlier, and these figures are also outstanding in a comparison between the EU and V4. Unfortunately, on this issue, there is nothing more than making the idea of a wage Union into such a difficult-to-understanding campaign: there is no professional idea, no basis for calculation, it is a communication, and with its permission, but even more so, on the basis of the mandate of the electorate, this should not be dealt with at all. Instead, effective economic policy needs to be addressed, for example, and this is a specific figure, the gross amount of the minimum wage is today 87.8 per cent higher than the 2010 level, while the guaranteed minimum wage has increased more than double by 101.7 per cent over the same period. I think it should not be a question of keeping wages in national jurisdiction and continuing to increase wages significantly in recent years is the correct continuation of our economic policy direction, and this is the key to our development and progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, who did you, Minister, and what kind of gift did you accept to destroy health care and drive the country towards paying health care? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is slowly becoming clear to everyone why the government intends to make healthcare twofold. The majority of Hungarian citizens pay the social security contributions fairly in order to receive care in hospitals and clinics, if they have any health problems, yet they end up in the private clinic if they do not want to wait weeks, months for an examination or years for certain surgeries. CHAPTER XXI This is unacceptable in the century, since the timely diagnosis of certain diseases can save lives. These are the reasons why a parallel health care system has developed, which the government does not seem to want to curb but rather facilitate. The condition of our hospitals is getting worse, there are more and more risks to patient care, see Ajka, employees of the state institution, says that mass terminations, lack of specialists are lacking in minimum conditions, in many cases surgeries need to be postponed, because there is no glove and thread required to perform it. Thus workers are forced to make decisions: either sterilize the disposable device so that they can perform a vital surgery or wait until they can get it, but then the patient is exposed to a decrease in the chances of recovery due to late intervention. Of course, ministers can afford private health from millions of salaries as well as private schools, so they are unable to feel the problems of an average Hungarian person, even though there are more of the average Hungarians, believe me, Minister. The average Hungarian is the one who gets robbed every day by the government, whose money you can spend your money on. The problem in Hungary today is that they serve themselves with the nation, instead of serving those who now allow them to sit here and smile at me. Why, apart from themselves, is it in the government's interest to make the health system twofold? I look forward to your respect and sincere response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-98	Thank you, Congressman. The answer to the Member's question will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can honestly say to you that at least you have not exported doctors abroad, honourable Member, and you are asking this question, but you have tried to cure people as paramedics, which is a recognition, but your party is politically not shy when it comes to selling yourself. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Say this as a member of a satellite party.]] Your party was sold to Lajos Simicska during the campaign just because [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Doesn't the skin come off your face?]] to drive around with an Audi A6, Gábor Vona, which, of course, was written in another name. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: How much support is KDNP? Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? Pull yourself together.]] Therefore, they were able to fully serve the interests of an oligarch. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: A separate party should be formed!]] and now they supported the candidate for mayor of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party with [[György Szilágyi: You voted with Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] I'm sure they didn't leave for the 15th. district mayor election, speaking of giving up principles and making a profit. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What Fidesz-KDNP intended in the field of health was precisely to separate private health from public health and to provide additional resources in public health, as the socialists directly bled out one or another part of health care in front of us in order to privatise it or even make it pay by introducing visits and hospital daily allowances. The 2019 budget submitted and adopted contains HUF 647 billion more on the health lines than the budget adopted for 2010; by HUF 647 billion, this is one and a half percent of GDP. [[13.50]] Exactly in order to ensure the highest level of health care available to all, we have renovated 77 hospitals, 54 clinics and 104 rescue stations. That's why we built 23 new clinics and 31 new rescue stations to provide the best health services for everyone. The additional resources also contributed to the waiting list reduction programme, so the waiting number of 70,000 has now fallen below 28 thousand, and we have also tried to provide more than 70 percent of the additional resources in basic care. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Time!]] precisely to strengthen public care, to strengthen public health. That's what we're gonna do later. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To work. We regret that none of these additional resources have been voted by Jobbik's faction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2018-10-08-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! That concludes the questions. It's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Vice-President Tamás Sneider and Vice-President Márton Gyöngyösi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Mr Group Leader, the Prime Minister has asked Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to reply to an urgent public task. I ask you whether you will accept Minister for Responding, or whether you will personally ask Prime Minister for an answer.
u2018-10-08-101	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd be honored, but I'd like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2018-10-08-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister has appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer personally. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dr. László György Lukács: Manicure.]]
u2018-10-08-103	I personally expect an answer from the Minister. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-104	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question:. You, Minister, from whom and what gift have you accepted to allow more than 20,000 migrants into the country? It's an address. Mr. Head of the Group, Minister has appointed Mr. Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for an urgent public service response. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Mr. Fraction Manager points out that he accepts Mr. Károly Kontra as a representative of State Secretary. Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi Group Leader will take the floor, please.
u2018-10-08-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Immigration and migration have been on the agenda of the Orbán government for three years. Around 2015, when the migration wave peaked, Jobbik gave the Orbán government all the help it could to protect Hungary's southern border quickly and effectively. In mobilization, border protection and the construction of the fence, Jobbik supported the proposals you put forward, and we also helped explain its anti-alignment position to Hungary in the European Union. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Balczó!]] Orbán rightly presented an action plan in Brussels in September 2015 and April 2016, which was about Europe's ability to defend its borders together, including strengthening Frontex. The Prime Minister himself said that if the Member State is not enough to meet its commitments, then ask Frontex for help, which will intervene to help protect the borders. Accordingly, in 2016, in the European Union, the Council of Ministers, the representative of your government, supported and voted in favour of the proposals to strengthen Frontex by the Fidesz MEPs in the European Parliament. Now that the migration wave is falling, and now that the EU Member States have finally realised that the pro-immigration policy that they represented earlier is wrong, you have suddenly turned the road to Damascus [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik is turning.]] and began to pursue a kind of pro-migration policy. Jobbik's proposals for border protection are constantly rejected to reinstate the border guard. More than 20,000 migrants have been admitted with a state of residence bond [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , more than 3,000 protected people have been admitted to Hungary and are campaigning against Frontex. What gift has been accepted and accepted from whom, Mr Secretary of State, in order to take a pro-migration position? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: That's it!]]
u2018-10-08-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Minister Károly Kontra will answer your immediate question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I would like to strongly reject the statement made in his last sentence or in the title of his immediate question. Sándor Pintér didn't accept any gifts from anyone. Sándor Pintér and all colleagues of the Ministry of Interior, the bodies under the control of the Ministry of Interior, work to protect Hungary, protect the security of Hungarian people, and protect the Schengen borders of the European Union. I believe that the work that the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian police and the Hungarian defence have done for the protection of Hungarian and EU borders over the past three years is worthy of recognition. More and more people acknowledge this productive service. I would also like to thank the professional staff, both the police and the Hungarians for protecting Hungary, for protecting Hungary's southern border. By the way, I'm sorry your party didn't vote for the amendment to the Fundamental Law. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Which one?]] Since the Hungarian defence is a triple protection, there is a lively defence, there is a fence, and there is a legal border lock. This would have been confirmed after the referendum in October 2016, by the amendment of the basic law, which, honourable Member, you did not support. I think that this speaks for itself and expresses the attitude that you have on this issue. As regards the restoration of the independent border guard, honourable Member, I would like to say that the police, border hunters, are effective in providing Hungarian border protection, so they have received several recognitions, recognition of this activity at international level, this protection is effective, and this form of protection is in line with the national interests of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. P-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-
u2018-10-08-109	Dear Secretary of State, I was hoping to get away with the bullshit you've already cut off once in response to an agenda, your wallet here this morning in connection with border guards and migration issues. But it seems that government communication is slowly skimming the level of the exposing magazine as far as conspiracy theories go. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] It is completely inconsistent what you are doing, Mr. Secretary of State. For once, please take a look at the map of how the fence you have set up and how Europe interacts with each other, as they stand in such a position as János Hunyadi, and think that you are protecting European civilisation and Western civilization. I think that you have an amazing responsibility when the European Union finally regains consciousness and when it finally puts powerful proposals on the table. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're lost.]] which may be imperfect, but they provide a negotiating basis, you have rejected the agreement between the European Union and Africa. You were the only people in Europe, and now you're starting to act like a hysterical child. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] when the reinforcement of Frontex is on the agenda. Shame on you! You are traitors to European civilisation, Mr. Secretary of State, and you are also traitors to Hungary. So please give me a meaningful answer for the next minute. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2018-10-08-110	I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra for a rejoinder.
u2018-10-08-111	Dear Chief of Staff, His emotional words are completely unfounded, as the facts show that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and the world. This is also thanks to the fact that Hungary has been protected from migration, and the southern border has been protected. I believe that this last three-year joint effort, which Hungary, the Government of Hungary, the police, the border guards, the Immigration and Asylum Office and the other Hungarian authorities acting on this issue, has done, is worthy of recognition and proves that Hungary is committed to the European Union and is committed to protecting EU values. [[14.00]] We are not only protecting Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, but also protecting the Schengen border. [[Intervention from Jobbik: How big is the Schengen border?]] Dear Chief of Staff, This is why Hungary, the Hungarian people, is making a huge effort, because it has taken more than one billion euros of taxpayers' money and we have spent more than one billion euro on this protection. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To create the conditions for this. This protection is still solid, and we can say today that Hungarian people are safe in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who is the killer? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-10-08-113	Thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2018-10-08-114	Thank you very much. The congresswoman indicated that she accepted Minister Gergely Gulyás as a reply. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to reject the claim made by Bencé Rétvári that we want to benefit politically from the fact that a patient is dead and his family is grieving. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes! That's what you're doing.]] The family itself came to us to protect their interests, Mr. Secretary. The second is that you have become rather delicate and squeamish in the last eight years, when, let us recall, János Lázár himself died in 2007 as mayor of Vádmezővásárhely in an ambulance in relation to all the inhabitants of Szent: this man is the first victim of health reform. Well, then I would ask you to stop being so delicate and squeamish if we're trying to protect the interests of the people who are looking for us. Dear Minister, The Constitutional Court of 23/1990. In his decision, Ab stated that human life and dignity are inseparable and the highest value that precedes all else. In the present case, the Ministry led by the Minister for Health should have taken account of its institutional protection obligation in relation to human life, since it embodies the state at its highest level in the field of health care, it must ultimately ensure that human life is saved in health care, or at least that its actions do not trigger a chain of effects that could lead to the death of a human being. Mr. Secretary, what has happened in the last few weeks, I think you could at least show me how much trouble there is in health, which you have not been dealing with in almost nine years. Today's news is that the head of the E.R. in Pécs is standing up and refusing to do his job any longer. Minister, how much longer is this gonna go on? How many more people have to die to make something happen? This way, please, answer me. Thank you.
u2018-10-08-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-08-117	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Unfortunately, although the start of the issue was a general concern of the health system, I would like to repeat what I believe the Secretary of State Rétvári said that I think that the intention of making political profit from the death of a patient during medical treatment is reprehensible. The statement made by Minister Lazarus in this regard cannot be summoned here or summoned here, but it is not the same, because then you wanted to shut down the hospital in Hódmezővásárhely, and this was the result of what you mentioned. This is not the case here, you are trying to forge a political case, which, of course, needs to be investigated, which is why the Ministry has ordered an investigation. Based on the results of this study, the expert study concluded that the situation with regard to the termination in question in the cardiology institute had no impact on the death of the patient in any way. In fact, I would like to point out that the expert examination, even if it may be relevant in other procedures later, said that the patient should have been operated on within the shortest period of time after detection, and that did not happen, and that, if it is someone's responsibility, it may be the hospital's legal responsibility, but the doctor's liability for making a medical error is precisely that of the person who [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, they went on thin ice...]] You've been protecting me here for weeks now. So, in this sense, this is also a completely wrong conclusion. I would like to point out that since 2010, we have spent 650 billion HUF more on health care, which has led to a halving of doctors' emigration and a significant, tangible increase in wages: in 2016 and 2017, the basic salary of doctors increased by 56.8 percent and the basic salary of the professionals by 65.5 percent between 16 and 19 respectively. It can be said that this is little, but much more than what happened during socialist governance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-118	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute reply will be given to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-119	You know, Minister, blaming the doctor without the investigation being completed is a bit of a lie. A man is dead. At the end of the week, former Fidesz MP Zsolt Tiffán defended the doctor, and then, see wonder, this post disappeared from his Facebook page, and his profile was even removed. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] If a fidesz is trying to protect you essentially, then it looks like they're taking action. Let me quote you, at the end of the week, you said about the Romanian referendum that every child has the right to a mother and a father, and that it cannot be replaced in any other form. Minister, I will make it personal: what if this had happened to your father or your brother or your child? Tell me what would have happened then. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Or, Mr. Secretary, if your father is lying in that hospital or having a heart condition, is that what's happening? Well, I swear I won't; that's not what's happening in this country! They could have taken immediate action, and today Miklós Kásler would not be a minister! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But that's not what happened! An ordinary man is dead, and you don't fucking care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Congresswoman! Dr. Pál Völner: Style!]] They're washing politicians! I'm sorry, this is really intolerable.
u2018-10-08-120	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-08-121	I can only repeat that the fact that, in a tragic case, the congresswoman is personally causing such a freak out here in Parliament, I do not think that it is such a profit to the Socialist Party that it is worth it. What would have happened if this had happened to anyone? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] What would have happened if it had happened to anyone's family here in Parliament? We would have expected the minister to order an investigation with immediate effect. It happened. This test has a result. I can't judge whether the result is real or not. Obviously, after a specific treatment, there may still be different procedures, but I recommend that relatives do not represent them in these procedures under any circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-122	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Minister Bence Rétvári State Secretary [[Dr. Imre László nods.]] He's assigned it. I see the congressman accepts the response, I think that's what the warning was about...
u2018-10-08-123	Thank you very much. I insist on the Minister's identity.
u2018-10-08-124	So the congressman doesn't accept the Minister. Thank you very much, we misunderstood each other in communication. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Mr Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, who is not in the Chamber, would be following you. The condition of this question is that someone should be present in the Chamber. There's another one. Member Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: why are the data of the HCSO not up-to-date? It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, We all know that information is power. Of course, we also know that abuse of this is a completely different category. [[14.10]] There is a problem and a problem for us that is not a problem, or even an obligation to rely here on the data that is real and cannot be classified as fake news or even fictional, questionable data. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that KSH is constantly allowing access to data for 2016, which, of course, does not allow us to say the problems and problems that affect our own territory based on numbers at the end of October 2018. Based on information, you will now spend HUF 6 billion to inform citizens about the Sargentini report. That's your job. However, I would like it to be possible for Members of Parliament to study, use and express our opinion at the end of 2018 at KSH. I look forward to your reply with all due respect. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-127	Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. When I saw that the question concerned the case of KSH, I thought that it might be about the data points that KSH had made, for example, with a one-tenth percentage correction for economic growth. I would just like to point out that, in this respect, we can join the ranks of complainants, as, at the moment of the parliamentary elections, there was a lower growth rate for voters than is now available to the public, with real data, in relation to the full correction, and it is also true. So what I'm trying to say is that there's no difference of interest between us. The procedures conducted by the HCSO are carried out according to a serious professional protocol. Moreover, this is approved by Eurostat and I do not believe that this reporting would be much faster in other EU countries. But of course, if you look at each area, consumer prices will be published 8-11 days after the reference period, i.e. for example, September data will be published on Wednesday, 10 October, commercial accommodation data on days 35-40, the first flash estimate of GDP on days 45 following the reference period, and the first estimate of industry data on days 36-40 following the reference period. However, since there is a community of interests in speeding up this procedure where it can be speeded up, I would like to start by saying that the KSH is not hiding anything from you or from the opposition representatives, when we can get to know the data, you can also know it. If you have any suggestions on how to speed up these procedures in accordance with the Eurostat procedure, please contact me or even the President of the HCSO and we are available. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-128	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Imre László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-08-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I'm a doctor. I'm basically interested in the data that appears in the context of patient care, directly related to these things. Of course, there is a budget among these, precisely how much is spent on health care and the operation of health care. I have to tell you, and I'm allowed to say this, that when we learned it in college, it's funny to note that lies have three degrees: small lies, big lies and statistics. It is very bad, and I do not think that the government needs this to constantly compare data at current prices, as if inflation had not affected these data in terms of purchasing value. I'm sorry, the data of 2017 is not available. I can't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2018-10-08-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister, but I would like to inform the Member that the answer does not have to be accepted in the immediate questions. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2018-10-08-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The comment on the statistics you mentioned is obviously a continuation of the Churchilli quote that I believe only in the statistics that I have forged. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: This is not how it was said!]] only in decades of communism, this was probably quoted without a source. But it doesn't change the fact that I can only stress that there is an identity of interest between the government and your claim to obtain statistical information as soon as possible. Since there is no distinction today in the fact that when a statistical data is produced, opposition representatives, pro-government representatives and even the public themselves will be able to get to know it at the same time, so if these data can be brought forward, then we will be able to get to know it first, so that this will probably speed up government decision-making even more. However, I fear that this has technical limitations, but since no one can accuse the government of not having a widely known professional authority as President of the Statistical Office, I therefore propose and if I can help it, I would be happy to help you to contact President Vukovich directly, in case the negotiations become fruitful and we can all benefit from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-132	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask an immediate question to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, Minister without a wallet:. The situation of Hungarians in Vojvodina in connection with EU accession? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to inform you that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has appointed Mr. Árpád Potápi Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman says you'll accept it. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government's unconventional foreign policy focused on a case is indicated by the fact that when Péter Szijjártó spoke about Serbia's accession to the EU on the last time, he highlighted only the migration route, but we all know that Hungary's primary priority in this case would not be migration, but the representation of the Hungarians in Vojvodina and Southern Hungary. We remember in this House that in 2005, despite their earlier promises, Fidesz allowed Romania's accession to the EU, together with the Balliberal side, without any demands or any conditions being laid down, and we know precisely that the result was that this historic opportunity had been missed and that to date there has been no Szekler autonomy. The fact is that the government wants to repeat the same historical error and historical sin, as it has not been able to lay down specific conditions both in writing and orally for many of my questions, which would enable me to decide whether or not to allow Serbia to join the EU. I would like to point out that the national representation looks like Slovenia has pre-arranged Croatia before the European Union for more than seven years because of a small coastline. You have that opportunity, too. It's time to be tough! But the thing is, I could give you some ideas about what to demand of the Serbian Government: apart from real autonomy, to investigate the atrocities post- 44; to reinstate the powers of national councils; and that the betrayal on Vojvodina Day, which, in turn, has designated a national holiday which is identical to a break-up, will be lifted. The thing is, János Martonyi said to a similar question earlier that you cannot catch a sparrow with a drum. You may not be able to catch a sparrow with a drum, but I see that you don't want to touch this sparrow, you don't care that this is your chance. Now is the time to veto, to be brave, not when the UN accepts a non-important document about something that has no concrete consequences for the Hungarian people! Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Potápi, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for asking. All I would add to the coastal debate is that I had the pleasure once to participate in President Fat's delegation when he was negotiating with the Serbian Speaker, and the Serbian Speaker said that since we had no sea, we have been swimming better. We haven't had a beach for a long time, so we can't have this kind of debate. [[14.20]] However, back to the original question, I think that Hungary and the Hungarians in Vojvodina have done a lot in the last decade to make a big move forward through historic reconciliation. I believe that historical reconciliation does not exist without compromises. Both Hungary and Serbia have made these compromises. Obviously, we also needed the opinion of the Hungarians in Vojvodina. In Serbia there are 17 national councils, one of the 17 national councils is the Hungarian National Council. The leading force of this, the Hungarian Federation of Vojvodina, won the national Council elections by 85 percent in 2014. The next National Council election will take place on 4 November. I think that President István Pásztor also has a huge credit for the fact that the two governments, the two countries, are mediating as provincial president and the head of the VMSZ. I wouldn't even be able to list it in two minutes, but I think it would be a little short of an hour to present the results of the last four or eight years to you, or to introduce you to the Member. We could list all educational, cultural and ethnic achievements here. I think the allegations you're making are not true. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, what you've been saying is, let's be small. Its external relations. Here is the opportunity to be tough at last, representing the Hungarian national interest, but it does not seem to be possible to solve it. What you have said was all very interesting production reports from a news report of 74, but the fact is that Hungarian textbooks are not going out in the South for Hungarian students at present! So what you said was very interesting. It means one thing that he said, if I understand it correctly, because it was often difficult to follow, that the government does not wish to take a veto in order to represent the Hungarian minority in relation to Serbia's accession to the EU, if I understand correctly. Here again was your historic opportunity after 2005, you missed it again; all right, that will depend on your conscience. The thing is, after this, this government is doing foreign policy for the benefit of the nation, and this is the government of national representation, it cannot pronounce it again. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-139	Thank you very much. That we should dare to be small! The statement would be true of Fidesz and the current coalition of government, and I think the voters voted on it and, unlike you, they have a very different opinion. If we look at the Hungarian votes across the border, we see that 96.4 percent of them voted for the current government coalition. I believe that, contrary to your vehement comment, this was a significant expression of opinion. I don't think we should veto right now. Hungary, the Hungarian government, has the Hungarian national interests in mind, and when this becomes a question, we will make the right decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will health be destroyed?" It's an address. Madam Congresswoman, Head of Action Woman! Dear House, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the Minister as a reply.
u2018-10-08-141	I'll wait for the Prime Minister, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2018-10-08-142	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. F Mr. Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How long can convicted criminals continue to lead the city of Szeged? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-08-143	Mr. President. Dear Minister, Over the past few years, we have become accustomed to the failure of skeletons related to the activities of the socialists. All we need to think about is metro four-way Panama, the abuse of the EMIR IT system or the Sukoro telekguty. But we must not forget the fact that Csaba Czeglédy, DK-MSZP's lawyer, is a multibillion-dollar disadvantage. Balliberal scandals continue. In the first instance, Szegedi Közlekedési Kft. His former head was sentenced to ten months, to eight months, to László Botka's deputy mayor, to six months, and to ten months imprisonment for his chief of staff. The sentence of the convicts has been suspended for one year by the court. The district court found that between 2008 and 2012, the defendants granted 307 free parking tickets without having a general meeting authorisation or other legal basis. Foam on the cake that people who had nothing to do with the municipality got free parking tickets. In view of the story, the notary, the deputy mayor, the chief of staff must leave Szeged public life immediately and permanently. In our opinion, László Botka must, with immediate effect, acquit the prisoner's deputy mayor, key notary and chief of staff. The question arises, if László Botka was not aware of the illegal acts of his immediate confidants, then he is fit to lead a city with county rights. In view of the above, I would like to ask, Minister, how much longer can convicted criminals lead the city of Szeged. [[György Szilágyi: Long live accounting! That's the greatest result ever!]]
u2018-10-08-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-08-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The question is legitimate, and what is more, difficult, because in recent years we have found that if you are fidesz in any way or in any way related to Fidesz, but you are not connected to a politician or businessman, you have even been indicted, let alone a first-rate judgment, then the opposition has consistently demanded that from the far-right to the far-left, the person's withdrawal, resignation, and even the immediate execution of judgment. Compared to this, it should be noted that we are faced with a judgment of first instance, which is not final, but, indeed, at the time of the judgment, it was said that the municipality of Szeged decided annually, year after year, who would be granted free parking. As of 2008, this list was drawn up by Mayor László Botka's Chief of Staff and was subsequently approved without discussion at management meetings; a report was also prepared. Then the lists were signed by the head notary and the deputy mayor. Szegedi Közlekedési Kft. In addition, its former managers instructed the manager of the parking business to transfer these leases. According to the prosecutor's office, which, in accordance with the charges brought by the Court of First Instance, was determined, 307 free parking tickets were issued between 2008 and 2012 for which they decided to award at management meetings. In this context, in these decisions, free annual parking tickets were also granted to people who, according to the court, had nothing to do with the city; moreover, in the view of the court, it would have been necessary to authorise the general meeting and not to do so. As a result, I also believe that the political conclusions resulting from the judgment at first instance should be deducted from the management of the city. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-146	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-08-147	Mr. President. Dear Minister, As has been said, this parking scandal has reached the top circles of the Szeged city administration. Szeged is the third most populous city in the country, and he deserves to be led by people who are not under judicial judgment, people who do not seriously harm members of their community. Hopefully in the near future, the Szeged city leadership will be cleansed and people will finally be at the head of the county seat who will earn the confidence of the Szeged people. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2018-10-08-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister, you have one minute to rejoin me. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-08-149	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, From all this, we can only conclude that we should trust the wisdom of the electorate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-150	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP... [[For signal:]] My apologies, Tamás Pintér is in the background for the exchange, and I don't want to do this scandalum. So Tamás Pintér will be next, and I apologize to the congresswoman, and you will follow Tamás Pintér. Congressman Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:, You, Chief Prosecutor, from whom and what gift have you accepted in order not to engage in investigations in cases of clear suspicion of corruption? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Pintér has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, We do not need a legal degree to clearly state that Viktor Orbán is the most corrupt leader among European leaders. Between 2002 and 2010, we watched cold when left-wing governments stole the country through nocical boxes, but I think what's going on is already the top of everything. I mean, you guys don't give a shit anymore. In recent weeks, Hungary's Prime Minister has found out that he travels around the world on a 17 billion-dollar luxury aircraft, the cost of which is paid by István Garancsi; István Garancsi, who receives several ten-billion-dollar government orders through his companies, is therefore heavily dependent on the state's proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, You don't need a law degree to see what kind of crimes are or what they're suspected of. It is clear that Viktor Orbán has violated the Act on Parliament, since he could not have accepted such a high-value service. At the same time, there is a suspicion of bribery and the adoption of bribery, which is much more serious than the previous ones. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr Attorney General, to answer briefly, simply, but most importantly, my following questions. Do you think it's legal for a businessman who wins public procurement to fly the country's prime minister back and forth? What Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, did is called the acceptance of a bribe. The Btk. You're punishing him with imprisonment. How do they expect the Hungarian people to abide by the law if even the Prime Minister of the country is laughing at the person who is calling him to account? Can I expect the D.A.'s office to take your job seriously and finally conduct a fair investigation for my report? Thank you very much in advance for your sincere reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-152	Congressman! You have applied a rating in the way you just declared the Prime Minister, a very important thing that has not been confirmed by any forum. So I'm warning you. It's different to say hypothetically in a way, as a definite statement. I don't mention that category. With all due respect, Mr. Attorney General. You have the floor, please.
u2018-10-08-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Indeed, it does not take a law degree to make such statements. We have seen an example of this in history, where even judgment didn't require a law degree. This was the darkest period in Hungarian history, and I hope you do not wish it back, although it seemed to ring out of your words. As far as the prosecutor's office is concerned, the prosecutor's office operates according to laws, laws, the Fundamental Law, Hungary is a state of law, otherwise it could not be. To ensure that the legal operation is ensured, and the prosecution serves material justice, institutional safeguards, not different qualities or actions of persons. If you do know of a case where someone acted against the law and the facts, whether in the prosecutor's office or in any other authority, you really have to file a complaint, you have to make it public, and in that case, you will obviously have the consequences. If you do not have such facts, you have the legal opportunity to ask such questions, but you do not have a moral and factual basis. As far as the specific case you are asking is concerned, such a complaint has been brought to the prosecutor's office, which is under consideration, and the reasons for this will answer your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Pintér. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-155	Thank you very much for your answer, but it is quite simply shocking, as you know very well that we have made so many complaints that you have not done the investigations that would have been necessary to have Hungary's most corrupt criminals accounted for, those criminals in those benches. But, you know, it's not even about what they're doing, it's about the fact that the Prime Minister of a normal country doesn't do that. Or if he does, he'll resign because he's no longer worthy of his post. Orbán, on the other hand, acknowledged this crime in front of the country-world, as he said that I went in the same way 30 years ago, and I will continue to do so. And see, he did all this last week. Since 2010, you and your office have not done the investigations that were necessary regarding Viktor Orbán. This is how they cover for Europe's most corrupt leader. I, on the other hand, filed a complaint last week, and now they can't hide how important this is, and you have to investigate it. Do your job, I'd like to ask you to do your job. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-156	Congressman! You put another shovel on your previous statement, accused part of the parliamentary horseshoe. I think this is unworthy of the House. So I'm giving you a special warning. Mr. Attorney General will take the floor.
u2018-10-08-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! The problem is probably there, what you said. You say you don't need a law degree, you don't need that kind of knowledge to judge whether someone has committed a crime or not. I believe, and fortunately, that we must also follow the Hungarian laws; we need legal knowledge, we need a legal degree, and we need legal procedures. So if someone, anyone, is committing a crime, then they will answer for it, and if this has not happened, they obviously have neither legal nor moral responsibility. [[György Szilágyi: OLAF, Elios, Tiborcz.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-158	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. What's next in order to protect the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-08-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We see that Hungary's relations with Ukraine are nuanced by the issue of the educational rights of the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, and we can also see that the Ukrainian government seeks to undermine the acquired rights of the Hungarians of Transcarpathia by various legislative means and to intimidate them tenently. In the context of the Ukrainian Education Act, the recommendations of the Venice Commission have not been implemented either by the Ukrainian Government, since there has not been a meaningful dialogue and there has not been any progress in the extension of the Ukrainian Education Act to 2023. There are two events in the past week that we should definitely mention. One is that the submission of the so-called language law at first reading was included in the Ukrainian Parliament, and thus clearly shows the intention of the Ukrainian legislator, which aims to ensure the exclusive rule of the Ukrainian language throughout the political, economic, social and cultural life, thereby effectively reducing the right of national minorities to use the language, including the right to use the Hungarian language. The other recent event was that a secret service operation was carried out at the Consulate in Beregszas and the Consul in Beregszas was expelled. Of course, a proportionate response was made by the Hungarian government. We see that they are trying to put Hungary under pressure to address this issue with Ukraine, the protection of the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, as part of a bilateral relationship, and stop blocking and blocking Ukraine's NATO accession intentions. There were also two attacks on KMKSZ, the second was the bombing of the headquarters in Hungvár. [[14.40]] It can be seen that Kiev is not interested in resolving conflicts, but in deepening them. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian Government wants. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] take further action to protect the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-08-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He spoke of a problem that is perhaps the most burning and urgent task for Hungarian diplomacy at the moment, because indeed the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, we can safely say, are in peril, because the Ukrainian state launched a quite shockingly open helmet attack on him two years ago, which was just a year ago culminated by the adoption of the educational law. At least at that time we thought they wouldn't go any further, but we were disappointed, because he listed in part the measures, the events that have taken place since then, and which show that Kiev was determined to act against the Transcarpathian Hungarians by any means possible, and in this game he also uses Hungary as a scapegoat. The interpretation is that Hungary cherishes separatist aspirations and supports the Hungarians of Transcarpathia in their separatist efforts. Despite the fact that these accusations have been made and, accordingly, various investigations have been initiated in relation to, for example, the development programme of the Hungarian Government for Transcarpathian enterprises, so far no meaningful concrete accusations have been made, since they are all unfounded claims. As I mentioned, in the absence of the accusations, it was practically revealed that they had no basis. I would like to add a few additions to those listed by the Congresswoman. On the one hand, the Hungarian Foreign Minister was added to a death list, a list that is operated by Ukrainian secret services on the Internet and on which persons were previously killed. I would like to stress that the language law has been adopted at first reading by Ukrainian legislation and that citizenship law is imminent, which may be [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] would be a greater blow to the Hungarians of Transcarpathia than ever before. The Hungarian government has fought this phenomenon with every means possible. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We all know that it is a fundamental condition for the preservation of identity that educational rights should be guaranteed in Transcarpathia, and as President Brenzovics, President of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia, said, "We can only count on Hungary." Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-164	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-10-08-165	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't think we need to be afraid of the situation we're in. In the last hundred years, Hungary has often found itself alone in representing its national aspirations which should have enjoyed the support of the international community by virtue of the power of law. This is the case, as international conventions, legal standards and political standards that Ukraine is repeatedly violating in both legal and moral terms could be classified for a long time. When they receive an international call, for example, by NATO or, for example, by the European Union, to comply with the laws granting minority rights, they would not only follow and act accordingly, but also go further on the path limiting minority rights. As I have said, more and more legislative proposals are coming forward that would act against minority rights with unprecedented tightening up since 1920. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to emphasise once again that Hungary will go to the wall in order to prevent these steps from happening. And if they happen, they will be postponed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Order, discipline, purity! It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. [[Lajos Korózs nodds.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Accordingly, the congressman shall have the floor, and you shall have it.
u2018-10-08-167	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It must be said here and now that there is a crisis in health, and this crisis has been deepened by government measures over the past week. It is well known to you that the Secretary of State resigned last week, but at the same time, almost at the same time, a Deputy Secretary of State was appointed, but there is nothing more typical of government chaos than the fact that the former Deputy Secretary of State was forgotten to be released. They've appointed a Deputy Secretary of State not to absolve his predecessor. In addition, he resigned as medical director of the Honvéd Hospital. It is also known to my fellow Members that there has been a dual management here until now, but the centre of gravity has shifted to military leadership. In addition, he resigned from the emergency department of the University Clinic in Pécs at the end of the week. He said it took him so long, he couldn't take it anymore, he wouldn't take what was going on there. And please, I must also mention: Minister, no one here wants to use political capital from this man's death, but Minister, I say it very quietly, or I ask very quietly: this family must look someone in the eye. This wife must be told that her husband was not saved because the doctor was relieved of his job before the time limit for surgery. Minister, the doctor didn't resign. The doctor's been removed from his position. This child will have to look someone in the eye and say that a crowd of misguided government measures led you to your father's death. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2018-10-08-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-08-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat that I can imagine little less political accusations than that you are making the Minister of Health responsible for a medical treatment either because of a mistake he has committed or has not committed. The Minister of Health had nothing to do with the removal of that chief of medicine. In addition, the Minister immediately ordered an investigation, and the findings of this investigation do not support your claim in any form. Therefore, if the Hungarian Socialist Party were not interested in political gain, it would read this inquiry, at the very least try to disprove it, but for the time being, we have a very clear test result at our disposal. As far as health is concerned, of course, health has always been possible, and it will always be possible to say that there is more to be done and in a better state. But this does not change the fact that the implementation of the program for Healthy Budapest is about to begin in the capital, and in the countryside we spent more than HUF 400 billion on hospital development. It is also a fact that I have mentioned that medical wages have never increased as much since the change of regime as in the previous cycle, and this is also true of the workers' wages. It is also true that the GP's funding fee increased on average by around 74 percent compared to 2010. The monthly income of the general medical practices in 2010 was HUF 867 thousand, and now HUF 1.6 million. Or if we look at what the government has done for health care, it will spend a total of HUF 650 billion more on health care. So if the health system is still not well enough, it shows what the bankruptcy you left behind after the government is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-08-170	Thank you very much, Minister. I am speaking to Congressman Lajos Korózs for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-08-171	Mr. Secretary, you probably forgot that you've been ruling for eight and a half years. Look, Minister, Secretary Anikó Nagy has resigned from his position as Secretary of State because of what I just told you here. That's why! I read it here. [[You're reading from your mobile phone:]] The patients' calls are being received by my ex-secretary. I understand you're listening to them, asking for patience, and directing them to the new head of department. I don't know how he does it, he's a hero to me. The patient who died these days called several times to see what would happen to him when he could come. He didn't have anything to say either, but he told the patient that he had to contact the new head of the department. When she found out our patient was dead on Thursday morning, my colleague almost collapsed. [[14.50]] That's what I'm talking about. That's what I just said, very modestly, very quietly. Someone has to stand in front of society today and say that what you've done here is bankruptcy. That's bankruptcy! There will be dozens of people killed by health care, Minister.
u2018-10-08-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, If you repeat the original charge, then I can only repeat that the Minister of Health has no responsibility in any way in connection with a medical discharge in a hospital. In particular, it is not a burden on him or anyone else if, by the way, the investigation that doctors have conducted might give their opinion if they do not believe representatives or health managers of the government, the results of the medical examination make it clear that there is no connection to the tragedy that has occurred or to the dismissal of the department head. That's what's in the test report. You are arguing with this, you are not accepting this, and you are trying to make it the responsibility of the minister who obviously has nothing to do with this. What this government has done for health care and what can be expressed in numbers is its results, and I am willing to acknowledge that the conditions in many hospitals, especially in the capital, are not satisfactory today, and that is why it is necessary to implement the plan in this cycle. But this does not change the fact that there has never been a wage increase in the sector such as in the previous cycle, nor have we ever spent as much on medical instruments as in the previous cycle. This must be continued, and especially for those who have left this bankruptcy behind, I think they have no reason to hold us accountable. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-174	Thank you very much, Minister. It's 2:52 p.m., and we're done with the immediate questioning hour. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. [[Noise.]] After the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró spoke with the title "Gender education versus raising children." I'll give the floor to the congresswoman, please. And I would ask my fellow Members to allow you to speak without delay after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. That's where the time starts.
u2018-10-08-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the most emotional debates over the past period has been the elimination of gender and the issue of ideal opposition, and I would therefore like us to be able to make clear on this issue as well. It is very important to recall that the launch of the gender course was approved by the Orbán government in 2015, which is three years ago. Therefore, if something can be taken to account for the current government's policy on this matter, it is in any case that in 2015 it authorised the launch of this course with a government decision on the basis of the same facts, and now, while nothing has changed compared to that, for example, they had to consider the market demand to become a gender specialist in Hungary, and now they are eliminating it on the same basis. Therefore, what was considered to be to be launched in 2015 would be eliminated in 2018 on the basis of the same situation. However, I think that it is not only the question of this profession, and in particular of this profession, that contributes primarily to social opportunities and to the individual's potential to function in society, but rather to other factors that determine it. According to Eurostat's survey, in 2017 our country had to experience the shame that poverty is the most difficult to break out of all EU countries, so the family background in Hungary is the best way to determine the individual's life opportunities. So if we want to deal with gender as a question of individual opportunities, then at least to the same extent should we consider who has a family background. But here's another factor: who lives in what settlement. For example, access to higher education is influenced by the fact that man is of rural or urban origin, since while only 10 percent of the villagers in Hungary can obtain a degree, for example, about 40 percent of the people in Budapest can. I must therefore point out, once again, that gender is not exclusive, nor is it a primary driver of, for example, who is able to obtain a higher education degree. In a situation where Hungary's biggest problem for decades is the demographic decline in which, unfortunately, we have lost or let not be born a lot of people who are missing from this country, this is the primary aspect of gender that we should focus on. It is also very important for politicians to acknowledge that when we are discussing such a sensitive issue, such an innermost private matter, and we are talking about it in public life, it is primarily social responsibility that we can draw attention to, rather than breaking a wand over individual fates. It is important for the government to include this in its policies and in its speeches that not only those who are large families can worry about the fate of our country. How a person's fate turns out is none of our business, it's not the politicians who have to judge them. At the same time in life, I am convinced that the greatest change of identity occurs in a person's life when a child is born, because when a child is born, a mother is born, and a father is born, of course, not in the biological sense that a child is born, yet an identity change, an extremely big change of mind and privacy is taking place in all of us. And to this change of mind that happens in a person's life, politics does not respond to this at all, it does not help us to create a society so that this change of attitude can be achieved as smoothly as possible in individuals. Therefore, it is not enough to focus on material things, in which there was real progress on the part of the government, and it would also be important to contribute to social change, but they have done more harm than they have done. This is also necessary in a society in which the majority of 40 - year - old men and 40 percent of 40 - year - old women are childless. We are in the last hour, demography is the biggest problem in our country, so we should focus more on that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]]
u2018-10-08-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ungár applied for a speech from the LMP Group with the title of Young People and Mental Health in Our Changing World. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-177	Thank you very much for the floor. The day of mental health is October 10th, and I would like to talk not only about the usual psychiatric problems and the shortage of specialists and care in the psychiatric field, but also about the fact that there are currently 600 thousand people under 18 years of age in our country who have some psychiatric or psychosocial problems. The fact is that if these diseases are not treated then they come up much more severely in adulthood. Moreover, if I were to be very cold and calculating, these people would fall out of the labour market in adulthood and cannot be an active, active part of Hungarian society, so it is in all our common interest that people with mental or psychosocial illness under the age of 18 receive adequate care. The fact is that there are diseases here that OEP does not provide a sufficient number of hours, does not actually provide anything that is appropriate. These are drug and other addictions, alcohol abuse, the challenge of electronic games and eating disorder, which is one of the most important things, but I could also say the problems arising from unsafe sex that could be solved if there were sexual education in schools, which the government constantly rejects. The thing is, and often Fidesz tells us how terrible it was when the Gyurcsány government closed the OPNI, it's definitely a terrible thing, but the thing is, they can't solve it anymore. The fact is that there are 45 child psychiatrists in Hungary, most of the counties, so there are zeros in more Hungarian counties than there are even one. This means that a family has to travel more than 50 to 60 to 70 km with one mentally ill child, in several cases over 100 km, in order to be able to obtain a diagnosis or to deliver the child to treatment. [[15.00]] Moreover, the lack of psychiatric nurses makes it very difficult to operate in psychiatric departments. What is the worst and one of the biggest failures of the government is that, despite every promise, psychiatric nurses did not receive the hazard or extra work that the trade union otherwise demanded, the allowance that led me to describe, for example, the case of a psychiatric nurse, where, for example, in the closed ward, the patient cannot go behind the psychiatric nurse, because, in any way, he can physically abuse this nurse, such a person earns little in Hungary today humiliatingly, and the government has not been willing to give them any allowance in recent years. I'm going to the János Hospital, which is a disgrace to Buda, and which the government has not been able to solve in the past period, for example, in the psychiatric ward, because there is such a shortage of professionals, so children who are in the psychiatric or open ward should be taken to the children's ward. There were very serious problems here, because when there is a 30 to 35-pound anorexic child and it is delivered to the children's ward where there are infections, this child can very easily catch an abdominal infection, which can often be life-threatening in this situation. But I go on, what may have been one of the most terrible examples of John's Hospital, in the psych ward, was that the chief physician carried the building material, which required the reconstruction of the children's psych ward. So, the program, which every secretary of state here says twice or three times for all health questions, is in vain, however, in the children's psychiatry all kinds of extra medications, toilet paper, drawing work, crayons must be delivered by both parents and psychiatrists at their own expense. I have to go further, for example, there are a lot of diagnostics that are important for access to education, which would place children in SNI status, which is currently in three places in Hungary outside of Budapest, so in Szeged, Miskolc and Debrecen. This means, for example, that from Győr or Szombathely, or from Békéscsaba for example, and I have said that cities with county rights need to travel for hours to get the diagnosis at all, and then find an educational institution that can accommodate an SNI child, even compared to that. The fact is that this 600 thousand children were not dealt with by the government in the year of the family, and the legitimate demand of psychiatric nurses to receive hazard compensation in a highly dangerous profession is also not appreciated by the government, and has done nothing to reduce, for example, the shortage of professionals in terms of child psychiatrists, which in fact made care in Hungary impossible in this case. Thank you very much. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2018-10-08-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Fónagy was born 150 years ago in the Fidesz Group with the title Vilmos Vázsonyi. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-08-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The anonymous little people who almost no one needed in the city, at most every ten New Years, the census commissioner: they begin to mention a name in hope of themselves, Vázsonyié. This is how Gyula Krúdy remembered the man who was not only a representative of the small citizenship of the capital and the founder of a progressive political party, but also the first Jewish minister of Hungary. Vilmos Vázsonyi was born 150 years ago, in 1868 under the name of Vilmos Weisfeld, at the dawn of a promising age, when Hungary started to make a leap through post-compromise infrastructure developments and the construction of the railway network. Hungary's political strength has increased as a result of the development of economic life, and by the turn of the century, it has become increasingly important on the scene of Austrian-Hungarian political life. At this time, in 1900, Vilmos Vázsonyi established a reform party on a non-public basis, which was the first to take on the conscious political representation of small and medium-sized citizens in Budapest. Founded in 1894, the Civil Democratic Circle became a nationwide organization at the turn of the century under the name of the Civic Democratic Party, whose program was marked by Vázsonyi in the threesome of equal suffrage, general culture and economic justice. As he wrote in his speeches and writings:...we want to work, we want to act, we want to educate, educate and discipline the people, because only a strong, happy, free people, self-respecting citizenship that knows their rights will create independent Hungary. His political motives were partly against the large estates and monopolistic capital, partly against the newly emerging labour movement. On several occasions, his party policy pointed to this duality when he declared himself the Hungarian girondist of the centurion: "The girond is the rule of legality, the girond is the rule of the union of freedom and order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. His excellent ability to speak has been manifested in his university years. In his contemporary recollection, he referred to him as the most brilliant and talented speaker of university youth. He was the festive speaker of all patriotic celebrations, and the audience was moved to listen. Even his opponents acknowledged that he played the role of spiritus rector everywhere. In addition to his personal action, he advocated the implementation of his political ideas and goals in the press. As a law student, you've already gained national recognition. Later, he began his official operation in the district's jurisdiction. In 1901 he was elected Member of Parliament, where he continued his work until 1914. He kept his credentials until the end of the world war. In addition to his public activity, he spoke out for the emancipation of the Jewish religion, and took a lion's share in the fight that ended in 1895 with the victory of the receptionist movement's aspirations. He reached the peak of his political career in 1917 when he first became the Esterházy Government, then the Minister of Justice of the Wekerle Government, and also the Minister of Voters' Rights. According to Count Albert Apponyi, Vázsonyi was, in addition to all his democracies, a man of legal order and continuity, who wanted to achieve his goals in the context of natural evolution, if perhaps by rushing it. His temperament sometimes broke out of him and took him away more than once. But out of all this light and shadow, it emerges, but it means great things to all of us, including today: an honest man and an honest politician. After a long-term illness, he died in 1926. He deserves to be kept in his name and memory. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-08-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, MEP László Hajdu applied to speak after the agenda from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-181	Mr President, Dear House, On 30 September Budapest capital XV. in his district, in Rákospalota, in Pestújhely, there was an interim mayor election in Újpalota. I was part of this election campaign, so I think that, on the one hand, we would like to thank the 22 308 voters who have exercised their voting rights, exercised their democratic rights, and, of course, I would like to congratulate the elected Angéla Németh. But I would also like to note that as a Member of Parliament, it is perhaps my duty to indicate how this interim election campaign took place. I've had interim elections before, and I didn't participate in them, so here I had a living practice of how the government party, the Fidesz candidate, campaigned, because there were only three candidates, and at the end, a candidate for the real phantom party Gyula Thürmer, the candidate for the Fidesz and the opposition, a candidate for a civil organization. [[15.10]] On this election campaign, you could experience what it's like to have a boomerang effect on someone who promises all kinds of things, honey and glamour, but they don't believe him anymore. In this case, it was clear that they did not believe in the government's promises, although they would have provided very tough opportunities in perspective for the XV. The population of the district, at least at the level of promise. It is true that this was based on the fact that the Prime Minister had already promised several billion in 2010 as Prime Minister in the municipal elections. district, specifically addressing what money we're going to get. These nine and a half years have passed without any of those promises being made, so because of the promises, everyone was very, very uncertain whether this would happen or not. I would like to mention some of these promises because they have been mentioned in Annex XV. in the district, in the context of the fact that if and if the candidate Fidesz is elected, he may receive a reward under Article XV. At the level of a district or at least a promise, of course, if not, the thing was hanging in the air, that perhaps these promises could not be received. The Minister of Finance was personally involved in these promises, who was with us on 22nd in the days before the election, and he said that if they vote for a predictable and credible candidate, on which it was quite clear who it was, it could be expected that Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota would start a serious development. But Balázs Fürjes also joined the new Secretary of State, who told us what a significant role the outside district was to play in the agglomeration. Minister Gergely Gulyás also joined the district and Deputy Prime Minister, who appointed the candidate as Minister for the Panel Programme in the days before the campaign, although the panel programme has not been under way for nine and a half years. I don't even think it's in the whole country. You can see that there are clearly promises here that do not cover reality. Of course, many others have agreed to this promise. This programme has already been mentioned here. State Secretary Bence Rétvári, who also came out, held a press conference without the local government that owns the health program, which has to pay the self-esteem, a press conference on what will happen and how it will happen, and we will receive about 480 million forints from it, as we heard Újpest on the immediate issue. In essence, I think all these promises also show that what we in Parliament decide on different matters does not matter, because one person can decide on different large amounts of money. The point is to choose the Fidesz candidate. I'm not talking about what they did to the posters, what anonymous letters they threw into the mailboxes. Rákospalota, Pestújhely, the people of Újpalota decided to elect Angéla Németh at the 15th century. Mayor of the District. Possibly, we'll probably know that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That we won't get a penny of these promises. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-08-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-183	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member Tamás Pintér, who usually sits next to me, also met as a Dunaújváros resident with the interesting publication in the advertisement magazine Szuperinfó, which appeared in connection with a multi-company with generous support from the government, and where a labour force is recruited in Hungary with Ukrainian language as a priority advantage, even after the interview. Obviously, the government does not make such a secret of thousands of people from Ukraine, not even because years ago there was a fidesz proposal in front of the House, a legislative amendment proposal that would have made it easier and easier for you to recruit people in bulk and bring them from abroad, obviously not necessarily for permanent resettlement purposes, but work here is rarely limited to a period of a few weeks. We must also say here that the so-called import of Ukrainian migrant workers into Hungarian plants is not only in this case and at this moment, but also at systemic level, which the Government of Hungary supports even more generously than the leaders of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai system, which I do not respect. Moreover, the company concerned, which was raised in connection with the advertisement in Dunaújváros, receives an amazing amount of state aid. Even before the 2010 period, he received more than 15 billion as state aid to create jobs, but after 2014, this process seems to be on the move, and the government has already provided HUF 18 billion of direct support and tax relief for development aid for various investments, as job creation aid and infrastructure investments; typically, it was non-refundable grants. The Government of Hungary is talking about a change of population, but it seems to be contributing to a different type, since through the construction of the settlement bond, through the hundreds of billion-dollar brokerage fees by their friends, it has basically implemented a more than 20,000 resettlement programme, and has taken in more people as protected than Brussels has demanded by quota. I would add that I reject all similar instruments, unfortunately not the Government of Hungary. According to data from the Immigration and Asylum Office, nearly 14 thousand residence applications were submitted for employment only in the first four months of this year. This is a triple of a similar period for 2016, i.e. January to April, and by the way, double of last year's data, so a very large growing trend can be detected and it is indicated that this is only the total number of requests submitted legally. In the meantime, the amount of foreign workers being employed under the law of our Eastern counties, whether in Hungarian agriculture or in the form of others, may be deployed in different forms, is still invaluable. At the same time, the other branch of the said population exchange can be seen in action, as in order for the masses to come in here, crowds must also leave. All this is done in the form of emigration; brutal numbers are encountered. Once again, I would like to stress that, while the total population of Hungary in the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-éra, which I do not respect, has fallen by 700 thousand people, since 2010, starting from a lower base, this decline has unfortunately become even more drastic, with a further 1 million people less. This is a sobering vision of our time, which, regardless of political partyism, should call for a national action programme here, one that everyone, regardless of current government colours, should observe, and where there should be a lot of government decisions on demographic issues, for example, a public-based home-building and rental-building programme should make it easier for those who want to stay at home. This would require a partnership from the government, even admit that such a problem exists, emigration exists. The answer should not be that, of course, there are many more migrations in the proportions of the surrounding countries, because it does not reassure us that if one patient dies immediately, the other will get away with mutilation, because we all know what the end of such stories is, but we want to build a better future and a normal, growing Hungary. This requires at least a substantive debate on the ones I have listed. I'm really sorry that we've been without a partner for eight years. I look at the pro-government representatives because it is not only our opportunity, but it is our duty to talk, discuss, argue and find solutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-08-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs from Jobbik's group applied for a speech after the agenda entitled 2.0, or re-filled servants. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-08-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If anyone does not know this shocking sociology by Gyula Illyés, the people of the Pustas, he might think that this is about freedom-loving, warrior-proud Hungarians. [[15.20]] It is about repressed Hungarians who held me in a row of servants, whose children are good if one in a thousand has been able to break out of this miserable fate. In developed countries education is the most powerful tool to reduce social inequalities, and in a country with such advanced and normal development, it can be not only a political product, not just a habony lie, but a reality, a reality that allows entry into the middle class to be a social reality. However, things have changed a little bit in Hungary, since let's think back to Lajos Bokros, who said that there are no universities in Burundi, but they are quite well. Then István Pálffy, KDNP, went on this path, who said that the number of graduates and graduates should be reduced in Hungary. Otherwise, it is obvious why they do not start with their own children, why they always recommend these options to citizens, Hungarians. And now Minister Palkovics also pointed out similar strings when he said that the so-called Corvinus model, so that when they reduce or eliminate state-funded seats at a university or extend paying courses, this should also be the general one in Hungarian higher education. That's why I'm telling you that you'd be on this road, on the road to Bokros, on the Pálffy road. Imrenek Madách in his work "The Tragedy of Man" called the XII. color is the famous and infamous phalanster scene, where Plato is shepherding, Luther acts as a heating agent, and Michelangelo is forced to carve chair legs into something like this, by the way, Fidesz educational politicians also imagine a significant part of Hungarian youth, otherwise those with brains and talent to learn, but they do not have the financial opportunities. You do this in a country that, since 2001, has fallen from 28th place on the World Economic Forum's list of competitiveness to about 60th place. Human capital, please, pro-government gentlemen and ladies, should not be developed in this way in Hungary! Indeed, much more resources should be provided for research, culture, education and made available to large masses. In order for this country to move up the global production chains of transnational companies and to be able to engage in global economic processes with high added value products, these steps would be needed, and not those that you are taking and are not good for anything else, but to strengthen the status of wreck society or the fief that you are starting to build in Hungary even more. Let's look at the specific numbers. The proportion of young graduates, i.e. between 25 and 34 graduates, is 30 percent in Hungary. The OECD average is 43 percent, but let's say Japan or Canada have a 60 percent ratio and South Korea has 70 percent. How's that? How is it that the total domestic higher education has less resources in a year than money, let's just say, the MNB's Matolcsy foundations have stolen it. Of course, there are 60 million forints statues, 17 million forints, hand-knotted carpets, and Hungarian higher education is dried up and steered into a crisis. In 2008 Viktor Orbán said that tuition excludes people like you from higher education, excludings and excludes them from universities. What's changed in the last ten years? I'll tell you this: the NER parasites have stolen themselves, and now there's money to teach their own children at such expensive, paying universities if they have to. You are also stealing from Hungarians by saying that the average salary of a graduate is twice as much as that of a graduate. And they also shorten the Hungarian people so that the man who has a degree lives 12 years longer than the man who, let's say, has only a basic degree. Why are you doing all this? Why are you going this way? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-10-08-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on Monday 15 October 2018. I thank the staff of the Office of Parliament and, of course, my fellow Members for their work on the record. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good night and a successful homecoming.
