u2018-08-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, everyone. Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be Mr. Winner Vinnai and Mr. György Szilágyi. Welcome, my dear guests, to the gallery seats, and to all those who are monitoring our meeting today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Representative Andrea Varga-Damm from Jobbik, on the responsibility of governance, has applied for a speech before the agenda. I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-08-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. We are seeing empty benches again, simply because opposition representatives have raised and raised a topic in the new Parliament for months now that the Fidesz-KDNP Group does not want to deal with. Interestingly, in June 2010, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán thought it was worth addressing these issues. I thought I'd bring in his own words about these problems. 8 June 2010: In continental Europe it is not customary to put families on the streets because of their loans, and we do not have any institutions that can provide for families on the streets. Therefore, according to the government's calculations, the situation is that people unable to repay their loans are put on the street by credit institutions, then they become unemployed, they sink into existence, their families fall apart, their children are to be cared for by the state, overall, they are more burdensome for the public and the state than if we intervene in a timely manner. That is what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said on 8 June 2010. Since then, not only has he done nothing on this issue, but he expressly opposes all opposition proposals that are born in this circle between the walls of this House. But if we are talking about the issue of the care fee, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who said in 2010: I know that we will find ourselves against the politicians who have the full authority of the great people who have been privileged so far, but I stand before them, because I also know that the early risers, the ticket changers, the metro walkers, the children's educators, the shop line-ups, the patient nurses, students, that is, the Hungarians who take responsibility for each other's work will be with us. So then he felt that everything that is a problem in a society was important to him. But here is the KDNP, which expresses on every occasion the Christian attitude that he exercises in government. Only if you look at point 43 of the KDNP principles, they write: KDNP is struggling to create a social and economic structure that excludes social injustice, that is to say, that certain groups or layers can gain benefits or goods by shortening others. Have we seen one of the KDNP representatives in this House who has stood up for these principles in the last eight years? Well, if they stood up, they'd be sitting across from us right now, at least half the factions, because I'm guessing not everyone's on vacation at the same time. In 2010 Fidesz-KDNP won the choice on foreign exchange lending by resolving it. Not only has he solved it, but we all know it, because we know that the data has been pushed into the depths of this loan, and every day dozens of people, dozens of families, are moved out of their homes against demands that are sure to be unjust and unfounded. And I call you here, because we always take responsibility for socialist governments because they have responsibility for foreign exchange lending, but please, who was the President of the Hungarian National Bank since 2001? Járai Sigmond, Fidesz candidate. To Sigismund Járai, the President of the Swiss Central Bank wrote a letter asking whether the debtors were even aware of the risk they were taking. It is July 2, 2004. What's gonna happen? What happens is what is described in the report of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary? It is described that the burden-enhancing effects of exchange rate fluctuations are not known by the debtors, and the likelihood of an increase in the amount of repayment is not low, says the Hungarian National Bank itself. Have any fellow Members over the past 20 years heard that the President of the National Bank of Hungary has not had the power to prohibit such a type of credit? Have we heard that there is a lack of regulation, that there is a lack of powers? We didn't hear you. What did President Zsigmond Járai do? He assisted all of this during his national bank chair. But on 31 January 2006, also during his chairing, the Banking Association was able to publish a terrible study that states that in the long term there is no risk for these types of credit. But there's the care fee. It is unworthy, humiliating, and it is not possible for the pro-government representatives to stay away from the extraordinary session on such a matter. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-08-17-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The government has informed me that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. [[Szabó Timea applause: Beautiful! Interventions from the opposition: Shame! Well done. That was a good answer. Applause for the opposition.]] The president of the Szabó Timea Group applied for a pre-meeting speech on the subject of current issues. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-08-17-3	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, Let's look around, this Fidesz-KDNP today in Hungary: completely empty seats; one representative or at least one pro-government responder could not be sent in when we should be talking about helping thousands of families before eviction or eliminating the daily sufferings of people who care for their loved ones at home. Fidesz and Christian Democrat chair lines are empty, because government representatives seem to be spending their luxury vacations and don't give a damn about anyone in this country who needs help. It seems that the much-spoken Christianity of the Fidesz-KDNP is on leave right now; it is on leave when all we hear from Viktor Orbán and his government is that we must preserve Christian values in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, What are the Christian values that this government so zealously represents and claims to want to preserve? You have a right to assume that when they talk about it, they also show these values in their actions. Let's just look at the news of the past few weeks, and we don't have to go back much further, because the last few days and weeks have good examples of what Viktor Orbán understands about Christian governance. Three days ago, a family of six was evicted from Budapest IX. in its district due to foreign currency debt. There was a five-month-old child in the family and a pregnant mother. A member of the family worked as a nurse, who, because of his work, could not attend the eviction. [[10.10]] Two days ago, in Ferencváros, he forced a disabled woman and her elderly partner about 50 years old to leave the police's home. They took out 3 million forints of loans, of which 1.5 million forints were repaid, and then they owed 13 million forints. After a loan of 3 million, they owed 13 million forints. But there's also the mother of a girl in a coma at the age of 12 who couldn't pay her credit because of home care and who, because of the government and the municipality's zero help, the bank and her daughter put on the street. Pregnant mother, infant, disabled woman, elderly man - they were all left and left on the streets by the government, the government that calls itself the Christian Democrat. Meanwhile, all we hear from Viktor Orbán is that he saved the money-lenders and dealt with the banks. But the truth is that Viktor Orbán saved foreign exchange creditors by now two million people suffering from fear of eviction instead of one million Hungarians, and they are threatened by the 900 thousand ongoing implementations that Minister László Trócsányi informed us about. While we see that in 2017 the banks closed the year with record profits in Hungary, it is highly distinguished from the countries of the region, the biggest profits were the Hungarian banks from all the Visegrád countries. What help is it, my pro-government representatives, who are on holiday, where the number of people in distress is doubled, but the profits of the banks that eviscerated them are increased by 40 percent to nearly 700 billion forints? These Christian values that the government wants to protect? After the 2010 Fidesz victory, Viktor Orbán said on stage that the most important thing for the Fidesz government in the coming years will be modesty and humility. This is so true that as long as every day, 24 hours a day, the spiritually tormented mother receives 58 thousand forints per month, two members of the government of Viktor Orbán, Andrea Bártfai-Mager, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office and János Süli's monthly salary for Paks expansion will now increase to 5 million forints. Forints 58 thousand a month for home nurses on one side and 5 million forints for worthless ministers and for example György Matolcsy on the other. Let us begin to understand, my fellow Members, what are the Christian values represented by the Orbán government? I can only hope that when the government now declares that they are already negotiating with the stakeholders about raising the home care fee, then, like the ministers, the remuneration for the service of the mothers will increase by five times, i.e. at least HUF 290 thousand a month. If the HUF 1 million can be increased to HUF 5 million, then the HUF 58,000 can be increased to HUF 290 thousand per month. And perhaps it will also be expected of government representatives to apologize and distance themselves from their propaganda magazine, the Pesti Boys, who have hired mothers who suffer and care for their loved ones every day because they have not bothered to come in today with at least one representative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and answer these people and tell them how they want to help. Shame on you, pro-government representatives, who are on holiday right now instead of helping the Hungarian people!
u2018-08-17-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, Madam Group leader. Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled 'Forsaken'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-08-17-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I am an optimistic man, and until the very last moment, I hoped that the pro-government representatives would appear today and that today we would have a quorum for an extraordinary meeting. And now, unfortunately, we all see that not only did Members not show up on the government's side, but even the velvet chairs are turning empty against us. Because if they were here, it would be a sign of elegance and respect, a sign of elegance and respect for families who care for their families at home today. It could be a sign of elegance and respect, and it could be a sign of commitment to the Fidesz-KDNP Association to find a solution to the problems of foreign exchange credentials, but unfortunately they are not here, and this is of the same signal and has the same content. It is clear that these social groups, those in need, are completely invisible to the government in 2018, the year of the families. If they were here, they could be confronted with the fact that there are many people in this country who often do invisible work for society as a whole, because we do not see them as our fellow countrymen whose work is visible to all of us. At the same time, you should also see that the work they do in home care is an irreplaceable, high-value job that no one, not us, or anyone who doesn't do, can't replace if they don't do it. If the government representatives were here, they could be confronted with the responsibility they have for the unsolving of everyday problems of foreign exchange credentials. What we see today is that today, in 2018, tens of thousands of families, tens of thousands of children, tens of thousands of elderly, retired grandparents are in a position to lose their homes at any moment, and we have no doubt that if they lose their homes, they will be on the street. Dear House, The opposition proposals that have just been tabled would have been an attempt to launch processes that could solve the problems of these social groups. That is why we invited representatives of the Tax Chamber, which is why we invited representatives of civil society organisations dealing with the matter, and [[With regard to those seated in the gallery:]] Thank you so much for coming. Thank you all for coming, for making yourselves visible, and so the government can't pretend to miss you. The proposals we are now proposing would be a start-up that would ensure a significant increase for home caregivers and that would stop evictions, which are unfair and in the vast majority of cases illegal. Allow me to have a personal thought at the end. I was also involved in eviction in my own constituency, and every single representative on the government side should have been there to feel the tragedy that a family is experiencing at this time! [[10.20]] I think that until these things happen, there are unrated tragedies in this country, and until these things happen, we must work to ensure that such cases as eviction, like the eviction of a family, do not happen. Thank you very much.
u2018-08-17-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Arató applied for a pre-meeting speech from the DK Group in the summer of 2018. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-08-17-7	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Members who are not present! We have asked for this opportunity to comment before the agenda today so that we can tell the whole country what situation Hungary is in today. We can tell them what they don't know from the pro-government press, what they don't know from the pompous pro-government statements, they don't know about the lying propaganda that's pouring on us every day. Dear House, Today, the opposition proposed to discuss two cases in Parliament, which are typical of Hungary in the summer of 2018. Because it is typical of how he mocks him, how he tricks him, how the government makes the situation impossible for people who undertake to care for a family member, undertake to give up their lives so that they can do something for those who can't do for themselves, to take responsibility for themselves. Today, these people are rewarded by this country, namely this government, with HUF 30,000, especially in severe cases with HUF 58 thousand. I say to my fellow Members, if they are not here, that this is what Lőrinc Mészáros earns in 12 seconds. This is the money this government is giving these people. We are determined and determined to do something in their behalf to support and help them. László Varju, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, proposed that the Committee submit a draft amending budget. This would not have been a large sum for the budget, but Fidesz rejected it. He has tabled amendments to several opposition parties, which have proposed an increase in this amount; Fidesz rejected it. We submitted a proposal to the Labour Code, along with other opposition representatives, which suggested that home care be considered a full employment relationship. Fidesz didn't support that either. Now, of course, they promise, but we know how much these pro-government promises are worth. You may want to score some points in the press, because it's embarrassing, but it's not like they understand these people's problems and want to help them. Just like they don't understand the problems of foreign exchange lenders. They refuse to help them, they don't care that 50,000 families, people have lost their homes, their homes because of loans. They don't care that there are 120,000 families that are still directly threatened by eviction today because their credit has already been transferred to debt managers. You don't care, you don't care about Fidesz, you don't care about him, you refuse to do anything. They won't even talk about it. There may be a debate in professional solutions. The Democratic Coalition has also put in place an eight-point package of proposals on how to resolve this really serious situation, but civil society organisations, including the Tax Chamber and other parties, have made great, important proposals. But you can't even talk about it. Today's power is so not interested in what is happening to people that it is not even willing to talk to civilians, the opposition or the professionals in these matters. It's a shame, it's a betrayal of voters, it's a betrayal of the country! And, fellow Members, no doubt, it is not just about them, it is not just about them that the government forgets. He forgets about pensioners receiving a pension of less than HUF 50,000, forgets about our disabled countrymen who have been kicked out of the disability pension system and have to spend their days on 30,000 or 20,000 forints. He forgets about families with many children whose family allowance has not been increased since 2018. And they still have the nerve to talk about the year of families, and they still have the nerve to talk about the need to guarantee privacy at home. They protect their private lives, but they do nothing for the privacy of Hungarian citizens. In fact, they are destroying those legal barriers, destroying the rule of law, which could provide some kind of protection in these cases. Ladies and gentlemen, This government doesn't care about the country, this government doesn't care about the real problems, Fidesz doesn't care about anything but increasing its own power, building its own power and filling their own pockets. It's a shame, and sooner or later, they'll answer for it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-08-17-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group, entitled before the 20th of August, applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2018-08-17-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who have come to this Parliament meeting today! Together, we could listen to the key speakers of the opposition during the speeches before the agenda and draw attention to very serious problems. We would have liked to have been able to discuss these problems here in the House. It is shocking, because we also expected that Members would not appear, but that the government would not be willing to give any meaningful answers to these problems; they simply did not come to face these problems in a cynical and outrageous way. However, if at least the representatives of the government had come, I would have drawn their attention before August 20 to the warnings of our King St. Stephen and to one of those important warnings, which is to keep in mind that all men are born in the same condition, and that nothing raises, only humility, nothing throws you down, only pride and hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, more than a thousand years after the founding of Christian Hungary, we can see that the Fidesz government stands with Christianity as the stone thrown into the fountain and the water, that they are constantly in contact with each other, but the stone never crosses the water. After all, we can see that the system of national cooperation is now building a Christian democracy and protecting Christian culture, but at the same time it is sticking stickers on the door of civil society organisations protecting rights. Based on these values, the homeless would be taken away by a police officer and evicted by policemen today, and in this spirit they would deprive the justice system of its independence. Ladies and gentlemen, The former Soros Scholarship Prime Minister said he wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road to create social security. Compared to this, we can see that income differences are constantly increasing in the country, and we can see that the wealthiest income gap between 1 million and the poorest one million is now more than ten times higher. What we have seen here in the course of the budget negotiations is that they spend less in proportion on welfare and social expenditure than in 2010. Since then, neither the family allowance nor the minimum old-age pension nor the care fee has been raised. Meanwhile, as we have heard, Mészáros, the world's richest gas mechanic, is working for an hour of HUF 11 million. Half of single - parent families, where about half a million children are raised, live in extreme poverty. From this we can see that Fidesz is only interested in the rich. The former Soros Scholarship Prime Minister had a chance to get from Alsút to Oxford. But if we look at it now, a child raised in a poor family has been deprived of the possibility of an outbreak. All parents strive to make their children better so that they can thrive better in the world, but at the same time they see that in this constantly changing, challenging world in today's education system, today's school, the child does not acquire this adaptive ability, so he tries to help children acquire these skills in a different way, and even at the cost of being indebted. [[10.30]] In the name of Christian values, this government is bringing thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of families into debt slavery. We have seen that last year banks have made 700 billion forints in profits, so much has been made on Hungarian families, while 117 thousand homes are threatened with execution, and about 2500 homes are placed under hammers every quarter. We find it unacceptable that Fidesz sided with the banks. And Fidesz has failed debtors not only by not deciding on this issue, but by not even coming or listening to this problem. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party, in cooperation with the Tax Chamber representing the parties, demands, in the form of a bill, that implementations should be suspended until the entry rate is forgone, since this is the only way, the proposals of the Tax Chamber are the only series of proposals that free the Hungarian families from debt slavery. We will continue to fight for this, for our common future, for a just Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-08-17-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, our MSZP colleague, Member of Parliament, has received a motion to waive her immunity 14.Bpk.1126/2018/4. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. From the District Court on a private charge. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, I declare that 40 Members are members of the Parliament Act 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the H/964 on the increase of the care fee. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement T/965 on the suspension of certain provisions of Act No. For the purpose of the discussion of these proposals. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please put your hands up and vote. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. However, I would also like to announce that Mr. György Balla is a faction director [[Gergely Harvesto: Where is he?!]] In a letter, he initiated the repetition of the vote by using a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote by using a ballot counting machine. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 38 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions, so 38 Members are present in the Parliament, so the Parliament is not a quorum. Dear Parliament, House rules are 14. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules, I shall establish the list of missing representatives in accordance with the regulations of the House, as I have just mentioned. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted on the basis of the provisions of the house rules, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in September 2018. The meeting's closed. Have a good day, everyone.
