u2018-09-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Several members of the Jobbik and LMP Group wear white ribbons on their clothes.]] Dear Parliament, Day 1 of the autumn session of the House is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament that István Bethlen died in the 72nd year of his life. István Bethlen, born in Cluj-Napoca, obtained his mandate in the colours of the MDF at the first free parliamentary elections in 1990, and was a member of the Parliament until 1994. During his time in Parliament, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, Taxation and Finance and member of the Committee on Human Rights, Minorities and Religion and the Committee on European Community Affairs. After his years in the Parliament, he was a member of the Presidency of the International Pan-European Union, and between 1994 and 2012 he served as President of the Hungarian Association of Pan-European Union. He was a university professor, financial expert, political analyst and publicist, and his writings were often published by the Hungarian and international press. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room stand up.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that the decision on certain house rules 3. § and 12. On 16 September 2018, Mr Lóránt Keresztes was elected as Head of the Group by the Group of the Group of the May Other Political Group. I would like to thank Ms Bernadett Szél for her work so far, and allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Mr László Keresztes an effective job and good luck. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before today's agenda, entitled "The Opening of the Autumn Session." I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
u2018-09-17-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, According to our constitutional customs, the Prime Minister will report to the House at the beginning of each parliamentary session on what happened between the two sessions. This is also the time when we talk about what we might expect in the near future. That's why I'm standing here. Dear House, As we all know, the national government launched a new economic policy in 2010. Our national economic policy is so different from the socialist-liberal economic policy before 2010 that it is not exaggerating to call it a new economic model. After this economic policy comes from Hungarian interests, it is justified to call it a Hungarian model. Well, Honourable House, the Hungarian model did well again this summer. We have good reason to express our appreciation to the actors of the Hungarian economy, workers, entrepreneurs, employers, the National Bank and the leaders of the economy, especially to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, who also represents continuity. If there is work, there is everything - this is not only common wisdom, but also the essence of the Hungarian economic model. Today, we in Europe are building a work-based economy rather than a trendy aid-based economy. In the summer, we all, you and I, had the first six months of economic data in hand. Compared with 2010, the number of employees increased by nearly 800 thousand, mainly in the private economy in Hungary, where the number of workers increased by 600 thousand. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] We are approaching the four-and-a-half-million-dollar dream limit, and soon there will be four-and-a-half million Hungarians working. Unemployment, this House, is 3.6 percent at the end of the first semester, and this is the third place in Europe after the Germans and the Czechs. That's nice, but it's not enough. We're here to take the top of the European ranking. Sixty-five months ago, more than five years ago, wages continued to rise in Hungary. Although we have come a long way since 2010, we are still not where we want to go. In any case, the triple agreement between employers, workers and the government on wage increases and reductions has been respected by all parties so far, and I have been promised that this will continue in the future. [[13.10]] This means that there will continue to be good and encouraging periods in the Hungarian economy. This also means that we keep our commitment, which we did in 2010 and then in 2014, and then in 2018, so that we will govern so that it is more and more worth working and having children. The results of the Hungarian model also encourage us to reach our goal, and by 2030 Hungary will be among the five best and most livable countries of the European Union. Mr President, I can also report to this House that the Hungarian economy has increased by 4.8 percent in the second quarter, and this is twice the average of the European Union. That's good news for everyone. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] That's good news for everyone, for pensioners. According to our agreement with pensioners, it is almost certain that at the end of the year we will be able to pay a pension premium again. In our view, in today's success of the Hungarian economy, the former work of pensioners is involved, and they must share in today's successes; it is worthy and fair. Dear House, It was noted that the German BMW plant decided to invest significantly in Debrecen. Such a decision usually has a number of reasons. I am convinced that the decisive reason is the excellent Hungarian labour force, Hungarian workers with excellent skills and performance. We have every reason to be proud of our world-class workers. It is thanks to them that the industrial power centers are raging from Győr to Debrecen. However, I feel that there has been insufficient attention given to the fact that even more investment than BMW has been announced in the past few days. This is a real big investment in Tiszaújváros, where MOL and ThyssenKrupp together build a plant worth HUF 390 billion. The investment will start this year. Congratulations on another success of MOL, which we are proud of. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: 400 forints of gasoline!]] At the same time, I remind you that there is sufficient reason to lift our hats to those working in agriculture. After harvest crop data show that Hungary would be able to feed not 10 but 20 million people. [[Gergely Harvesto: If it weren't for you!]] Dear House, More than one and a half million children began the school year in public education. A million kids get textbooks for free. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: A few for two million!]] Maybe it's not in Europe. Now 85 000 students were admitted to higher education, which was 2.5 thousand more than last year. Sixty-five thousand people get state scholarships, and that's five grand more than a year ago. As you know, the greatest development of the history of Hungarian public education is taking place. In 2018, we spend 606 billion forints more on education than in the last socialist year in 2010. More than 500 developments are taking place, and in recent days we have distributed 45,000 laptops, 24,000 tablets and another 8 thousand other tools to help digital education. This is another step, I think, another record; this was hardly the case in the history of Hungarian education. A real investment in the future. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Success story. It's a real success story.]] Dear House, As far as the near future is concerned, two areas deserve special attention: population issues and European policy. Life has mathematics, and sometimes it's cruel. This has already been dealt with by those who are ahead of us. And I quote: "If we're runnin' out of time, there'll be no more Hungarians of God. "I'm sorry," wrote Gold. The formula is simple. If we do not strengthen the Hungarian families, if no more children are born, we will eventually run out, and the Hungarian people will also run out with us. As far as we're concerned, we don't want to accept that. We are a national Christian government, and we have already pursued a family-oriented policy. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] What has happened so far is a necessary but not sufficient condition for our survival. We need more and more initiatives, so we are about to launch a national consultation on which to base our further steps. I feel that somehow the big issue of the nation's future is also linked to the creation of a new National Basic Lesson Plan. The draft has already been put to public debate. I would ask the honourable public, including the opposition, to join the dialogue. Another political debate that will trigger public attention in the near future will take place on the European stage. A European Parliament election will be held in May 2019. At this point, the mandate of the members of the European Commission expires and the current European elite is leaving. It's about time. They couldn't keep the United Kingdom inside Europe and they couldn't keep migrants outside Europe. Both are serious mistakes, historical. The question is, what's coming after them? This will be decided by the citizens of Europe in May 2019. Everything seems to point to this: migration will be the most important issue in the future. Accordingly, the political forces in Europe today are divided into two camps: pro-immigration and anti-immigration. [[13.20]] Today, this is more important than party sympathy, so today it overwrites traditional party structures. Today, the anti-immigration forces stand out in Italy, Austria, Hungary and Poland. There's more of us, but they're not in the spotlight. Italy and Poland are being watched because of their size and Hungary and Austria due to their special geographical situation. These four countries are under constant attack. There is not a day in European politics that goes by that someone doesn't get a leg. The pro-immigration bureaucrats in Brussels are attacking, as are the pro-immigration national governments. These four countries are being attacked from the Shooting Stations of the Soros network, and the global elite is also attacking, which has thought so beautifully and in detail about the change of population in Europe, hoping to weaken nation states and Christian-based parties and then take over, the global elite can take over the leadership of the European Union and thus European nations. They want to weaken Hungary and Poland by means of criminal actions called the rule of law in Brussels, they want to remove the key internal minister in Italy, and they are using the power of mass gravity of politics against Austria. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Dear House, I believe that immigration and the migrant invasion are not a party issue, but a prime national issue, which overcomes party tactical considerations, so Hungary is solidarity with all anti-immigration governments, whatever its party composition. I want to make it clear that they can count on us. In my view, this is also linked to the European Parliament's report on Hungary and its timing. There has been a child debate about whether the report is about Hungary or the Hungarian government. I suggest you all read the title of the document. They could have also written that the report is about the Hungarian government and its decisions, but no, it was not written, but it was written: Hungary. It is therefore obvious that the report was written about Hungary and against Hungary. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] 19 of the report's statements are currently on the subject of disputes, 13 points are already closed debates and agreements, and 37 points are factual errors. There are absurd claims here, such as anti-Semitism in Hungary. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] It is well known that the policy of zero tolerance is in place against anti-Semitism in Hungary. It is also known that, due to the religious dimension of migration, anti-Semitism is only growing in Western Europe and is decreasing in Central Europe. In fact, the situation is that the European centre of modern anti-Semitism is located in Brussels, in Brussels politics, where anti-Israel policy actions are financed by massive billions. The statements on this are available to us, the Hungarian government. Dear House, Hungary gives respect to everyone, sometimes I feel that it is also to those who may not have to. But with all due respect, this report can only be called an absurd collection of lies. The way the report is adopted is clearly a violation of the EU Statute for a law student. In other words, they want to prosecute a Member State because of the perceived shortcomings in the rule of law by ignoring the most fundamental rule of law. The Hungarian Government plans to take legal action and we will ask Minister Gulyás to act on this matter. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, I'd like to clear the air. I see that Hungary is being attacked because the Hungarian people have decided that we will not be an immigrant country. Mr President, Dear House, We've already fought two battles. The first was when the first great wave of illegal migrants reached Europe. Let us remember that in 2015, Brussels raised its hand and we heard litanias that illegal immigration cannot be stopped. Then we, building a fence, have proved that we can if there is will and determination to do so. The second battle struck out in relation to the quota. Millions of Hungarians have expressed their unanimous will, and we have made it clear that Hungary does not request a compulsory resettlement quota. And we weren't alone. As a result of our clear stand, more and more of the European Member States share our position. Dear House, We have protected our borders and made it clear that we are the ones who decide who we want to live with and who we don't. I see that the pro-immigration people have only one solution: they want to take away Hungary's right to border protection. This proposal will be discussed with the prime ministers in Salzburg this week. I would like to say my position that it is welcome that the European Union is finally looking at border protection instead of quotas. It is also right to strengthen the protection of our borders. It is also right for those who are not strong enough to defend their borders to be helped. But it is not right that they want to take away the right to border protection from us, and instead Brussels wants to control the protection of the Hungarian border. Ladies and Gentlemen, After the German occupation of Hungary in 1944 and the Soviet occupation in 1945, we were not masters of our own borders for decades. In 1990, we finally regained our sovereignty and with it the right to protect our own borders. Our borders are protected not only by professionals, but also by patriots, and they are the bond of the Hungarian army and the police forces, which they swear to. That's the surplus you can't buy for any money. This is our strongest shield, which is why we thank our uniforms on the Hungarian border. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] For Brussels bureaucrats, the fence is not a fence, but - remember - with gate wings. They are not talking about the need to protect the borders of the Union by all means, but about establishing a porter service. They don't want to stop it, they want to manage immigration. They want the gate key. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] This was clearly and clearly said by the leader of the largest European state in his national parliament. Now I'm going to quote him to those who think there's no such plan. This is what we have heard: The states that have an external border give national powers in order to give Frontex a truly comprehensive competence. And this is also a measure of solidarity when it comes to people coming to us, or when we have obligations to allow, for example, legal migration. These are the facts! It's hard to get the wrong idea. They want to take away Hungary's right to border protection in order to allow migration. Our position on this issue is clear: our country is not a gateway, nor is it a assembly camp. If we wanted to mix with other cultures and civilizations, we would consult and decide on this, although I would reject the Hungarian people from this idea. Either way, this decision belongs to them and to them alone. [[13.30]] Dear House, Mr President, Public security in Europe has deteriorated since the immigration crisis, which is a matter of fact. Since the start of the migrant crisis in Europe, official data show that terrorist attacks from a migrant background have killed 347 people. These unsubs got into Europe. They're still trying to get in the future. Hungary has proven its ability to defend its borders. Everyone could see that we're not just talking, we're acting. It is hardly possible for anyone to doubt that we know this question and this task. We know border protection better than anyone in Brussels or in an international organisation. That's why we're not giving up the law of border surveillance, we're not gonna let anyone take a jot. Accordingly, I represent Hungary at this week's European summit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Long-lasting, big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-2	Dear Parliament, After the Prime Minister's speech has exceeded 20 minutes, the leaders of the political groups have eight minutes to comment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the provisions of the House Rule, the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda can only be addressed by the faction leaders and the deputy group leaders. According to the monitor, Ferenc Gyurcsány, the head of the DK faction, asked for the first word. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-3	Dear House, Anyone who is delusional and thinks, for example, Napoleon, cat, or even Hungary, is called a dissociative public and medical language. [[Interjections, clarity and sporadic applause in the pro-government benches.]] I see that the Hungarian government has such a split mind. The Hungarian government thinks it is Hungary. I suppose you should be treated, not primarily for yourself, but for the country. But to simplify the example for you, when the Prime Minister calls the argument childish about what this particular report is about, then, forgive me, I am obliged to say that the Prime Minister's argument is stupid. And I am infinitely sorry that I'm going to tell a law-abiding man that. Who is the legal entity of the contract with the European Union? Any government? No. Is it a ministry? No. Hungary. It was signed on behalf of Hungary by the competent Prime Minister at the time. [[Interviews from Fidesz, among other things: Who was it? It's a detachment.]] Hungary is indeed included in the title of the report. How many times does the review of Hungary appear in the report? Mr. Prime Minister? You know the answer, you must be prepared. Not once. How many times does the criticism addressed to the Hungarian government appear in this report? Mr. Prime Minister? 48 times. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Prime number 48? It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]] The 48 in this case is not the Hungarian truth, but the Hungarian government's error. But if you don't understand this problem, I'll help you. If your favorite patriot chain, CBA, sells raw and smelly meat, it appears on the Internet that there's a problem with CBA. But that doesn't mean that all the employees of the CBA are responsible or caused the problem, but it's obviously the freight carrier and the quality inspector. I understand that you guys have a hard time swallowing this frog, and you're like a cowardly little kid under your mother's skirt, which in this case is a nation, but to be honest, it's not just unmanly, it's cowardly. It's just cowardice. Before I go about this, let me tell you something else about this anti-Semitic comment. To be an anti-Semitist, a government does not simply need to tolerate, say, open, aggressive, physical anti-Semitism. That's not the only thing we need. An anti-Semitic message is to build a cult around anti-Semitic historical persons. If you take on continuity with anti-Semitic governments, a system. Who calls Horthy an exceptional statesman, who praises Homan, who erects a statue of Bethlen, is the Hungarian XX. The century places its anti-Semitic historical political personalities at the heart of historical memory and presents it as an example to follow, please. That's the problem! [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks. István Szávay: Who should I have? Gyula Horn? A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] On the other hand, going back to the content of the report, you claim that everything here is about the refugee issue. Please, I'm sure you've been filming this report. It's kind of like when the student fails, he goes home and tells his father that, well, Dad, there's a problem. We did a test, there were 12 questions, and I couldn't answer 11 properly, and I failed. But that's not the case. This test consisted of 12 questions, and in all 12 of them you received insufficient. They are just cowards to say that, please, in 12 questions, the European Parliament has declared the performance of not Hungary but of your performance insufficient. They're just so cowardly, please, they run away from responsibility and hide with the people. Maybe my 85-year-old mother is responsible for what happened in this country. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Yes.]] Or you? [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What you have failed at is the entire second chapter of the Treaty with the European Union, which is about democracy, rights, respect for human rights. That's where they failed. The fact that there is also a debate on refugee issues, gives an abstract with the European Union or with us, is true. But to show that this is the only argument, to be honest, is a big lie. The fact is that they do not dare to take up the debate on any other matter, and they think that the most primitive argument can get away with the responsibility they should face, only cowards. The electoral system, justice, corruption, protection of privacy, freedom of expression, freedom of scientific life, freedom of religion, freedom of association, the right to equal treatment, respect and protection of minority rights, followed by asylum as 11th, then as 12th, economic and social rights. That's what it's all about. You do not talk about the other 11 or because you have nothing to say or because you think that what you would say in Europe or in Hungary would not be acceptable to most Hungarians in Europe. Please, I won't give you many examples in the last minute. There are many kinds of election systems to be made. Sure. There is only one condition for a politically legitimate electoral system to be based on a compromise and agreement between the political parties in conflict. You can make clean individual areas like Britain, but there you agreed. You can make a clean list of choices, like in Holland, they agreed on it. A one-party election system is never politically legitimate. If we put it behind him to take away the free information of the opposition and the free information of a large part of the country, to use their public authority to make those opposed to you financially impossible, and on the other hand to accuse you of the means of justice, I must say that you are making a dictatorship. You're making a dictatorship! [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]] You don't have to make a fuss, and you're a dictator. That's the thing. The fact is that these data of an economic nature will not be included in the pages of the Hungarian history book, but that you are, in a political sense, Prime Minister, a scoundrel. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[13.40]]
u2018-09-17-4	Dear House, I did not wish to interrupt the speaker's first sentences at the beginning, but I would just like to note to Ferenc Gyurcsány that you, as regards the need for treatment, have fallen on a rather shaky ground, and I am not sure that you are lucky. Márton Gyöngyösi is next as leader of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, If you are talking about absurdities, I must say that eight years after your government, the absurdity of listening to Ferenc Gyurcsány is still to be heard here. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interviews from DK's ranks, among other things: You can go!]] I would like to remind you that 12 years ago, on 24 October 2006 in Strasbourg, you called on the leaders of the European Union to treat corruption, moral relativism, poverty, governments that provide false data, politicians who do not know responsibility and political lies as their own internal affairs, and in no way to support, do not assist, in any way, these cheating and lying governments, you said 12 years ago. In 2018, the leaders of the European Union seem to have listened to you and your request, even if these items are as true to the Gyurcsány government as to your governance and your government. [[Interventions from DK's ranks, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not exactly!]] However, before the Prime Minister becomes fully involved in the heroic position protecting Europe and the role of victim, it would be very good to clarify what this Sargentini report is really about. There is no doubt that Mrs Sargentini's ideological bias runs through this report. There are a number of misunderstandings and even irresistible lies and slanders in this report against Hungary, particularly as regards racism and anti-Semitism, as the Prime Minister has stated. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] This report is unfair because it is unfortunate that the subject of migration has been included and that the allocation of illegal immigrants according to quota is part of this report. It is unfair because you have allowed 23,000 migrants into this country with settlement government bonds or the granting of protection status, and you have overachieved it abundantly. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Your Russian buddies!]] the quota you're criticizing right now. With this, Mrs Sargentini, the rapporteur, threw you a lifeline to draw attention to the essential findings of a 68-page report. For those of you who have read not only the title of this report, I would like to say what this report is really about, since it is factually possible to list the number of points in this report which you, Prime Minister, and your government have done in the last eight years. The rule of law is being broken down, the rule of law is being abolished, the total occupation of independent institutions is taking place at a time of party time. I would just like to remind you that at the head of the SAO, an ex-fidesz representative swore to eliminate opposition parties and imposed a fine of HUF 660 million on the strongest opposition party, only so that your government would not have an opposition here in Hungary. Complete occupation of media and public media, uploading the Media Council with Fidesz party soldiers 100%. It is no coincidence, Prime Minister, that when you were playing in Strasbourg a week ago, just when you said that we would never try to silence those with whom we do not agree, your words were received by a loud blow, as it is probably not by chance that within a few years of your administration, the Hungarian Nation, the People's Freedom, the Origo, the Watcher, the Weekly Response ceased. [[Lajos Kósa: The Watcher?]] Just to name one or two of these, and I didn't tell you then that the entire public service has been eliminated during your eight-year government. But in the same way, the destruction of civilians, the occupation of the courts and the total einstantisation of the prosecution are also your work, which, I understand, was necessary, as it is possible to cover up the enormous corruption that currently characterizes this country, to cover up the fact that the transfer of public procurement and EU funds to the circle of friends, the transfer of family members and the transfer of strómans to Hungary is not a crime today, since the prosecution assists you in covering up corruption. So unfortunately, Mrs Sargentini has some truth in this, so not you and your government, but the whole country is being punished by the withdrawal of EU funds. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: What withdrawal?]] in the European Union. Those who voted in favour of this report voted in favour of paying for your sins, pensioners and teachers [[Interviews from DK's ranks: No, it's not true! That's not true! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Because, obviously, the taxpayers will pay the price for your crimes. Last week, Prime Minister, you have also lost two thirds of your neck, and you have lost not only in view of the plenary of the European Parliament but also in terms of your own party family, Prime Minister. After all, even your former allies have said no to your politics, such as Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, pro-People politician Manfred Weber, or Robert Fico, whose friendship you gave up to the Hungarians in the Highlands in exchange for your friendship. [[A statement from the opposition: Shame!]] His interest interests, the Polish PO or even the British Conservatives, who, although not in favour of this report, are now rumored that what you are doing in the Tories is a disgrace, and that you will be initiated by the British Conservatives to completely disenfranchise you. In Europe, you have lost, you have come to a crossroads, Prime Minister, it is perhaps not too late to back down from this position. My suggestion is that you shouldn't cover everything in your resentment. Here, for years, it has fought to have a common border protection in Europe and to create the kind of institution that provides full border protection for Europe through Frontex. There is no need for mercenaries to hand over the rights of border guards, under the control of the commanders of the host country, these border guards, and they would be subject to the laws of the host country. So don't hold on to the wrong statements of some politicians here, look at what this proposal is about, and I ask you that if you have already stepped into migration - and, by the way, quite rightly - then don't ruin it, in this matter, support Europe's ability to defend its common borders, because it will not be the few-mile fences that you have raised that will protect Europe as a whole, I hope you will see that. We need cooperation, and in this, please cooperate with the European Union, because, yes, we want to protect Hungary as well as Europe from migration, and I ask you to accept the proposal of your own European allies: stop destroying the rule of law, as you probably don't want to be a dictator either. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] join the history books. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-6	Now, on behalf of the Dialogue, it is up to the Head of the Szabó Timea Group. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You are talking about attacks and traitors after a vote where not Hungary, but only your government, was convicted by two thirds. The Sargentini report, adopted by two thirds, did not say that the Hungarian people were responsible for having the lowest pension in the EU, but claimed that the Orbán government was responsible for the misery of hundreds of thousands of pensioners from 28-30-40 thousand forints per month. The Sargentini report stated that you - and not the Hungarian people - are chasing the poor homeless people who have been abandoned, it is your government that is still kicking and putting those who should be helped. The Sargentini report did not say that the Hungarian people were paying the unemployment benefit for the shortest period, but that you were delivering the allowance from 9 months to 3 months. Prime Minister, for you, every attack and anyone who disagrees with you is a traitor. Traitors are MEPs who condemn the fact that EU money is not spent on Hungarian people, but on himself, his family and his buddies. [[13.50]] You also believe that the opposition representatives are traitors, who protest against turning Hungary, our country, back into a Russian colony, and making the Hungarian people subjects of Putin again. You think they're traitors in the end, as are the civilians who do the work for you, the help that the patients, the needy, the unfortunate supporter because of your inhumanity. People don't get it. But who is the real traitor, Prime Minister? In Hungary, you said that students will receive the textbook for free for a while, but there are 300,000 Hungarian children who do not have teaching instruments at the beginning of the year. There are 50,000 children who have fallen into poverty because of your 16 years of compulsory education. Who is the traitor then, Prime Minister? Every year, 30,000 people die of cancer, a disease that could be cured or prevented. A town the size of Szekszárd disappears every year in Hungary because you steal money from health care. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right! Noise in opposition benches.]] This number is the highest in the Union. There are no doctors at the Honvéd Hospital, the nurses quit the hospital last week, and thousands of our highly trained nurses are still leaving the country to Austria, Germany, because you don't appreciate them, but you pay them. Then who is the traitor, Prime Minister? Your government now executes the well-known research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences for political and power purposes only. Then who is the traitor, Prime Minister? In Hungary, air pollution is one of the highest in Europe, with higher air pollution than in China or India. 70,000 Hungarians die each year because you steal the EU funds for this. Then who is the traitor, Prime Minister? 500,000 young people have fled Hungary under your government because they have no prospects at home because of you. A million grandma and grandpa can hug their grandkids once a year, the Sunday lunch tables are empty because of you. Then who is the traitor, Prime Minister? Your son-in-law, István Tiborcz, steals billions of dollars from EU funds without being punished for hundreds of thousands of forints if you don't pay an invoice. Then who is the traitor, Prime Minister? 900 thousand implementation procedures are underway in Hungary today. Two million people are still affected by the foreign exchange credit problem today because you're still on the bank side, those banks... - you're just doing the mouth karate to help the banks. . But how is it that if the Hungarian people are helped, how is it that Minister Trocsányi's law firm still bears his name, he represents the banks in these lawsuits, in the foreign exchange credit lawsuits, and not the Hungarian people? Because that's where they're hoping for the money, that's why. Tens of thousands are at risk of eviction in Hungary today. Last week, the house in which a single mother and an autistic, speechless and cancerous son rented a small apartment was auctioned off. They have to leave the house at the beginning of October. Who is the traitor, Prime Minister? The mother who nurses her sick, comatose child every day, who has no vacation, no vacation, but not even a movie, brings home 58 thousand forints a month, while two of her ministers earn you 5 million forints. Then who is the traitor, Prime Minister? The fact is, Prime Minister, that you are indeed attacking Hungary, you are attacking the Hungarian people and you are a traitor; you are a traitor to many, many Hungarian people when instead of the interests of the country, when the Hungarians, instead of the interests of the Hungarian people, are looking only at the enrichment of themselves and their friends. All you care about is money, stealing and power, and that's why you're political. You don't give a damn about Hungary, you don't give a damn about Hungarian people. For you Hungary is not the first, but the last, for you money and power are the first. In the Dialogue, Hungary is the first, the Hungarian people are the first [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] and we will do everything we can to prevent them from destroying this country, stealing this country and making the Hungarian people subjects again. Thank you.
u2018-09-17-8	It is now up to the head of the MSZP Group, Bertalan Tóth. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you came to Parliament today with a big, heavy piece of paper. I am not referring to the paper from which you read your speech, because it was found to be rather easy, because it was not included in it, or it was not written to you that a euro was going to cost HUF 325, it was not written that the budget deficit had disappeared, because the European Union was not paying the subsidies to Hungary because of various irregularities. Probably in this paper you have read, it is not mentioned that hundreds of thousands of people have left Hungary to work or to flee from your system, and that hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians are planning to do so. The heavy, heavy paper I am talking about is what the European Parliament has accepted, and while you are going to Brussels to protect Hungary, this paper came from Strasbourg. You have a record of a criminal record in 12 points that states, among other things, that you are a repeat infringer, a renegade non-standardist, which states that instead of serving the common good and the majority, you are expressing self-interest, political goals, and enriching your own political elite. This paper states that you are no longer a strong man of Europe, as you have said, but a pariah of Europe. And this paper also records, and perhaps this is the most serious thing, that you are ruling against the will of the people, because at the time when Hungary joined the European Union, it was not just about a treaty that was not just about a treaty, and it was not just a treaty that was confirmed by a referendum - how strange it was that a referendum decided on this then - but the Hungarian people decided that they wanted to belong to the European community of values. We believe, we believed, and a significant majority of Hungarian people believed that these were the basic values that Hungary has fought for since the change of regime, and I would like to tell you that 84 percent of Hungarians supported this at that time, four fifths of Hungarians. Allow me to quote you, as you have already said, that we have often been in the position that the interests of Hungarian citizens were represented by the European Union against the Hungarian government. We are convinced that the enforcement of our common values and principles cannot be considered. The European Union should therefore be entrusted with the necessary means to continuously encourage its members to represent the values and to comply with the principles. Without it, there is no strong Europe. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what just happened, Prime Minister. Now two thirds of the European Parliament, including your former allies, have issued the certificate, and they have actually decided that Hungary is no longer a democracy, Hungary is off the road. For this reason, the MSZP will make proposals to make those European rules and the former democratic rules of Hungary the most important again and to re-establish democracy in Hungary. We will present the proposals that we have already tabled, which have only been voted down, but if you support it - and I am speaking to Members now, then democracy will be again in Hungary, and this European procedure can be forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, it's up to you. Prime Minister, we know what you said when you told us not to listen to what I'm saying, but what I'm doing. The situation is much more serious now, because we see Prime Minister talking nonsense. Three years ago, he talked about the need to take away European border protection from Greece, and the European Union must ensure this, and even the Hungarian government can stand border protection until the European Union appears, and now he is talking about mercenaries and rejecting this solution. [[14.00]] It called for joint action on terrorism a few years ago or a few months ago, and now that they want to confer such powers on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Hungary does not, of course, join this programme. He is talking about migration, while we are hearing that he is giving a residence permit to the nearby people of the Syrian dictator causing migration, or he is giving people close to the Russian secret service an opportunity to settle down. He behaves as in the case of Hungarian, that when he goes to Finland, he talks about the fact that the Hungarian language and the Hungarian people belong to the Finno-Ugric language family, and when he meets Asian dictators, he says the Hungarian language belongs to the Turkic language family. Yes, I'm worried now, because I understand you're going to visit your favorite friend Putin in Moscow. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] , and although we have many words from the Slav, from the Slavic language, I hope that we will not get to the point that the Hungarian language belongs to the Slavic language family. (Development from Jobbik's ranks. ) Meanwhile, when you talk nonsense, we say little about Hungary's real and serious problems. At the beginning of school, 4325 teachers were missing from public education. Where are these teachers? They either work abroad or go to private schools where you teach your children. In the summer, complete classes were lost in hospitals. Tragic, chaotic situation in emergency care. There are 1,800 doctors missing from the system, there are no district doctors available in 1,600 settlements. In comparison, we can see that entrepreneurs close to you are investing in private health from stolen money. We can see that hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians are preparing to leave the country, because in Hungary, although you are very proud of the wage increase, we can still find the lowest wages in Europe. What country is it where workers are not fighting in the private sector for their own rights, for their own wages, but, in fact, the government wants to increase their wages? [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] You referred to large investors here, referred to the excellence of the Hungarian labour force, but you do not care how much Hungarian workers will earn there, or you did not mention how many billions or even hundreds of billion forints it will cost to taxpayers, Hungarian workers. That is why I would like to emphasise that we should not be an ally of the multinationals, but what we say is that we must be allies of the workers working in the multinationals. You have to give them back the right to fight for a raise. If you look at it, in Western European countries, trade union rights there can achieve significant results, and there is no such thing as a government's will for any Hungarian employee. Mr. Prime Minister, You're twelve immigrants. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] extended the crisis. 5,000 missing teachers, 1800 doctors, 1,600 missing district doctors, 80,000 vacant posts: this is the real emergency. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-09-17-10	Now it's time for Mr. László Keresztes, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, This debate is shocking to me in a number of ways, so before I speak or begin to express my opinion on the content, let me refer to two moments. [[L. Simon László: There are two Moments?]] Which was weird for me. When the Prime Minister began his speech before the agenda with such an economic report and started his campaign speech, because let's face it, it was actually a campaign speech, he smiled. I think it was symbolic, and it was felt that the Prime Minister felt the seriousness and the merits of his contribution. On the other hand, on the other hand, when we heard the voice of the head of the Szabó Timea faction, with whom I am debating a lot of issues, the entire Fidesz fraction listened with shock when it spoke about the impossible situation of home caregivers, or when it mentioned the tragedies of eviction, even the Fidesz faction was shocked to hear this comment. Allow me one more thing before I comment on my content. Before you started the debate on the issue of migration and the future of Europe, you made a very brief look at their economic achievements. He spoke about a Hungarian model - I am sorry to call it a Hungarian model - and he said that you or your economic policy would differ from the economic policy of your predecessors. I can deny that. I think they are pursuing the same neoliberal economic policy, and they are also pursuing economic policies based on cheap and vulnerable Hungarian workers. You had an indication that the power centers were buzzing. Now, I'm an MP in Pécs, and I can tell you that I represent a power center that doesn't zap. I represent one of the country's best or fastest-off areas, where everything can be found from the big city in economic difficulties to the little villages that have lost hope, and this is today's Hungarian reality, unfortunately. Let me make one more reference. You are talking about the issue of migration, Prime Minister. In addition to my city, you and your government wanted to build a reception station, which was prevented by the brave Martonfa settlement leaders and the citizens of Pécs by demonstration. Now, let's move on to the debate that you started. By the way, I agree with a significant part of the contributions of colleagues and opposition colleagues, a significant part of the critical contributions. At the same time, I would like to respond to the debate that you have launched and conducted in your speech before the agenda. You said that the main stake in the European election campaign was that the struggle of the pro-migrant, pro-migration and anti-migration forces will determine the future of the European Union and the future of Europe and, in this way, our common future. I'd like to argue with you, Prime Minister. I agree, Prime Minister, that the European Union could not deal with this issue, it could not handle it in its place, it could not protect it, it could not take action to protect Europe's borders, or it could not deal with it in accordance with its weight. Today, too, in addition to the many common voices, we often encounter hypocritical, self-righteous approaches to the issue of migration, and a lot of people bury their heads in the sand. However, it is not true that this is the confrontation, as you have said, that the fight against the forces supporting migration and combating migration is expected. We need to establish that, and I think we can agree on that, that there really has not been a genuine, honest debate about the causes of the migration crisis at the level of the European Union or even at home. In this way, no action has even been launched. What I can say, Prime Minister, is that the real question, the real question in the European Union campaign, is whether or not Europe wants to act. If we are making such a division as to who European politicians are who are strengthening the camp of those who have not acted and have not been able to put an understandable and viable explanation on the table and, accordingly, to address the causes, I must say, Prime Minister, that you are also strengthening the camp of these politicians. I see, Prime Minister, that you are not interested in solving or dealing with the effects of the migration crisis. You are interested in using this as a campaign tool to cover the situation from critical Hungarian reality. My fellow Members have already mentioned what this is about, the situation of the Hungarian economy and the situation of Hungarian society. Colleagues mentioned that hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of young people were forced to migrate from the country. What does your government say? You claim to be national, you say that this is a national government. One of your ministers replied to my questions about this, that there is no problem, that there is simply a common European labour market. I don't see it that way. The other member told your government that people who go away actually go to work experience or go to learn a language. Well, I can deny that. As I said before, I'm from Pécs, 13 thousand people have left Pécs in ten years, Prime Minister. I can tell you that I'm sure these people didn't go to learn a language, they went out of necessity. You are talking about the support of families, and rightly so, I agree perfectly with that, but they do not dare to face the problem of an increasing percentage of Hungarian children born abroad in the motherland. This also disproves your claim that they are only doing work, that the Hungarians are leaving as guest workers. No, Prime Minister, a lot of people are already going abroad to plan a family and start a family. He doesn't talk about the situation in the countryside, he doesn't talk about the situation of hopeless little villages. They do not talk about the fact that the settlements, the metropolises, are now shaken, are not able to solve their own farming situation on their own. For eight years, I've been a councilman in the city of Pécs, and I know exactly what I'm talking about. Basic systems are creaking, crunching, and there's no debate about them. We can't talk to anyone about this, I would add, your loyalty is infinitely loyal, and, in a manner of speaking, the cities that fear your political anger or guidance will not dare to bring such questions to you. By the way, I cannot judge how much you are faced with these real problems, that, if necessary, the issue of drinking water may even be critical within a few years. Well, what I can tell you, Prime Minister, is that the debate you started on the issue of migration is a false argument based on a real problem, because you are using it to cover up reality. [[14.10]] What I can tell you is that the European Union, as it stands, is not capable of meeting clearly visible social, economic and environmental challenges. This Union cannot answer these questions in this form. But at national level, everything should have been done, and the last decades and the last two government cycles should have been used, Prime Minister, to do everything at least at national level to prepare for these challenges. What I can say, Prime Minister, is that, as a result of your governance, Hungary is now much more vulnerable and, indeed, most vulnerable to these effects than ever since the change of regime. That is why we are saying this, and here I have to argue with a number of my opposition fellow Members who have already demonstrated from a government position that they are pursuing the same failed policy, that it is our job to have a real XXI. Develop a political alternative of the 21st century, which can provide an answer to the 21st century. It can prepare the country and prepare Europe to deal with the extremely dangerous and negative effects of globalisation. In relation to the Sargentini report, I have listed the tragic data and the national tragedies that are typical today, Prime Minister, as a balance of your government performance, but it must be said, and the LMP has expressed this firm position that it is not possible to punish a country because of the tragic performance of a government and the failure of a government, and therefore the LMP has not been able to contribute to the vote on the Sargentini report. We believe that these questions and these problems should be answered at national level from Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-17-12	Now it's time for the group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr. Peter Harrach, to order.
u2018-09-17-13	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear fellow Members, I cannot entirely agree with Márton Gyöngyösi's comment when he challenged Ferenc Gyurcsány's presence [[Gergely Harvester: Finally!]] We would have fallen from an artificial feast produced by the great comedy of the nation. [[Gergely Harvesto: We are here to make it good for you!]] But not just for this, but we couldn't congratulate you on the fact that on this day a few years ago your great speech, your other speech, was published in the autumn. During the other opposition contributions, such as the last, we have also heard of factual facts, but in many cases there was rudeness in the speakers. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: hypocrites...]] I think that such a degree of rudeness is not worthy of the Hungarian Parliament, even if it refers to frustration. That's your problem, but maybe you should control it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is to be discussed in the KDNP fraction...]] Some thoughts are now on what Prime Minister said, because it is our job to talk to the speech. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Talk about women...]] The results that appeared in the first half of the speech are truly honorable. Allow only headlines: financial stability had to be created in 2010; strategic sectors were involved in the patriotic economy; employment had to be increased; wages had to be increased. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: In London...]] The improvement in demographic indicators also means that family support and home-building support have produced results. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: István Tiborcz!]] I do not want to argue with my fellow Member right now. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You're welcome.]] But the facts must be taken into account. If you think there's no growth between 1.2 and 1.5, I don't know, huh? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No more children were born...]] But let's not do that. And if you'll allow me, I would like to confirm an important area in relation to the past and the near future, and that concerns all of us, because we have a new era ahead of us, a new development and change that is practically beyond what has been done so far, and that is the task of the Ministry of Innovation. This is really not a party political issue, it is a national political issue. Then let's look at the report that has been mentioned so many times before. We have often said that problems have been solved [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Which one?]] they are included in the Sargentini report, and we have also said that there are many untruths. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Where?]] And we've all seen that it was carried over by means of a procedural craftsmanship. I do not know what the Hungarian Parliament would say if we introduced similar measures here now, and the votes that represent a mild no would be eliminated. This was an obvious political intention on the part of those who drafted this report and carried it through. [[Gergely Arató: You've passed the poster law...]] And now the question is who's behind this report. Because it's true that it's a mansion, and it's true that a congresswoman has accepted it, but it's a team effort. On the one hand, there is an ideologically unified circle behind it, on which it may be said that they are believers in the theory of open society. This theory says cultures can live side by side. Evidence of immigration and subsequent social transformation [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] That's not true, it doesn't work. But not only ideological reasons, but also interests guided the creators. And what is most serious: there were not only international companies, but also Hungarians. The report itself lists civil society organisations involved in the provision of information and the wording. These political but civilized organisations did not come from the 60,000 real NGOs, but from the eleven funded political organisations. It was natural for them to defend themselves. The other question. You claim that this was directed against the Hungarian government. It is clear that the possible consequences that you hope to have are affecting Hungary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's how patriots you are!]] Therefore, when we ask who this report is directed against and its consequences, it is clear that it is against the country. That is why voting in favour of this report must be a serious act. And let us say it calmly: because this is Hungary, it was directed against our country, so we can call this treason. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right! Dr. Agnes Vadai: We'll see. War criminals in this country...]] Hungary is facing a difficult period, not only because we have to fight this fight, but we have to continue the construction that awaits us at home. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz...]] When the Fidesz-KDNP faction handles this issue calmly, i.e. the issue of our international struggles, then a significant part of its energy should be devoted to domestic construction, and as has been done for eight years, we will continue to do so in the near future. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's a big problem.]] and building a country where justice, justice, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] and Parliament has the rules of the game that have kept it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We can see that!]] their original beauty and legality. We will not go down the path that the European Union Parliament has wronged. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-17-14	Fidesz will be the last to respond to the factions. Máté Kocsis, the leader of the group, has the floor.
u2018-09-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Autumn 2018 opposition abuse competition is over. Everyone was involved in it according to their abilities. Now it's just a question of who won this race. The result must be declared. I don't want to offend any of the speakers, but Ferenc Gyurcsány won the opposition hater and abuser... [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you!]] My fellow Faction Leader intoxicated by his own thoughts [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] He imagined himself as an old-new leader of the opposition. You're in the right place, Mr. Group Leader. Inspire them, do it. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: What an acting skill they have!]] [[14.20]] But what's going on? What's up? I don't want to be frivolous because it's worse than we thought it would be, although nothing has happened compared to what we expected, because the fact is that I'd like to respond specifically to some things. Mr. Fraction Manager, first of all, you were the one who said you were the one who said that I would redeem Hungary. You've had a personality and role disorder, probably longer than we've known you from public life, but the fact that you've been under his control lately, we remember that clearly. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] You thought you were a king, and you said that the way I am is good for Hungary. Then Hungary thought quite differently about you, Mr. Group Leader. Anti-Semitism. You live in the confiscated villa of a former Jewish family, where you go home at night. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Definitely. Zsolt Gréczy: Lendvay Street!]] If there were any compensation, Mr. Group Leader, you would be homeless today, or if you had some honor, at least you wouldn't have taken that word to heart. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] And he wouldn't use it as a political tool. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] My fellow Member, Mr Péter Harrach, referred to the fact that he knew - I do not know if he has noticed - what is the anniversary of today, Mr Group Leader. Twelfth year is the publication of the autumn speech, when Hungary was able to get to know your true face, because you won an election by deceiving the Hungarians, falsifying the budget figures [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] He lied to them in the morning, at night and at night. You told me. [[Intercoms.]] You said it yourself, Mr. Group Leader. The fact is, he mentioned the rule of law. Dear Chief of Staff, You were the Prime Minister when they led a cavalry attack against the Hungarians [[Zsolt Gréczy: Experiment of coup! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! You know exactly what I'm talking about.]] eyes were shot out [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: By the way, you organized this! Intervention in opposition parties: There were more policemen than civilians!]] eyes were fired and women were beaten on the streets of the capital in Hungary, Mr. Group Leader. [[Continued intervention in opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Minority rights.
u2018-09-17-16	I'd like to ask the DK faction [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Speak louder?]] I don't want you to be able to be a little more comfortable here than you are. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-17	Minority rights. During your administration, neo-Nazi groups could hold meetings in Heroes' Square. This was no longer the case under the Orbán government. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Because they're sitting here! Zsolt Gréczy: They are sitting here!]] During your administration, Roma killings have occurred because you have been unable to rule the country's public security, and you are bound by extremists in the Castle. Corruption. Mr. Team Leader! When you were the Prime Minister, your company was given electricity at a cheaper price by the Hungarian Electricity Industries. Are you talking about corruption? [[Intercoms in the ranks of the governing parties: Do you remember him? That's right!]] Are you talking about corruption? ! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not like that! Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: You don't remember! Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true! István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros... György Szi-lágyi: Should have been counted!]] Mr. Team Leader! But let's just say the point of the debate. Let's just say the point of the debate. [[Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Fraction Manager, the reality is that you have a problem with immigration, you have a problem with our immigration policy, and that's where your debate comes from. And do you know why? That's because you hate the Hungarians, Mr. Group leader, and I'll tell you how. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you! You're always lying! Interviews in DK's ranks.]] and how he acted against them. When the leader of the group encourages the admission of immigrants, he at the same time instigates society, his own followers, against Hungarians across the border. [[Interventions in the ranks of the governing parties: That's right! That's right. Ferenc Gyurcsány: I can't hear you! Go ahead.]] That's what you do, Mr. Group Leader. [[Gergely Harvester: Lies! That's not true. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Lies! Dr. István Vitányi: Isn't that right?]] He has been campaigning against them for years, and I would no longer like to refer to 2004, and when it comes to immigration or the debates around it, you are initiating a signature collection - by 2015 - to accept Hungary's EU quota. You still have the biggest debate with us today about immigration. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] The thing is, Mr. Group Leader, you promised us in March 2018 that you would prove that a crowd celebrating Röszke 2 arrived on the border, who were brutally beaten by the police. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They're looking into it now! An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz.]] The thing is, Mr. Group Leader, you've been indebting the Hungarians. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The fact is, Mr. Group leader, that you have made hundreds of thousands of Hungarians unemployed, and the fact is, Mr. Group leader, that you have never believed in what we believe in to protect Christian culture. [[Gergely Harvestó: You can only lie from paper!]] And the point is, Mr. Group Leader, what is sadder or sadder than that is that you cannot accept the election results. It's been sent three times by voters as far away from government as possible. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I cheated!]] Mr. Fraction Leader, I reject your passionate and insulting, abusive speech to the Prime Minister and to our political community, because if there is a man sitting in the Hungarian Parliament who has no moral basis to speak at all, it is you, Mr. Group Leader! [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Gergely Harvester: Is it your decision? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Because obviously no one is silenced... continuous intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The fact is, Mr. Group Leader - and I would also like to address Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi - is that I very much agree with you, but the sad thing is that you have just entered into electoral cooperation with Ferenc Gyurcsány in the 15th century. district election. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik: You're sick! Get yourself checked out. György Szilágyi: Lies! You would've liked to have been accounted for. You wouldn't be sitting here.]] We agree on everything else. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] We agree on everything else. Mr. Team Leader, allow us to leave the political decisions to the electorate in peace. Trust the people who once let your party near the government, not the people, and certainly not the government they elected. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Return the TVs, radios, newspapers!]] ; look for the mistake of sitting on the side of the horseshoe now, what he has committed, what crimes he has committed against people, and why he will be on the disgrace of politics for a very long time. The toxic thoughts you represent here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Freedom? Justice? These?]] that toxic spirit, that deep hatred that you've been suggesting in everyday life for years, and that should be handled in a political detoxification. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-17-18	Dear Parliament, If you wish, I will give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-19	Mr President, I don't have much to add. We've heard interesting things. The strangest thing, perhaps, was that for about 20 minutes I fulfilled my obligation under constitutional customs, and I never once used the word "traitor," whereas Szabó Timea claimed that I was only talking about it. Isn't this about a Freudian speech? [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Szabó Timea: We expect better than this, Prime Minister.]] Many times I hear them talk about Hungarians working abroad as if they were doing something wrong, as if it were wrong to consider that opportunity, and then decide to work abroad. I remember well when the government of Péter Medgyessy discussed membership of the European Union, we were still in opposition, you were in the government, and then one of the most important tasks we defined for the negotiating delegation was to ensure that there were as few obstacles as possible to future Hungarian workers who wanted to work in the West. This was our joint mandate, which we gave to Péter Medgyessy. [[Interventions in the lines of MSZP and DK.]] After that, when we get people to work in the West, we can talk about working in the West as if the person who goes out there would do something wrong, I think it's malicious and wrong. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Why don't you leave it to the Hungarians to decide who is among them in that state, who is so brave, who is so well-mannered, who is there - it's not easy! That you're leaving Hungary to work abroad for whatever reason? Why would they want to show him in a negative light? I stand firm against those Hungarians. who decide otherwise [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This was the Freudian comment... Ágnes Kunhalmi: Comrade Freud... Public statements and applause in the ranks of opposition parties. György Szilágyi: That was the Freudian saying!]] who decide to work abroad, and who, by the way, can always count on us in terms of their legislation. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We find this to be the right thing to do, and if you want to work abroad, then take advantage of the opportunities that the European Union and the Hungarian Government are creating for this. Ladies and Gentlemen, I listened to the leaders of the opposition parties. I had the impression that I heard the old song again, as if the fact that you were embezzled had escaped your attention by the fact that there were parliamentary elections here five months ago. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Which, according to the OSCE, was not fair!]] For many years, the good Hungarian people have listened, considered, and then went to choose and decided that you are so big and we are so big. They've decided to give you that much trust, and we've decided to give you what you see here. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] This was not our decision, it was the decision of the Hungarian voters. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to make it clear that these debates on the Hungarian economy, family policy and migration have been defined and decided by the Hungarian voters, and they wanted us to continue our family policy, our economic policy and our national policy. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Health policy...]] and our policy towards migration. [[14.30]] I don't want to advise you - perhaps that's right - but perhaps you should consider that if you don't want to be stuck in the past and always ride in the same squirrel wheel, you might want to follow people, it will help a lot. Believe me, perhaps the questions that are really important for the lives of Hungarian people can be put on the agenda in this House instead of the old questions. The second thing I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, and ask the honourable opposition, is that if there is a situation like the last time, do not vote, never vote against Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We never vote against Hungary!]] One Thing Is Criticism [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Against the Hungarian Government, that's different!]] And it's another thing to turn against our country. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We do not turn against our country!]] I have listened to you now - I had time and opportunity - and I have a stronger suspicion that the majesty here, the infecting of Hungarian politics, that there are people and parties here who simply hate us more than they love their country. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Jesus! Gergely Harvesto: We hate you because we love our country! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They don't mean much to us, Prime Minister.]] That's a problem, because that line shouldn't be crossed. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] So instead of calling those who voted against Hungary a traitor, but somehow responding to this situation, I can tell you that there has been such a thing in international history, and I can only quote what Leonidas said in a similar situation when all he said to those who betrayed him or betrayed Sparta was to live forever. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, What I would like to tell you about the right to border protection is that this debate that I have presented here is unfolding. I didn't quote officials, I didn't quote bureaucrats, I quoted Europe's leading politicians. There is indeed a danger for us to rely on the strengthening of border protection from a country, perhaps from countries like us, who can defend their own borders, who leaves no doubt that they have the strength and determination to defend their external border with Schengen, and they want to take away the right. But why? If we need to strengthen those who can't protect him, we need to strengthen him. But why do we have to take the law away from us? [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Why must Hungary be deprived of the right to defend our border ourselves? We'll know who we need and who we don't have to let in. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's for sure!]] We know exactly where to build a fence. We know exactly how many thousands and ten thousand people have to serve there. Why would someone in Brussels want to take that right away? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Saying that the Hungarians will, of course, command, but they will come here from Brussels with the I don't know who... - why do we need this? Please think about it. Is that reasonable? If it doesn't make sense according to our logic, that is, the Hungarian border protection doesn't require this, if such a proposal makes sense, then it doesn't make sense, it doesn't mean protecting the border. They want us to hand over the gate key. They want to say who comes in and who doesn't, and their goal is not to protect the border, but to let people they want to let in and take in, but they just can't cross the Hungarian border. I therefore ask the opposition to represent the Hungarian national position on this issue, on the question of the reduction and the withdrawal of rights to Hungarian border protection, and I ask that they support the Hungarian Government's position in their own political family. I would just like to ask the opposition to stand with the nation on national matters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-20	Dear Parliament, A series of contributions before the agenda will now continue with the pre-notified contributions from the political groups. I give the floor to Ferenc Gyurcsány, again, he will say what he will say with a title "The Autumn of 2018. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the room.]]
u2018-09-17-21	I would ask the President not to start until the order comes, because he does refer to the dignity of this House, if he will...
u2018-09-17-22	I didn't refer to the dignity of this House when he first spoke... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-23	Now, be nice.
u2018-09-17-24	... but no doubt I will comply with your request, the clock will be restored when you so...
u2018-09-17-25	Your generosity knows no bounds.
u2018-09-17-26	Thank you very much, that is also a compliment to the President.
u2018-09-17-27	We see you as the true embodiment of civic culture and morality. Then I might as well ask you, although I didn't intend to ask you...
u2018-09-17-28	You can't even ask me. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-29	...but from the representatives across the street, whether you know Emma Allen. I don't know if they know who he is. I should know him. He is one of the world's greatest transformer artists and transformer artists. Check it out sometime. 'Cause I see that they're pretty much related, apparently politicians, but they're not. They are masking themselves and their own opinions from one to the other in a way that, by the way, if they were to be performed on another stage, they would be appreciated. The Prime Minister is asking for a response to the charge of treason. It's a matter of honor. When we are discussing whether or not we should allow our debate to report treason with you, we are talking about a fundamental matter of honor. And I didn't refer to this certain transformative artist for nothing. Perhaps, if their memory is short, in 2003, today's Prime Minister, the opposition party leader, not only supported it, but initiated the resolution condemning the Hungarian government at the Christian Democratic International meeting. When asked in this House - not accused, just asked - what do you think this is not treason, what did the opposition leader say? He said that every human rights issue is an international matter, every conflicting thought is from 20 years ago, which he still remembers well - which means he has since forgotten. Not to be offended, not to be considered a traitor to the country who asks the question, to be honest, who is right then. To the then 2003 opposition leader who said and initiated an international institution against Hungary, or now to the one who says yes, is this ultimately treason? Something's not right here. Don't tell me this is a consistent attitude. Do not say that it is a consistent attitude when your European programme says that the European Union cannot hesitate when it comes to the violation of the values of the Union, whether it be human, civil or minority rights; let us establish procedures so that no one can hide behind the principle of non-interference in such a case. That's what you're demanding. I've been quoting from their program. This is what the European Parliament is doing now, giving an opinion on you in accordance with the demand. Then why insult me? And as for the last statement that we hate you more than we love our country, this is an old political bonmo, I must say that we do not. To be honest, we're not friends with you, it's not a question of love and hate. We despise what you do, that's the thing. There's no emotion in this, we don't agree with it. We deeply disagree with him. As I recall, you are accusing us of our country's hatred. Then there's no need to be offended by the faction leader Harrach that I'm saying there's a split of consciousness here. If I say anything other than you, I represent something other than the right to vote across the border, I think different about media freedom, right to strike, then I'm a traitor? Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case. The thing is, we have fundamentally different ideas about Europe. Yes, we want a strong Europe; you want a loose Europe. But why are they offended? Isn't this argument normal? Isn't it normal to argue about common border protection? No one wants to take away the possibility and right of Hungarian border protection. The proposal presented is to help those who cannot do it. Well, I think we should read the proposals we put forward, because otherwise, it's just that while you're betraying us, you're still upset about how passionate this Gyurcsány is. Of course it's passionate, because I love my country passionately, and you... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[14.40]]
u2018-09-17-30	I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, State Secretary.
u2018-09-17-31	Dear House, Did you understand what the speaker in front of me said? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't think you can understand it with that ability!]] Because it was extremely difficult, there was only one thing to find out that a very serious pro-immigration politician spoke here, i.e. who takes the matter very seriously to confirm his pro-immigration position every day, whether in the National Assembly or during the protest yesterday or in any community scene. Of course, Ferenc Gyurcsány did not say anything new, and the title of his speech - Autumn 2018 - was thus defined, but he could have also talked about what was in the winter of 2004, let's say, on December 5, when he was the Prime Minister, what an instigating speech he gave, here, 13 Hungarians from across the 13 borders in Parliament. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] before the group. He could have talked about what happened in the fall of 2006. Just 12 years ago, 12 years ago, the autumn speech appeared, where the then prime minister admitted that the country report had been falsified, precisely so that they could win the 2006 elections. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not like that, it's not like that!]] They lied night, day, morning, night, noon, and he almost died, even told people that. Then, a month later, when people were rightly outraged at this speech and expressed it, Kossuth Square was blocked from the Hungarian people, the square in front of the Hungarian Parliament by means of a fence. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Because your allies have turned it into a cesspool!]] However, when the fence was besieged by others, the Hungarian fence was also attacked in September 2015, also in the autumn, and he said that the peaceful protesters were attacked by the Hungarian police. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because you wanted to use sharps!]] We have seen these pictures, by the way, because it was just the third anniversary of this. So we don't really see what Ferenc Gyurcsány wants, what he wanted to say today, why he spoke twice. For the second time today, you have said your position firmly [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is no longer our problem, it is indeed the problem of the education system: there are text understanding problems.]] stands for the European Union's bureaucrats, who want to take rights away from Hungary. The latest announcement in the European Union is that Hungarian border surveillance should be taken out of the hands of Hungarians, because we Hungarians were able to stop illegal immigrants at the borders of Europe and Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true, Mr. President.]] We heard this text already in 2015, when Hungary was flooded by more than 400 thousand illegal immigrants, and then we had to make decisions that led to a legal, technical border closure, where the Hungarian police and the Hungarian soldiers were fair and we were able to stop it, and we proved that migration could be stopped on land. Later, of course, Italy has also proved that it is possible to stop, not only on land but also on the seas, the plague from Africa, Asia, which is the result of migration and its illegal version. That's the problem, that's the problem with us. Therefore, there are no... - when Ferenc Gyurcsány talks about the absence of migrants in Hungary, I do not know if someone has said something about a number that some ten people are coming to Hungary, it is already the result. After all, the route where the border was closed does not need to be chosen anymore, because it is extremely risky, which is why it shifted first towards Italy, for example, and now that the Italians are closed to Spain. I think that Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech was already about the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019. He made his position clear here, and he also made it clear that he intended to be the leader of the entire opposition in May 2019. He made it clear that he has a pro-immigration policy, and it is time for everyone to wake up, because on the other hand, the Hungarians have expressed it several times, either in the referendum or in the consultation. [[Gergely Arató: They didn't even go to the referendum.]] or even five months ago in the parliamentary elections, that they would not ask for this policy, but would support the Hungarian government's anti-immigration policy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-32	It seems to me that Congresswoman Vadai has been a little tired for the last hour. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We should have taken that voice away from the Secretary of State.]] I meant tiredness of discipline, not of yelling, because that's what I learned from the signs of fatigue. It is up to Congressman Bence Tordai, on behalf of the Dialogue, on the subject of current affairs.
u2018-09-17-33	[[The home care work! Let's move so they can make their move, he's wearing a white T-shirt.]] Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Today we need to talk not only about the Sargentini report on the violations of the rights committed by Fidesz against the Hungarian people, but also about home care for 45,000 families. Today, in every speech in the Dialogue, we discuss the untenable situation of home caregivers of their permanently ill or disabled loved ones. While home care, in order not to mention better countries, is recognised as an employment relationship in Romania, it is rewarded with a salary of 130 thousand forints, while in Hungary these families are humiliated with a maximum net of 53 thousand forints. But the matter of home care isn't just about the people involved, it's about all of us. It is also a matter for all of us because we are compassionate and solidarity with home care providers, but it is also a matter for all of us because the moral quality of a government, a political system, is shown by the way it treats the most vulnerable members of the community, the way it takes care of them, and in this case it does not take care of them. And it shows exactly how morally vile the Fidesz government, the Orbán system, is. Not only do you leave the masses of our countrymen on the side of the road, but you also kick them into the ditch. They do not help those in need, and they do not let those who are able to do so unfold. In the Orbán system, the benefits of development and economic growth reach the top 1 percent, and 99 percent do not or hardly benefit from the increase in the total national product. You haven't raised the family allowance since 2010, you haven't raised the minimum pension, you haven't raised the wages of 100,000 civil servants, but you have raised the taxes of small and medium-sized earners by abolishing the tax credit. And then who has the Orbán government favored in the last eight years? In practice, large companies, which are 9 instead of 19 per cent tax, pay an average of 5 per cent tax, together with tax incentives. The Orbán government also favours banks, which last year generated a record profit of 700 billion for their owners. This is what they took out of the pockets of Hungarian people and businesses. The Orbán government favours offshore companies, whose 30 percent tax has already been abolished by the Fidesz majority in 2011. The Orbán government favours the fidesz oligarchs, of which only Viktor Orbán's favourite stróman, Lőrinc Mészáros, is rich in hundreds of billions of our money each year. In the Orbán system, society is split in two, the Fidesz and Fidesz billionaires, Viktor Orbán and his family are rich, while most Hungarians do not have any savings. Hundreds of thousands are in poverty, 2.5 million people live in housing poverty, 120,000 families are terrified of eviction, 42 percent of families with children have income below the minimum living age, half of pensioners are dependent on less than 100,000 forints of pensions. But most workers don't take home more than 150,000 forints a month. In the year of the families, in 2018, 1.2 million children are not guaranteed a social minimum, and 300,000 of them will start the school year without school supplies. The price of the watch flashed by the Prime Minister's daughter is HUF 12 million, equivalent to the 13 years of income of a mother who raised her child alone. That is why the Dialogue says that radical transformation is needed, instead of the interests of the top 1 percent, 99 percent should finally be represented. The basic income should be introduced, with which three quarters of our fellow citizens agree, and the most serious social and human crises, the social crisis, the housing crisis, the health crisis, the crisis in education, the crisis in culture, the income crisis should finally be addressed. Send a message to the Fidesz benches: public funds should not be stolen, but given to people; now, for example, give to home nurses, support the motion of the Dialogue, the MSZP and the other opposition parties, which proposes to transfer these HUF 6-8 billion into the budget. [[14.50]] To give home care workers this increase, because most of society agrees with their needs. However, Fidesz of ten years ago agrees, and obviously Mátrai, who is sitting here right now, and ten years ago, you initiated the same initiative to acknowledge home care as a work. I am very curious whether my fellow members of the Government will find humanity within themselves and whether they will find good intentions in government policy. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-17-34	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If there was a government that would face all financial or political power, precisely because those who were in a difficult situation, or because they made little money, or because many, along with the large family, committed poverty before 2010 or because the banks wanted to profit from it, then this was the Fidesz-KDNP government. How many times have we heard from your benches that if the government so radically raises the minimum wage, then what a blow it will be for Hungarian companies! And yes, we have radically raised the minimum wage, because we have raised it from 73 thousand forints to 138 thousand forints, and we have doubled the skilled minimum wage. We have done this by saying that this is a mistake, because for the Hungarian economy, this will be a huge step backwards, and the crowds of companies will fall. They didn't fall for it, but the multinationals finally started paying the Hungarian workforce properly, and they finally started paying regular wages. This brought with it the increase in other wages, so we can say that Hungarians now earn more than they earned on average by more than 51 percent in 2010; average wages in Hungary have increased by 1.5 times. It was part of the first wage increase we started with teachers, then we continued with nurses, doctors, law enforcement workers, district officials, cultural institutions, and I could continue. However, we have introduced family-type taxation, which leaves an increasing share of the income with families. If you look at the monthly amount of money that stays with families every year and is not deducted as a tax, you will see that this amount will rise from the neighborhood of HUF 20,000 to more than HUF 25,000 per month, precisely because more and more people are able to use it and receive tax benefits after an increasing salary. And when it came to conflicting with banks about foreign exchange loans, Hungary did, and introduced a price barrier, introduced end-of-payment options against which the banks protested, despite which the Hungarian government said that it would adopt these laws and protect the homes and homes of Hungarian people. You remember these debates. The opposition rarely supported the government's position in these cases. In this regard, let me quote the Eurostat statement; you love statistics in Brussels. This is due to the fact that a positive process started after 2010 and the number of people with a debt repayment or housing deficit decreased to 1 million 89 thousand according to Eurostat validated figures. So much less people have social problems, housing problems. Or thanks to the reduction of the rent, which you also opposed, that the entire Hungarian public service system will fall into place, but in fact you only defended the luxury profit of foreign-owned companies from the opposition lines, well, the problem of the proper heating of the apartment is already 766 thousand fewer Hungarian households. Looking at the fact that for financial reasons someone doesn't have a car, well, there are nearly 600,000 fewer people who can't afford to have a car. How many people can go on a holiday of at least one week a year: I also say - to quote data validated by Eurostat - that is no longer a problem for nearly 2 million people, and 2 million more people can go on vacation a year for a week. So these scissors will not open, honourable Member, but they will close. I mean, if you look at the difference between the highest and the lowest of the incomes, you're talking about less... you'd be honored to listen to me. Well, he said that the difference is increasing and there is a marked difference between the rich and the poor in Hungary, but if he also looks at the European statements that you are very fond of, he sees that the EU average is 5.2 times the income gap and the Hungarian is 4.3. The income difference between earners is smaller in Hungary. I could also say that more than 750,000 people can work, and I can give you countless social examples. The reason I'm less concerned with the care fee is because you've also submitted an interpellation on this. However, I would like to say that, in contrast to what had been happening for years before 2010, the amount of the care fee has not increased by a penny, we have tried to provide more and more resources for this, so we have also introduced a new category, the priority care fee. So the person who received an increased care fee in 2010 was HUF 37 050, and now receives HUF 58 680, which is 63 percent higher. Indeed, less than we would like to give them, so you have read in the news how many organizations we have discussed further increases over the summer, and in the interpellation response I will discuss what we will probably get in these. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-36	Now comes the representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Hajnalka Juhász:. Hungary helps, a credible response to stop illegal migration. Congresswoman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the National Confession of our Fundamental Law states, we are proud that our King Saint Stephen laid the Hungarian state on solid foundations a thousand years ago and made our country part of Christian Europe. Istova has been guaranteeing religious freedom for 450 years, since the 1568 Congress in Torda. As our Fundamental Law states, we value Christendom's role as a national preserver and the different religious traditions of our country. The risk of illegal migration to Europe was first recognised by the Hungarian government, and it was consistent, from the outset, to defend the borders of the country and to protect the Christian culture of Europe. To address the migratory pressure on Europe, the European Parliament has raised only proposals, such as the compulsory resettlement quota, which would be unacceptable to the Hungarian government and would be devastating to the Christian culture in Europe. The Government of Hungary intends to address migration challenges in a different way. Government-supported local aid policy means bringing help there, not bringing trouble here. This is the most credible response that can now be given in Europe to tackle illegal migration. For the first time in the world and so far, as a single government, we have raised the issue of helping persecuted Christians to the level of government, thus further strengthening the protection and assistance of Christian communities in crisis regions. The Hungarian government established Hungary Helps, Hungary, in 2017. The aim of the programme is to present Hungary's international humanitarian aid, visibility of its support and development policy and to present it with a uniform image. In line with the size of Hungary's population and its economic strength, it is actively involved in the management of the migration crisis within the framework of the programme. The basic humanitarian objective would allow people living in world crisis regions, i.e. those living in migration source zones, to stay in place. It aims to reduce world poverty and global inequalities, paying particular attention to persecuted Christian communities. An important tool to address the migration crisis is development cooperation programmes through which the international community can create living conditions in the issuing countries so that millions of people do not have to leave their countries. In 2016, the Hungarian Parliament expressed its condemnation of Christian persecution and genocide in the Middle East and Africa in a resolution. It is unacceptable that people lose their lives because they remain faithful to their faith or disagree with the ideology of a terrorist organization. The atrocities committed by the Islamic State itself and by other terrorist organisations and certain militias constitute genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. For example, thanks to the help programme of Hungary Helps,. Hungary supported the construction of the Virgin Mary primary school in Erbíl, Iraq. To ensure the education of Christian children living there and fleeing from Islamist attacks, it was also necessary to build a school building. [[15.00]] In 2016, the collection of the Hungarian Catholic Church, which was HUF 80 million, was completed by the Hungarian state with HUF 120 million, so that the construction of the school could begin in Erbíl. In 2017, the school started operating. The medical supplies of St. Joseph's Hospital in the city were completely exhausted by May 2017. The provision of the six-month supply of medicinal products at the time, which was HUF 150 million, was signed by Minister Zoltán Balog and Chald Catholic Archbishop Bashar Matti Warda in 2017, thus contributing to the preservation of the Iraqi Christian culture. Despite all international attacks and extortion, protecting Christian culture is our legacy and obligation in St. Stephen. This is the one true path that our ancestors have given us, this is our legacy that we must protect. As Mother Teresa said, we feel that what we do is only a drop in the sea, but without that drop, the sea would be shallower. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-38	In response, Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you very much for your question, with which you have drawn attention to a very important problem and project. I would like to give you a brief summary of the humanitarian principle that the Hungarian Government and Hungary have, unfortunately, almost uniquely taken over. That principle sounds like you need to bring help there, not trouble. There are three objectives around this principle. One: we have a humanitarian objective, which looks like to ensure that people living in world crisis regions remain locally and return home, and in this respect we have a special attention to persecuted Christian communities. We also have a foreign policy goal, which can be summarised as an alternative to, and we are trying to draw the international community's attention to, local assistance rather than primarily illegal migration to Europe and its support policy. And our third objective is identity-related. Here, I think, the most important and the most obvious is the Fundamental Law, the duty to protect Christian culture. On this basis, support for Christian culture should also be a priority for the Western Christian world in many countries and crisis regions of the world. Right now, the Christian community is the most persecuted religious community in the world. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In fact, this principle and the three objectives that have been taken out of it can be determined against something. At the moment, the international humanitarian aid policy is not bilateral, but multilateral. This means that the developed world countries are pouring millions of dollars into international aid projects, international consortia, the effectiveness and focus of which is highly doubtful, to say the least. The Government of Hungary believes that this type of aid policy should be suspended and that the international community should turn into a bilateral, genuine, effective and effective development policy. That's what we're trying to support with the program we started. We think that these development policy and aid policy projects run a dead end because they lack personal contact, because they speak of nothing but the maintenance and legitimacy of the international institutional system that has been established over the decades, the strengthening of the institutional system itself. So development projects, humanitarian aid projects, are not primarily for the people they are for, but for those who are supposed to do so. This is a practice that we consider to be abolished, and the Government of Hungary wants to be a programmer and programmer in this respect. The support to persecuted Christian communities has so far affected 35,000 people, 8700 families have been able to return or stay in place through such bilateral channels without the use of international partners. Assistance is focused primarily on the Middle East and sub-Saharan region, and also on crisis regions where other projects do not reach. I personally had the pleasure of making sure of this, both in Iraq and Nigeria, where we built a school, where we restored housing, where we financed educational and humanitarian projects, and even launched energy modernisation projects. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to our scholarship programme for young persecuted Christians, which is exemplary in the world. We believe that this is an extremely important, highly important and highly successful project from a national strategic point of view, which, with close attention to international processes, raises the interest of more and more governments and more potential allies. As a result, the Hungarian Government has decided to raise this project and, from the next period onwards, to deal with this issue within the Prime Minister's Office, and we hope that we can step up our efforts in this regard. In this, I would ask for your support and the support of the entire Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-40	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-17-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the elections, Viktor Orbán talked about planning to become Prime Minister by 2030 and making Hungary one of the five most livable states in the Union by then. It is a loud statement, but we already know that such statements are of little value. The political elite after the change of regime promised the Hungarian people that we would soon live on a standard of living such as brother-in-laws. However, nothing has become of this, and even our breakage continues to grow. Besides, if the Prime Minister plans until 2030, it is not enough to say that we will continue. At least now, the government should present its 2030 plan, assessing the challenges of today's Hungary's greatest social, economic and environmental policy challenges, taking into account global challenges and explaining the responses and solutions that the government is planning to address. But not until 2030, even for the next four years, the government doesn't have such a plan. This means that the government continues to govern ad hocally, mostly serving multinational capital. Dear House, A country that is slowly being abandoned by half a million people is not sustainable, and a whole generation is slowly missing from the country. But this isn't just about young people, from nurses to bus drivers to waiters all the way out of the country. And it's not just some global process that's independent of us. The government's economic policy has a huge role to play in this. Fidesz's economic policy is based on large foreign companies, so it consciously kept domestic wages very low for many years, and now they wonder that there is a shortage of labour in every sector of the economy because people are leaving. There's nothing to be surprised about. This is the result of a failed, short-sighted economic policy. This economic policy has not only resulted in people earning a living abroad, but also in a huge dependence on foreign capital, which is compounded by the fact that the performance of industry is essentially dependent on the automotive industry, the production of vehicles. Hungarian economic growth is unstable. An economic crisis can put Hungary, the Hungarian people, in a serious situation, especially when a third of Hungarian households live below the minimum living standards. There is no semi-effective country, and there cannot be an effective policy where only a few of the results will benefit. It is so difficult to become the most livable Member State in the Union that 4 out of the 7 Hungarian regions are among the poorest 20 regions in the Union. If society continues to break up, every Hungarian citizen will lose in the long run. [[15.10]] Hungary can only succeed if we do not break down, but build and strengthen social cohesion. The era of smart revolution has begun, and we have reached the age of digitalization and networks. The fourth industrial revolution is about physical machines and objects being connected to an information network, the real economy being integrated into a single vast intelligent information system. It's a huge challenge for education. Instead of investing in our education system, the government continues to destroy education. Another major challenge is the continuing deterioration of the state of health of the Hungarian society. A society that is deteriorating in its health and education will not be able to catch up and produce high added value. And not only because of the government's unsustainable social and economic policies, we have no chance of being among the five most livable countries in the Union by 2030, but also because there is no environmental policy for the government, it has destroyed its institutional system. The government is not aware that natural resources, the preservation of biodiversity are the basis for economic development and that a healthy environment is a prerequisite for people's health. The integration of environmental policy into social and economic policy is a fundamental issue, without which sustainable development, sustainability cannot be talked about and a viable country. It is time to face the fact that Hungary is on an unsustainable path. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-09-17-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is not for the first time that we are faced with the fact in this Parliament that the LMP, and perhaps it can be said that most of the opposition is most disturbed by the facts, as if they were not living in Hungary today, as if they were not reading a newspaper, or actually not talking to people, and they did not know that the country has since 2010 - when you, when you do not want me to use the word "co-workers," your fellow members or fellow Members, who have political ideas, were ruling, let us say, between 2002 and 2010. Here there were facts from the mouth of the congresswoman, which are not facts, and we could even quote the sentences that she said; we could put them in quotes because they have nothing to do with any of the sentences, none of the ideas expressed, are real. In the last few months, statements have been made more than once that, for example, the number of foreign workers, non-immigrants and foreign workers has fallen over the last few months, more people have come back to work in Hungary than they have tried themselves in a foreign workplace, so the trend and trend have turned around. The Hungarian economy is not building on multinational companies, the Hungarian government - unlike you, in particular, the period of socialist-liberal government - but we are putting a great deal of emphasis on supporting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, precisely so that companies with most employees can keep their employees and even develop. Among other things, in order to support this and to recognise the great need to introduce new techniques, to change technology, to innovate, the ministry of which I am now answering your question, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, which may well be said to have been the first pioneering development in Europe, focusing on the future: technology change, the introduction of new technologies, the importance of innovation at all. Perhaps it can be said that Europe is a little behind in relation to America and the Far East and that in order to be competitive, these steps must be taken. But what were you wrong about? Let's just compare it, and I've heard the numbers I'm about to bring up many times. What is wrong with you, and what is wrong with opposition representatives who claim anything from the current government, today's civilian government, in the area of wage increases and employment? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Then why not ask the former governing parties, the socialists and the liberals closest to you about what they did between 2002 and 2010? There have been years when wages have fallen in real terms during this period. Since 2010, since the Hungarian economy had to be pulled out of the pit due to the failed economic policy of social governance, real wages have increased by nearly 40 percent since 2010, real wages have increased by nearly 40 percent in Hungary, with the rise in real wages, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage nearly doubled, which has allowed the increase in real wages of nearly 40 percent in other wage categories to be achieved. And in the field of employment, as if he hadn't listened to the Prime Minister's speech. There are nearly 800,000 more people working in Hungary today than in 2010. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: 500,000 abroad!]] Our fellow Member, who used to push the chariot of the party that caused the economic crisis in Hungary, among other things, the stagnation of wages and the reduction of employment, said that there were 500,000 people abroad. There aren't so many, Congressman, you've got the numbers wrong, you've got the number five and the number three wrong, you've got a lot of other numbers mixed up. There are not nearly as many people out of Hungary abroad. However, it should be said, and it would be good to note that, once, they would notice and acknowledge that, for example, unemployment has fallen from almost 12 percent to less than 4 percent in Hungary today, from 12 percent in 2010 to less than 4 percent. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is the third lowest level in the European Union. These are the results that you do not acknowledge. [[The president's ringing again.]] and which this government has achieved together with Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What could be more up-to-date on a day where the Prime Minister, in accordance with his obligations arising from our constitutional traditions, was pleased to tell us what important political issues would be in Hungary during the next period and what happened during the summer holiday. Although I might add, the expression "our constitutional traditions" from the mouth of Viktor Orbán is slightly smiling, perhaps making many people cry. We have learned from Viktor Orbán that in the ninth year of the new economic mechanism, everything is sniffy-duper in this country, everyone is happy, everyone has a job, lives well, and everything is okay, the work-based economy is raging, and, as you said, 4.5 million Hungarians are working, but the Prime Minister forgot to add to which country. And although in his rejoinder, he explained how he stood up and defended the otherwise cross-border worker, now more to the million than to the half-million of our compatriots, this voice is particularly cynical and offensive for these people to the point where he took and today takes the equal voting right from these hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens thanks to the Fidesz faction, so that as full citizens, they can intervene in the decision of the future of their country. We have learned very important things about higher education, for example. I would also like to draw your attention here to the fact that the Prime Minister accidentally compared this year's figures to last year, or perhaps not by accident, because the few thousand people's growth he boasted about here is a bit of a downside to the fact that, compared to 2010, the enroller is nearly 29 thousand fewer in higher education institutions this year. And we learned, thanks to God, that about 20,000 laptops were distributed by the government in high school. I think that everyone in this room would have been much happier, and more than that, if the Prime Minister had told us more about how 4-5 thousand teachers instead of laptops end up in schools and how they can teach our children with honor. Then he turned to European politics, where he believes that background powers want to weaken the European Union nation states. [[15.20]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the conspirators really want to weaken Europe, but the real conspiracy is not directed from Brussels, but from Moscow, and the main representative of the conspirators is Viktor Orbán and his far-right party. The European Union, my fellow Members, can still be the world's leading military and economic power if it joins forces and is able to control its future. The Brexit is trying to stop this process, smash it and dissipate it from the west, from the east Viktor Orbán and Kaczyński, from the south the new Italian star. We very much hope that Europe will wake up and see that this cannot continue. The Prime Minister said that the biggest problem with the EU is that it would allow legal migration. I did not know that Brussels wanted to force another bond programme on our country, and that it wanted to force tens of thousands more uncontrolled on Europe and Hungary. The European Parliament, representing the peoples of Europe, said by a two-thirds vote, that so far and no longer, that it was enough, because for years it had been very effective in deceiving, deceiving and lying to Viktor Orbán's western brothers and sisters and Western European politicians based on previous governments, communists, various lies, and covering up what he was really doing in Hungary. But they have now realised that Viktor Orbán has not created a Christian democracy, but a Kleptocracy, i.e. a theft-based government in Hungary. And I would ask you quietly what you expected in this vote, after the Prime Minister regularly played it in the last few years, saying something to the EU leaders' eyes on Tuesday, and then on Friday in the Kossuth radio retreats, he said the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has learned its lesson after World War II: there is a border that a decent politician and a decent government cannot cross. You have crossed this and your fellow European parties [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Your own fellow Christian Democrats have slammed into your hands to stand down. [[The president's ringing again.]] I'd like to ask you to become Christian Democrats, and you won't end up in a dump in history. Thank you for listening.
u2018-09-17-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To tell you the truth, it's a little difficult to sort out what Congressman said, and it's affected so many subjects. As far as education is concerned, we are spending more than 600 billion on education today compared to your governance, and the wages of teachers have increased by 50 percent. And as for the state of the economy and jobs: unemployment has fallen from 12 to 4 percent in Hungary. But he spoke about constitutionality, as I understand it, democracy and European affairs, and in this sense he also reacted to what the Prime Minister said. Maybe he also hinted at who crossed the line. Speaking of crossing borders, their relationship with democracy tells us a lot that when the eye-blowing Gyurcsány whistled in the last few days, they jumped yesterday to show it together. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] They were basking on a stage with him, who shot at the peaceful crowd, surrounded Parliament with a cordon, while international concerns did not have a word for it. You guys were on stage protesting with this eyeball. In other words, when the socialists begin to defend democracy, it will sooner or later be a healing injury after eight days. That's what we saw in 2006. But that is not the only point, because there is an idea in Hungarian public life, and that is that the left from time to time is attacking his own country. And the reason that this idea holds itself so stubbornly is because from time to time you will prove that this is the case, last week, when the Sargentini report was voted on. This report was voted on by people from the left who, by the way, took an oath to protect Hungarian interests in the EU institutions, in the European Parliament. Instead, they voted in favour of a report attacking Hungary. This is not the first time you have voted in favour of such a shameful report, in the case of the Tavares report, you have subsequently spoken about the fact that you have put it in the pen. But that's what happened with the Sargentini report, which is nothing more than an ideological concept indictment. That's why we probably can't find any left-wing representatives who would have read the 108-page material that the government had compiled and refuted any nonsense. Because you didn't care what the facts were, because they don't matter to you. Let me ask you some simple questions. How could you vote in favour of a report that says there is no strike in Hungary? How could you vote in favour of a report saying that paramilitary guards marched on Hungary while they were at the time of your government? How could you vote for a report that says there are no public declarations of assets in Hungary? How could you vote for such a dilettious piece of paper with as many lies as maggots in a good summer's apple? Probably because you're only interested in a lack of quality revenge, revenge because you've run into a large jacket in three elections. But when they do, you need to know that they're not attacking the government, they're attacking the entire country. And if we look around Europe, we don't see much of a squad like yours. But the fact is that they cannot attack their own country so many times that they do not strengthen the community of those who think they should stand up for Hungary. If we subtract orbital lies and closed points from the Sargentini report, only ideological questions that have nothing to do with the rule of law will remain. And that's where we come to the essential point, our policy, yours and ours, because there are worlds apart. [[Dr. László Varga: That's right!]] You want an open society, we want a Europe of nation states; you want to open borders, we want to protect them. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] ; You would spend more on migration, we would like to spend this money on Hungarian families. And that also means that Hungary is our first, and for you, how they can adapt to foreign expectations in Brussels. With their scandalous attitude, however, they did do me a favor: a few months before the European elections, all Hungarians can clearly see who they can count on to protect the country and who they can't count on at all. At the debate in Strasbourg, István Ujhelyi said that someone had taken the coke from you. Nobody took the coke, you don't wear it at all. And after last week's events, we understand why. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-48	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ádám Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a speech before the agenda:. How many politely knocking Ahmads are currently in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. Today, there has been a great deal of talk about the country's security, sovereignty and the fight against immigration, as one of its main themes has been about it almost every day in Parliament for two years. In the next ten minutes - including the answer, of course, to ten minutes - I shall attempt to have a fact-based debate or a question-answer. I don't have an illusion, but for my part, I'd like to draw attention to some important things. Your propaganda for two years has been about Fidesz-KDNP being a kind of XXI. He protects Hungary and Europe all by himself as János Hunyadi of the century. They're saying no less than that. On the other hand, there is a debate between Fidesz and Jobbik on this issue in 2016, which is not about us supporting illegal immigration in particular, but about how it should look like in the quality and legal system of action against it. You remember we said he wasn't poor, he wasn't rich. You said that they are not poor at all, but rich people can come through settlement bonds. That's what the debate was about. Today, two years have proved that we were right about both. Let's get on with it. The first is that the poor migrant is entitled to a certain status of protection through the Geneva Convention, and they are the ones that Viktor Orbán claimed that there is a part of refugees and immigrants who politely stop at the border, knock on the door, cooperate with the authorities, and if the conditions are met, they will be given different protection and refugee status. Well, a polite knocker like this is Ahmad, who is now captured in Austria and has been prosecuted by the Hungarian authorities for rape. [[15.30]] In contrast to this man, our fellow Member, István Happy, quite rightly, freaked out or formed an opinion, namely that particular hormone treatment with medication, chemical castration, otherwise known as. My question is only in terms of quality, whether my dear fellow Member knows how many times he voted off this proposal when Jobbik submitted it years ago. [[György Szilágyi: Definitely!]] I'll help you. Several times. This also shows the essence of the debate between us that communication and action are different. But let's skip to the second part. These were the poor migrants. We told him not to come rich, because they could carry potential risks. We don't know for sure, but in the case of a man from a third country, especially if he comes from the other side of the globe, there's no secret service that can rule out 100% that he won't pose a security risk. These were the bondsmen. In recent days, the news has exploded that persons linked to the head of Russian intelligence, persons linked to various Russian organised criminal circles, have indeed come to a settlement policy, and the Hungarian authorities are now in charge. Mr State Secretary, today we talked about this in the National Security Committee, and you may agree with me that, whether the counterintelligence or other Hungarian authorities have a duty for the future for these persons, and I will also propose, if appropriate, that we review the safety risk analysis of these bondholders. However, there have been a number of cases that have triggered the political debate - and here the debate is a rather subtle term. This includes the Pharaon case, Zaid Naffa and many others who have reached the highest level of government. So on both fronts, whether we buy the poor or the rich, it can be said that you didn't tell the truth when you said that we would always protect the country and protect it from everyone, no one here who, if any, would pose an economic or political risk either to any member of our citizens or at national level. Can you tell us how many times it has been voted down, since border protection has been mentioned so severely today, how many times have Jobbik's proposal to re-establish independent border protection and border guards in Hungary? A lot. Let us not forget that you and the socialists jointly abolished the independent Hungarian border guard in 2008. This is now an acute problem that we are once again putting on and asking you to support this proposal. The point is: I think that Hungarian security cannot be the scene of party political battles; Hungarian security is the most effective if it is based on consensus. We seek consensus. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Inside the Party, too!]] But instead of propaganda, let's be honest with each other. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-09-17-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The fact that they are constantly proposing independent border protection is strongly involved in disdaining and taking away the efforts of the police and the military over the last few months and years. [[Adam Mirkóczki: No! Lajos Rig: This is not what police and defence are for!]] This is unacceptable. I feel a little hopeless on the part of Jobbik that he is trying to be a part of a party that is concerned about immigration. That's completely uncredited. Wasn't it you who didn't vote for the constitutional amendment after the clear referendum? [[Adam Mirkóczki: I just told you why!]] Your president didn't say that. [[György Szilágyi, spelled "Le-te-le-pe-dé-si bond"! I'm telling you slowly to understand.]] That the border lock is a failure? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Didn't your ex-president say that you can think about taking in one or two thousand immigrants? [[A statement from Jobbik's benches: He didn't say that, it's a lie! Adam Mirkóczki: He did not say that!]] If it had been up to you and the people you were involved with in the election campaign, there could have been hundreds of rapists in Hungary right now. [[György Szilágyi: Settlement policy!]] But to say one thing, in the last few days, they have not tried to protect Hungary from the pressure that the Sargentini report means. I'm bringing this here because of this report. [[Adam Mirkóczki: It's not about that!]] If you're talking nonsense, you're telling lies. [[György Szilágyi to Dr. Károly Kontra: Why doesn't the Secretary of State answer? Ádám Mirkóczki: I wanted a professional answer!]] We take down pending cases and ideological accusations, then it has no other significance but to force us to change course in the case of immigration. And the Jobbik in this case - you couldn't assume that I wouldn't bring it up now - and Jobbik in this case joined the left choir. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We didn't stop!]] They could have gone against the Sargentini charge, but they didn't. A few minutes ago, their group leader claimed that in this report there were unsuitable and unfair things, but they did not take action against it. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches, you're lying! Ádám Mirkóczki: If you were wearing a polygraph, the index is... Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't point.]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me to quote three positions, not so long ago. The first position: Hungarian MEPs who voted in favour of the report condemning Hungary have committed treason. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We did not vote for it!]] The party therefore calls for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to listen to the Members in question. Second position: The report is a dog comedy where everyone has played their part, including the European Left and their domestic henchmen [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This came to you like bread.]] a permanent record of the fear of democracy. Which, by the way, you can always play. The third position: the Hungarian left attacked Hungary in colluding with the international left. He did everything he could to make Hungary look bad. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Where is the contradiction?]] That's how they want to get close to power. Three positions. These three positions are Jobbik's position. That's the thing. Not now! Well, it's not from now, it's from the time the Tavares report was adopted. Which was a report of as much lies as the Sargentini paper we have now. And he had the same goal. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We didn't support him now!]] And what's changed since then? [[Adam Mirkóczki: Nothing! Z. Carpathian Daniel: You certainly don't!]] The content of the Tavares and Sargentini reports is not much. What has changed is Jobbik, your party. A national party has become a group that has made a complete comparison with the left, which, by the way, has interpreted democracy with eye-shooting. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Complete comparison is different!]] If we use your words, then sneaking together, providing a constant record of fear for democracy, just to get close to power. Perhaps they would now put faith in the Brussels flags, provided they found the specimens that had been set on fire before the cameras. Typically, the President of Jobbik simply tried to deny the immigration aspects of the Sargentini report. [[György Szilágyi: Parrot!]] He said it wasn't even about that. [[György Szilágyi: What are you talking about?]] They're all lined up in the report. After all, there's no election jacket, there aren't so many disbanding right-wing basic organizations. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Just one question: did we support you?]] not as many exit members [[Adam Mirkóczki: Did we support him?]] There aren't enough internal scandals to convince Jobbik that [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves!]] I don't think it's worth getting together with liberal forces. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What are you so afraid of?]] whose support is limited [[Ádám Mirkóczki: I told you that honest speech will be an experiment!]] But if they had the chance, they'd destroy the country again. Right now, just like opening borders and creating an open society in Hungary. Thank you, we do not want any of this, and we believe that the Hungarian electorate is the same. [[Adam Mirkóczki: What was the question?]] You can see that from the election results this weekend. You lost the mayor's seat in one of those places. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You should be proud of your voters!]] What they used to call a good-looking citadel. Congratulations from here too, and we wish the elected mayor of Fidesz, Zoltán Szőke, good work. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Crying from the benches of Jobbik: Clown!]]
u2018-09-17-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Hende, vice-president of the Parliament, also applied for a pre-meeting address on the political message of the Sargentini report. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-09-17-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The so-called Sargentini report is no threat to our country. We can say this with absolute certainty because of the fact that the European Parliament has voted in a procedure in which there will be no sanctions. Even if the procedure could run through the field envisaged by our foreign and domestic opponents. The strongest guarantee of this statement is a thousand-year-old Polish-Hungarian friendship. In our history in our Polish brothers, we have never been disappointed, nor will we now. However, our country's bad intentions ran aground from the very beginning. The report was not properly adopted, in the correct interpretation. They voted on it, but the report failed. It failed because Article 354 of the Lisbon Treaty on the legal basis of the European Union and Article 178 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament clearly states that the two-thirds majority required for adoption should have been achieved by counting the votes remaining. This did not work out for Hungary's opponents, to say the least. It is fortunate that others in Europe can read and interpret legal rules. I welcome the same opinion of the Vice Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, Mr Strache, made publicly available, and I thank him in particular for asking Mrs Kneissl, the Austrian Foreign Minister, to present the concerns surrounding the vote to the competent body of the European Union. [[Agnes Kunhalmi's intervention.]] [[15.40]] In Der Spiegel's recent issue, Professor Alexander Thiele of Göttingen expressed his similar professional position. This cannot, of course, replace Hungary's legal action against the wrongly declared text. That is what I urge the government of our country to do. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The lessons of this case are very important. Lesson one: democracy is only where the law rules. [[Intercoms from the opposition, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: How the ceiling doesn't fall on you! The president's ringing the bell. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: It should be banned as a public danger!]] The European Parliament which breaks its own rules will also revive the last crumbs of its democratic legitimacy and moral authority. It condemns a Member State with objections to the rule of law by violating its rules of procedure. Second lesson: From now on, we must fight with double force for what is currently left to us in the common European cause. So we Hungarians must join forces to choose only representatives who are working for the good of Hungary in the next European Parliament. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's why we have to vote for DK!]] as opposed to some of our current MEPs. With the support of the Sargentini report, they have once again demonstrated that they are putting their party interests ahead of our country's interests. They didn't want to use it, they wanted to hurt me. I'm sure it won't be easy going down the street for a long time. What they did was a sin with a long shadow. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Experience is important. The céco around the Sargentini report showed us who lives in it, who Hungarians can expect. The picture is clear, it will be easy to decide. Go, Hungary! Go, Hungarians! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In addition to the legal aspects, let me talk about the content of the report and future options. The report that was tried to be pushed through last week in the European Parliament consists of several parts, including cases that have been closed for a long time, matters where dialogue is in progress, simple lies and ideological expectations, so if we take them off, then there will be points on immigration. Now, in this case, we do have a real, meaningful and sharp conflict with the European Commission, but not only with the European Commission, but also with the European Parliament, as it turns out. And that's why it's worth seeing what's going on, why they're trying to force us to change direction again, because we've found that if they use this type of meaning to increase pressure on us, there's always something they want to push down our throats. So what's in the tube? A lot of dangerous suggestions. That's what I want to talk to you about. If someone asked me what it was, I would definitely mention four things. 1. They want to create legal immigration routes. 2. The quota's back on the agenda. 3. They want to spend more on immigration at EU level. 4. If that weren't enough, they'd want to take the rights of border protection out of our hands. And if someone asks us how we make these statements, then feel free to look at the European Commission's summary and resolution published on 12 September, which is already addressed in a rough way: This material contains a new import quota. So much for taking it off the agenda or not. The European Commission's paper considers the introductions to be successful, proposes a permanent resettlement framework, and urges Parliament and the Council to agree on the final programme as soon as possible. The Commission also calls on Member States - really look at it - to cooperate with African countries, to set up pilot projects to start these programmes from 2018. But they will not stop here, because, as we have seen before, in the new seven-year EU budget, they would spend twice as much on migration as they used to, but not on border protection, but on what they call border management, which is by no means the same as border protection. And this is where we get to the proposal that has just been made public: they want the states at the external borders of the Union to give up border protection and to transfer the right to border protection to Brussels; not voluntarily, but in a binding way. The German Chancellor insisted on this in a speech. So they want to hand over the gate key to people who have only one purpose: to keep the gate open. And it doesn't matter what reason they take that view. For people who have easily condoned the fact that three million people have come to Europe in recent years, most of them illegally. So there are not enough terrorist attacks, there is no citizen's opposition, there are not enough failed and failed proposals in Brussels to make Brussels change in policy so far. Therefore, our most important task is to force a change of direction in places where possible, such as the European Parliament. If there were still a pro-immigration majority in the European Parliament after next spring, there would be serious consequences. That is another reason to put ourselves in the European election campaign with double force; we are ready for this fight for our part. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-56	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-09-17-57	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Félix Félix Farkas is a Roma minority speaker; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Péter Jakabik, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, independent. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Gergely Arató, DK; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz. Brenner Koloman, Jobbik, Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow.
u2018-09-17-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to decide on house rules. At last week's meeting of the House Committee, the factions agreed that, on this day of the Parliament's meeting, Imre Ritter, a German representative of nationality, should be able to speak on the matter of the President and the working of the National Government of the Hungarian Germans in a five-minute period of time before the decision was taken on the agenda. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/1461. can also be found on the website. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members present is required. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously accepted the departure from the house rule by 156 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our adopted decision, Imre Ritter's speech before the agenda will now take place, in five minutes' duration:. The commemoration of Ottó Heinek, president and worker of the National Government of Germans in Hungary. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, who describes the first sentences in his native language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.50]]
u2018-09-17-59	Danke sehr. Sehr geehrter Herr Ministerpräsident, Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Es ist mir eine traurige und schwere Pflicht Sie darüber zu informieren, dass Herr Ottó Heinek, der Vorsitzender der Ungarndeutschen, nach langer Krankheit am 20-sten August 2018. Seine trauernde Familie, Seine Freunde, Bekannten, die in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, die Ungarndeutschen und die Deutschen aus dem Vaterland nahmen von Ihm am 6-sten September 2018. in der Makovecz-Leichenhalle vom Farkasréti Friedhof einen endgültigen Abschied. Besonderer Dank geht an Herrn Staatspräsidenten János Áder, der mit seiner Anwesenheit die für die Ungarndeutschen und in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten leisteten beständige Tätigkeit von unserem Vorsitzender Otto Heinek bestätigt und anerkannt hat. Mr President, Honourable Parliament. It is a sad and difficult duty to inform you that President Ottó Heinek, President of the National Municipality of Germans in Hungary, died on 20 August 2018 after a long illness. His family, friends, acquaintances, ethnicities in Hungary, the Germans in Hungary and the motherland officially took a final farewell on 6 September 2018 at the Makovecz funeral home of the Farkasrét cemetery. I would like to thank President János Áder for the honour and recognition of President Ottó Heinek's persistent work for Germanism in Hungary and for the nationalities in Hungary. Heinek Ottó was born on February 6, 1960 in Mo-hács. He studied elementary school in Borjádon, his native village. In 1978, Pécs graduated from the German ethnic school of Lövey Klára High School. Following the completion of the military service, he graduated from the Pécs Teacher Training College in 1983 as a German and Hungarian teacher. From 1983 to 1990 he was a member of Neue Zeitung, the weekly newspaper of the Germans in Hungary, while he received a second degree in internal political journalism. After the change of regime, he was transferred to the Prime Minister's Office, where he worked as a government advisor at the National and Ethnic Minorities Office, and then was appointed Head of Department in the same year, and then Deputy Chairman of the Office in 1995. In 1999, he was elected president of the National Local Government of the Germans of Hungary, and he was confirmed and re-elected four times in his position. With amazing energy, sense of duty, skill, wisdom, and composure, he paved the way for the German community in our country. In addition to the numerous results, the German authorities and civil society organisations have been strengthened throughout the country, the educational and educational institutions have become independent and developed. During its leadership, the long-term strategy of the German national government was born, while relations with other nationalities in our country and with German minorities in other countries were strengthened. His work made a significant contribution to the historic success of having a German national representative in the Hungarian Parliament in 2018. In 1999 he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary's Cross of Officers and in 2004 the Grand Cross of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany. Inseparable is the nationalist, the professional and the man who has always been and will always be present to all of us. Allow me to conclude my memorial with a quote from Balzac, which reads in Hungarian: "You live twice: for the first time in reality, for the second time in memory. We will always remember it, please keep in mind President Otto Heinek. Dear Otto, rest in peace. Bitte erlauben Sie mir meine Gedenkrede mit einem Zitat von Balzac zu schließen:, Man lebt zweimal: das erste Mal in der Wirklichkeit, das zweite Mal in der Erinnerung. Wir werden Ihn nicht vergessen, bitte behalten Sie Herrn Vorsitzender Ottó Heinek auch in guter Erinnerung! Otto Lieber, ruhe in Frieden!
u2018-09-17-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Serkisian Szván Simon Armenian minority spokesperson has not yet taken over his mandate, so that the conditions for a mandate certificate do not exist, so the mandate will be issued at a later date. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2018-09-17-61	Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Krisztián Kecsmár, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, will be terminated with effect from 31 August 2018. Budapest, 20 August 2018 Sincerely, János Áder. Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. János Bóka as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 1 September 2018. Budapest, 20 August 2018 Sincerely, János Áder. Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, will be terminated with effect from 11 September 2018. Budapest, September 10, 2018 Sincerely, János Áder. Mr. László Fat, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Azbei Tristan as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 11 September 2018. Budapest, September 10, 2018 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2018-09-17-62	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Honourable Parliament! I declare that MEPs Béla Turi-Kovács, János Süli, Péter Cseresnyés, Miklós Simon, Tamás Herczeg and Zsolt Szabó have informed me that they have formed the parliamentary group of the small farmers. [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] According to the house rule, the formation of the group does not affect their membership of the faction. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the Parliament's autumn session in 2018, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, one representative and the first independent representative shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, one representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative applying for a speech shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. (No applicants.) I don't see an application, so now we're going to vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the autumn session. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the working order by 139 votes to 26, without abstentions. [[16.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that card calendars containing the Parliament's autumn 2018 working schedule can be taken over at the main desk of the Office of the Inspectorate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which will be available to interested parties on the IT network. The State Audit Office has presented its recommendation to this effect, which can also be accessed through the IT network. Dear Parliament, At last week's meeting of the House Committee, all political groups agreed that, in line with previous practice, Parliament should adopt non-scheduled speeches and a derogation from house rules in the interpellation period. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/1460. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to ask you to explain this to me, notary Dezső Believing.
u2018-09-17-63	Dear Parliament, At the autumn session of 2018, if the Parliament adopts its agenda for several weeks, 1. When dealing with exceptional matters within the meaning of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that, on behalf of the Group, its leader or the member of the Group invited by him - the HSZ 18. In addition to the possibility provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the Speaker shall be entitled to make a written announcement to the Speaker no later than one hour before the opening of the first sitting of the second week, on the other day of the second week of the meeting, to depart from the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in such a way that on the meeting on the second week of the meeting, containing the item on the agenda of the questions, only the question which was submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting day of the meeting may be discussed.
u2018-09-17-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 167 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. Fidesz's image group suggested that the interpellations take place on this day of the Parliament's meeting after the hour of immediate questions and answers. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the proposals tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to discuss the activities of the Economic Competition Authority in 2017 and the experience gained during the application of the Competition Act in relation to the application of competition purity and freedom of competition, B/748. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 50 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he asks the designated Agriculture Committee on the state of the agricultural economy in 2016 B/1360. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 118 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Assembly Committee on the activities and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2017 B/1370. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 117 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, The election of the president and members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank follows. Allow me to welcome Dr. Ferenc Papcsák, László Madarasz, Dr. Gábor Szényei and Dr. László Nyikos and our guests. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] The Economic Committee preparing the election of the President and members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank has heard the candidates and found Dr. Ferenc Papcsák to be a member of the Supervisory Board, László Madarász, Dr. Gábor Szényei, Dr. László Nyikos to be a member of the Supervisory Board. The personal proposal is S/1479. and the biography of the candidates can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, The chairman and the members of the Supervisory Board shall be elected by the Parliament, with the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present, for the duration of the term of office of the Parliament. First, we decide on the President of the Supervisory Board. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Dr. Ferenc Papcsák as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dr. Ferenc Papcsák, President of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank, by 118 votes in favour, 50 votes against and without abstention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Ferenc Papcsák is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] Dear Parliament, It is now up to the election of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. The National Assembly is the Act on the National Bank of Hungary 14. § 6 of the Supervisory Board shall vote on the election of the members of the Supervisory Board in one group at the same time. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank László Madarász, Dr. Gábor Szényei and László Nyikos. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Board shall vote on the election of the members of the Supervisory Board in one group at the same time. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank László Madarász, Dr. Gábor Szényei and László Nyikos. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the National Assembly elected László Madarász, dr. Gábor Szényei and László Nyikos to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank with 142 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of elected officials and the signature of the oaths. [[16.10]] First, the oath of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary followed by the oath of its members. I would ask the chairman and members of the Supervisory Board to come to the centre of the Chamber. [[It's happening.]] The first is the oath of the President of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. I would ask Dr. Ferenc Papcsák to take his oath, and I would ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath. He listens to this standing up according to the custom of the Parliament. [[The people in this room stand up. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-09-17-65	I, Ferenc Papcsák, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my office as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-09-17-66	Dear Parliament, Now the oath of the elected members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. László Madarasz, Dr. Gábor Szényei and Dr. László Nyikos, I ask you to take your oath, and I ask you to read the words of the oath, notary Lajos Szűcs. [[Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-09-17-67	Me, László Madarasz/Dr. Gábor Szényei András/dr. László Nyikos, I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-09-17-68	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the elected officials to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath documents, congratulates and presents a copy of the signed oath documents. Then Máté Kocsis, then Péter Harrach, Gergely Gulyás, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Márton Gyöngyösi, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Kristóf Szatmáry, Dr. István Simicskó, Lajos Kósa and Sándor Lezsák congratulated.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate the President and Members of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish them success in performing their work. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice of the District of 14 Bpk.1126/2018/4. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, Member of Parliament, has applied for the suspension of his immunity in private proceedings. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/1477. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of Parliament, submitted a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the transcript of the District Court, Ildikó Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of Parliament, applied for the suspension of his immunity for the offence of defamation, based on the complaint by István Németh Szilárd. [[Moraj in the benches of opposition parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: Oh!]] The ominous case or writing that gave rise to the complaint was still in the election campaign. The following sentence was published on the web portal 24.hu, which is exactly quoted from Bangóné. It was said:. After the first glimpse, we suspect that the signatures to the fake parties are in a significant part identical to those on the Fidesz candidate, Szilárd Németh's signature sheets. So he made a motion. Our committee noted that this was a private initiative, and the committee, by majority vote, decided to follow our previous practice, in the event of a private indictment, to recommend to Parliament that Bangóné's immunity not be granted by the Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-09-17-70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she wishes to take the floor. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély says no.]] The congresswoman does not wish to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély with 24 votes in favour, 130 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. District Court of 11 Bpk.635/2018/5. In his order No. 13, Szabó asked for the suspension of the immunity of Timea Szabó, Dialogue, Member of Parliament. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The Committee shall be H/1478. Parliamentary Member Szabó Timea presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. You have the floor, Mr. President. [[16.20]]
u2018-09-17-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This case was also discussed by the immunity committee on today's meeting. It is also a story that goes back to the election campaign. Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The District Court of Justice proposes that the right of a Member of Parliament of Szabó Timea be suspended on the basis of the complaint by Erzsébet Menczer. The events giving rise to the complaint took place on 16 March. A similar Facebook entry - I won't read it to you - happened on April 3rd. After that, the statements made in the Facebook post appear on a leaflet, and the statements made by Szabó Timea appear on the door of Ms Menczer's office even on 4 April. The committee also had to consider the content of the motion as a private initiative. Even if it is suitable for defamation of honor, as the indictor claimed, the immunity committee has followed its unbroken practice and suggests to Parliament that we do not suspend the immunity of Szabó Timea in this case. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-09-17-72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó is not in the room, so we do not know whether she would have wanted to react. It is therefore time for a vote. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it suspends the immunity of Mrs Szabó Timea. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Congresswoman Szabó Timea by 23 votes in favour, 131 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 4:21 p.m., we move on to the trial of immediate questions and interpellations. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long will your own ministerial responsibility extend? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2018-09-17-73	Mr President, I don't accept the response. Thank you.
u2018-09-17-74	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the identity of the responder. I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Before you have the opportunity to ask the Member, I must order a one-minute recess until the Prime Minister arrives in the Chamber. My fellow Members, please remain in your seats. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-75	Mr President, Dear House, I am fortunate to be able to address my words to Prime Minister because since May, there have been more than 1300 evictions in Hungary, on which, Prime Minister, your ministers and State Secretarys have repeatedly said that you have actually pulled people out of trouble, these are such final system failures, but the asset manager, the exchange rate barrier and the others have helped. The reality is that the removal of more than 1,300 people from their homes cannot be called a success story, nor is it a system error. If you follow the sequence, Prime Minister, you will see that in 130 of these evictions, the national asset manager you set up was the applicant. So now your savior's device is helping to get people out of your apartments. The representatives of Jobbik and other opposition representatives were invited to numerous evictions during the summer. Believe me, Prime Minister, we don't show up at events like this in good spirits. Especially when they are already trying to recover a recovered claim, especially when they attempt to recover the same claim twice by showing the executive cheese paper and hand-written scraps. And perhaps you will be convinced that a good part of such eviction attempts will be destroyed even as an appeal to the present court system, so you have been stopped, bleeding from so many wounds. These transactions are bleeding from a thousand wounds. I must also say that I find it untenable that in Hungary you are talking about economic success, you are talking about positive and catching up examples, while thousands of people are literally evicted. The National Asset Manager is full, there is no rental program, no social housing program. Prime Minister, my request, therefore, to confess, to answer openly what fate these people are destined for, what social measures they want to help them with, whether they want to support these citizens in any way, or whether they are doing what they have done, is to pretend that these hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary simply do not exist. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-76	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please.
u2018-09-17-77	Thank you very much for the congressman's question. Since I didn't feel more hurtful about your question, I'm not using the easy way to advise you that the man who lured hundreds of thousands and millions of people into the foreign exchange loan case is sitting at your fingertips, so let's discuss this between us. [[Gergely Arató: You mean Zsigmond Járai, Prime Minister?]] I think, after the question seemed well-intentioned, a similar answer is given. The first and most important question, because here I felt uncertainty about your question, is to clarify that you are evicting me. Your question or your question creates the image of the government evicting anyone. I would like to make it clear that this can't be, it can't be, it can't be, because it requires judicial decisions. So eviction is done through a judicial procedure. I would like to make it clear that it would not be right for us to take account of this. However, this does not excuse the government from the question of whether, regardless of how eviction takes place, it has the means and means to help these people. We have chosen the solution to suspend eviction during certain periods, so we order a moratorium, and in other cases we contact the local governments in order not to create a situation in Hungary that anyone should move under the bridge, whether they or the whole family together with their children. Therefore, through the municipalities, we are trying to help people who have been in this difficult situation, regardless of whether it was because of their own fault or outside. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-78	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-09-17-79	Prime Minister, my request is not to send me to inform economic terrorists. I didn't ask you for nothing. Although in 2001, when unilateral treaty amendments were made possible, if I remember correctly, the leaders of the faction on my left were not in a position of decision, but let us move on from this; and also that there is a Croatian example, along which you could start smiling and very quickly. I would like to say to you that the intention to lecture the Prime Minister should be far from me, but it is not only by judicial means that these implementations can be carried out. In the end, any enforceable authentic instrument may be involved. [[16.30]] I have to tell you, thousands of irregularities are causing the whole system to bleed. If you're talking about a moratorium, I must say your eviction moratorium is aspirin to the dying, Prime Minister. We should order an eviction moratorium until this whole mess, which banks, cheating executives, the notaries who didn't do their job together, we can clean it out of Hungarian public life and give these people normal life opportunities. So announce the moratorium until the problem is resolved, and my request is that, in addition to giving up the pact with the EBRD, stand there, talk to these people, contact them in order to detect this problem. And I'm saying this with the greatest good intentions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-80	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2018-09-17-81	I think it would be worth studying that Croatian case again, because you will see that everyone there pays the higher repayments, as opposed to Hungary. But it's a matter of detail. However, I think it is important that we have helped 700,000 families by forinting, fixing the exchange rate barrier to 186 thousand families, with the institution of end-reimbursement to 170 thousand families, with the establishment of the National Asset Manager to 36 thousand families. In the context of bank settlement, when it was time to recalculate, the repayments decreased by 30 percent, i.e. 30 percent. The Hungarian families were freed from a total burden of HUF 1000 billion. And in the eviction, as I said, we're trying to work with the municipalities. I'm sorry, but I don't always have my blood, so I have to quote here that the introduction of the exchange barrier and the help of foreign exchange credentials are not supported by your faction when it comes to decision-making in Parliament. In 2013, only 9 representatives from the 43-member group of Jobbik voted for the extension of the eviction moratorium. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-82	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2018-09-17-83	I'll take it.
u2018-09-17-84	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-09-17-85	Dear Secretary of State, It is the custom of this government to deny obvious facts that everyone can see well with the naked eye. At times like this, they are not simply slipping, they are putting together facts in a different way, but they are lying in a specific way. This also happens when the Hungarian government disputes whether or not teachers are missing in Hungary. There is an electronic registration system introduced by you in Hungary, the so-called KRÉTA, the basic system for public education registration and study. The KRÉTA was created to provide real and up-to-date information on schools, including labour supply and vacant posts. As this tool is also intended to support financial planning and concrete payments, school processes, its data were not cosmetic - even - we know that 17 percent of teachers are missing even in the best school district, Debrecen. But 130 kilometers away, in the Kazincbarcika district of Borsod County, this is now 45 percent, i.e. every other teacher's post is unfilled, Mr. Secretary of State. You said you'd be centralized to have a decent teacher in every settlement. At the end of August, there were 4325 vacant teachers' posts, so you hit the school year. They're talking nonsense, and the head of the KLIK basically admitted that it was true, and yet he denied it. I ask Mr. Secretary of State, I have three questions. Do you know how many teachers are missing today, how many vacant posts are there? Do they even know? How many teachers are under the Klebelsberg Center? My last question: what are you going to do to ensure that there is no vacant teaching job in Hungary? Thank you.
u2018-09-17-86	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-09-17-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Let us not forget, however, what you have done in Hungary on this issue. Because you now stand up here and say that more teachers are needed in Hungary. And when they steered, 15,000 teachers were dismissed in a school year. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! That's a lie!]] Nearly one in ten teachers have been dismissed from public schools, and now you stand up and tell me why there are no more teachers in public schools. They did all this by putting a lock on the doors of the school buildings in 381 places, there is no teaching there, because it was a small-town school, and they said that this establishment would be liquidated. And besides, who remained as a teacher, they took a month's wages, thus reducing the spending on education by more than one tenth. On the other hand, we have increased education expenditure, and we are now spending 606 billion more on next year's draft budget than you intended in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we look at the number of students in the OECD countries and see how many students have reached a teacher in Hungary a few years ago and now, then we can see a real figure of how many teachers there are in Hungary or how much there are no teachers in Hungary. In OECD countries, 13.6 students are assigned to a teacher. A few years ago in Hungary 11,7 and now 10.4 students get a teacher. In Hungarian, a teacher is more aware of a student than in the OECD countries, and the number of students a teacher has to deal with in Hungary on average has decreased by more than one student. There's no record you refer to, Congresswoman. The reason I won't be able to answer what you said is because there's no one who would keep track of how many teachers are missing from the system. Obviously, during the summer, many educators became employed. The system records the number of replacement hours. 170,000 teachers work in Hungary, and on average a teacher gets a half-hour replacement a week. This is the average in Hungary today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2018-09-17-89	Secretary of State, I do not accept your answer. You don't know, you don't know, you didn't answer. You could have even told me, Mr. Secretary, how old the captain is. But since the Prime Minister is in the room, I'll tell you what to do. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I'm running out of time. Retiring pensioners should be re-employed in such a way that, in addition to the pension, they receive their wages. This lack of teachers, Prime Minister, would help. And don't let the minister approve it on an individual occasion, but make a general rule. 2. Continue the pedagogical career model with an increase of at least 10 percent on a continuous basis, because in recent years the socialist government and you have been raising, but still very low. 3. Early educators leave this field in the critical 5-6 years. Here's to creating a tough scholarship system without, by the way, wage tension among those who have been around for 15 to 20 years. You can do that with a good scholarship if you want. And finally, I'm sorry, Prime Minister, you would have tied the teachers' screenings to the minimum wage at all times. You promised you wouldn't keep it, please do it again. Thank you.
u2018-09-17-90	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that only the Hungarian Socialist Party is able, after reducing the wages of teachers, to stand up and demand that at least 10 percent of the wages of teachers be increased immediately by the government that raised the wages of teachers by 50 percent. This contains so many logical loopholes, honourable Member, that it was a true socialist speech. What have we done, honourable Member? Rent surplus, since we have been in government, we have only provided HUF 300 billion for the surplus, not for the teacher's wages, only for the surplus. We've launched the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship. Two thousand students are now participating in this, precisely to encourage young people with scholarships to choose the teaching field. It's got 2,000 students in it right now, college student, and we're about to have our first senior year. In next year's budget, which you did not support, we will add another HUF 800 million to this goal, so that you will receive as many Klebelsberg scholarships as possible. And the fact that we started the pedagogical career with a 50 percent wage increase and we're also giving Klebelsberg scholarships has increased both the number of teachers and the number of people admitted by 30 percent. In the long term, however, we see that it will be able to provide a good supply of young teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-92	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. The opening of the school year? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontrat's response to an urgent public mission... [[For signal:]] Tibor Pogácsás appointed Secretary of State; they changed quickly on the way. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On the sign of László Hajdu:]] Do you accept?
u2018-09-17-93	Yeah.
u2018-09-17-94	You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.40]]
u2018-09-17-95	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Prime Minister! I would like to continue the other leg of the immediate question before me. He was an opener in this country on September 3, so the XV. I'd like to tell you a little story about what happened there. As you know, XV. In the district of Újpalota, in Rákospalota, in Pestújhely there will be an interim mayor election on 30 September, and the candidate for the opposition cooperation will be Angéla Németh. You're launching a repulsive, law-abiding candidate in the name of Tamás László. DK considers that this violation was committed by the candidate, since the opening of the school year was used as a campaign opener in the presence of five hundred children, in the presence of teachers; it was not mentioned in the original script that he would speak to him. He was a candidate in the middle of the campaign, the opening speech of the school year - which we do not know whether he was given instructions or what he was given - he said, and this opening year was as follows. Today, I think politics doesn't have to go to school, politics doesn't have to teach little, underage children, but that's what happened at this school opening. I think this is a type of abuse with the possibility that the KLIK is the nationalized school that has been taken away from the municipalities, and in essence the Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Supporter is being instructed, or the Klebelsberg Institution Supporter itself will self-destruct political speech writers or speakers for this school year opening which was unworthy of it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. Secretary, I ask you, why can this happen at a school year opening? Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-09-17-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think it is undisputed that one of the important steps of the change of regime was that he removed and banned party politics from the workplaces and schools. The rules still apply today, and the rules clearly say that in schools and children's institutions during the period when children are being raised, party-political events should not be held, and meetings should not be held for party policy purposes. At the same time, it is obvious that politicians are human, and regardless of whether they are politicians, they can attend school events or accompany their children to school or kindergarten, so they can appear in the institution. The decision whether or not a politician's appearance within the institution served a party political purpose, especially when there is an election period, is clearly not the Minister of the Interior, not the Ministry of the Interior, it is not even Parliament's business, but the electoral bodies that are entitled to decide. I am sure that the electoral bodies will properly classify this situation if such announcement is made and the necessary conclusions are deducted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2018-09-17-99	I used the word "supplied" because the local election committee, of course, condemned it and even fined it, who used unacceptable instruments at the opening of the school year. I think that he has also helped Angéla Németh, the opposition's joint candidate, because it is part of the resolution XV. district opening is a big scandal in the district, a topic of speech among teachers, a topic of speech among parents, and I think that this can be a lesson for the Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Provider in the future. Dear Secretary of State, I didn't expect any other answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-09-17-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-101	Thank you very much. Obviously, the local electoral committee thought about the event, which was obvious, since the electoral committee is a opposition majority. But let us not forget that you were invited to the opening of the school year, and the deputy mayor of the mayor of Angéla Németh was invited, who is a candidate for mayor, and you have long praised the deputy mayor's activities, his political activities so far. So, if you had properly investigated this case, in my personal opinion, you would have been judged as much as you have violated the campaigning and party politics in school, as you are now going to confront the Fidesz politician. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-102	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:.. How does it feel to be a chess player in other people's games? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-103	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, in recent weeks, you have again exposed yourself: you are not interested in the aspects of the Hungarian people at all. You have not put concrete proposals on the European Union's table either in relation to migration or in relation to the economic challenges that are fundamentally affecting Hungary's future. On the other hand, the European People's Party has been involved in internal struggles and positions around the EU institutions. Tell me, why is this good for Hungarian people? Why are you dragging them into the popular inner games? There has been no concrete proposal from you so far regarding migration, in the long term, taking into account the security aspects of the Hungarian people. At EU events, where you should represent Hungarians, you do not participate regularly, but you judge and yell from the outside. Just so you know, in recent years, on the political stage where you've been trying to play, new players have appeared, and today you've become a tool in other people's games. Now the Hungarian Prime Minister is being used by others for their own EU and domestic political games, while you are still hoping to benefit from positions within and outside the People's Party. And you're talking about sovereignty here, Prime Minister? You have been assisting for eight years the EPP coalition that has been unable to deal effectively and in time with both the 2008 economic crisis and the 2015 migration crisis in the European Union. You do nothing at European level but serve the interests of the multinationals, which are the primary cause of these crises. At last, Hungary needs a new policy, a new European Parliament, a new Commission, new representatives, so that the interests of the Hungarian people can finally be reflected, and the interests of Central Europe should be at least as strong as those of the founding Member States. You have no idea, and you don't want to solve these problems because you're nothing but a chess figure in other people's games, and these games are all about who's gonna be a Commissioner and what's gonna happen to each party. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of course, in such a way that they can represent the interests of the multinationals in any way possible. So, tell me, how does it feel to be a chess player in other people's games?
u2018-09-17-104	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-09-17-105	When I first read the title of the question, I thought about how many characters there were on that board; for example, the king is a chess figure, but I see that's not what he meant. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The answer comes from Zsiger, huh? Defiance. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I could have said if I had the right question that it felt cool, but I couldn't answer it like that. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On the other hand, I must say that I am devastated, Congresswoman, because I see that, despite my work, you are not paying any attention to my work. If he had given me a little attention - which I have no right to demand, but if he had already addressed me - he would have noticed that I went to Sofia myself before the elections, because the Bulgarians gave me the presidency and I took a proposal myself about how to protect the borders. I have some copyright in that paper. Thus, the Hungarian Government has drawn up a complete proposal under Schengen 2.0, which is about how to avoid the quota at the same time and how to help those who cannot defend the border on a voluntary basis. This is our substantive proposal, the position in which we are discussing with the proposal of the Brussels Commission and the German Chancellor, which has set the same goal as we have, but has chosen the wrong instruments compared to what we have drawn up at the level of the legislative text. So the Hungarian Government has a legislative proposal that was presented to the Bulgarian Prime Minister in Sofia in front of the world's full publicity at a public press conference. What else am I supposed to do to make you appreciate my work? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.50]]
u2018-09-17-106	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-107	Thank you. Prime Minister! You do not commend the Hungarian people to represent them in substance in the European Union. What you're talking about is a few lines that you submitted after, by the way, some things started to form a consensus. So you didn't take any meaningful steps, you didn't take any meaningful initiatives, you weren't at the Baku Forum, you weren't at the Berlin Process Summit, you weren't at the mini-peak. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So it seems that you are distracted, that you have no specific answers, and you can see that the question hurts you, because you are in a pathetic situation, what it feels like to be a tool in other people's games. You are the flag carrier of those who serve the multinationals unconditionally. That's what you're doing. These are the multinationals that have caused the two biggest crises of the decade, the ones that exactly the ethnic majority could not handle, to which you are constantly nodding unconditionally. So my question remains, how much longer do you want to judge from the outside, whether you represent the Hungarian people, and how does it feel to be a chess player in other people's games.
u2018-09-17-108	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2018-09-17-109	I'm trying. I wasn't even at the mini-peak, the congresswoman said. Dear fellow Member, At the mini-peak, the pro-immigration prime ministers were invited. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I received a similar question these days in a town called Strasbourg, and they asked me why I wasn't on Pride. I should have said the same thing to you there: for what would I have been doing there? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What would the Hungarian Prime Minister have been doing at the mini-peak of pro-immigration prime ministers? Why are you blaming this on me? Trust me, this isn't real. As far as the multinationals are concerned, I can tell you that in Hungary today there is a bank tax and a multi-tax, and in this regard we are more of a positive exception throughout the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-110	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The Care Fee." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State for his response. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-111	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, I received a letter from a woman in Kőbánya, allowing me to quote some of this letter. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] In the current legislation, i.e. home care regulations, the years spent caring at home are not eligible periods for women's reduced retirement with 40 years of service. "I myself, " writes the lady, "for 11 years I nursed my husband at home. In view of these years, I would already be entitled to a reduced pension of 40 years. That's all the quote is. I'm sure you know what I'm talking about, because it's not an individual case. Not so much that 45,000 people care for their children or elderly relatives at home for 365 days of the year without a holiday or a public holiday; there is no Sunday, there is no theatre, there is no cinema. They can get up to HUF 52,000 for this activity, which is unfairly low. I would just like to remind Mr Secretary of State that the same amount in Romania amounts to approximately 130 thousand forints, and there the period spent in home care is an employment relationship. For more than four years, civilians have been asking you to change this current legislation, which puts at a disadvantage all those who care for their loved ones at home - almost 50,000 people. The money required for this would be a few billion forints, which is less than the price of a stadium. In August, you initiated a consultation. There has been a slight mistake in this discussion that the civil society organisation that has been demanding a change in this regulation has not been invited for the longest time. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State when the Government will submit the necessary amendments and when the majority of Parliament intends to accept this. I'd be honored if you'd answer. Thank you.
u2018-09-17-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-17-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to point out, at the beginning of my reply, that for two years he was State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, between 2008 and 2010, there was no increase in the care fee during this period. However, after 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP assumed the responsibility for governance, we have been trying to increase these items ever since. Indeed, the inherited situation meant very deep care premiums. Here we also raised the basic care fee and increased the amount, and introduced a new category, as you know very well, the high-value care fee, so those who care for their most serious relatives have increased from HUF 37,000 to HUF 58 680, 63 percent, but of course we have worked and worked to increase it further and other benefits. For example, we introduced that for 20 years, the person who cared for his family in his own household will receive a pension supplement of HUF 50,000. You mentioned - and this is real, what you said - that the time for women is not included in 40, but is already included in the normal pension calculation, for example, as a service period, so the normal pension rights years can be supplemented by the home care period. This summer, as you pointed out, we had a lot of discussions with the National Association of the Autistics, the National Association of the People with Mental Disabilities and Their Helpers, the National Association of the Blind and Sensitive Seekers, the National Association of the Associations of the Disabled, the National Association of the Deafs and the Great Hearers, the representatives of the National Association of the Sietvaks and many other organizations. I don't know who you mean exactly who we didn't check with. I would like to quote one of the organisations, MEOSZ, who took part and issued a communication after it, and you can read it on its website: they welcome the fact that as a result of the consultations, a complex government measure aimed at effectively resolving the matter of the care fee is being outlined - and the proposal you have raised may well be a part of it. Let me quote one more sentence from the Communication: advocacy organisations are confident that the care fee will be resolved as soon as possible, given that there are constructive discussions on a real solution, during which the representatives of the affected wallets will look forward to resolving the problem, and we hope that this solution will be reached this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I learned from you when I was a minister. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: State Secretary.]] Believe me, I remember. He told me all the information from the press and what they put on your desk. You didn't answer one thing I asked you about what the government wants to do. Be kind here to tell the Parliament and, through this, to the general public, whether the government wishes to increase the amount of the current, unfairly low care fee or not. That's the question. Please respond. Thank you.
u2018-09-17-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-17-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, that's why we sat down to negotiate. And in recent years, we have raised the amount of the care fee, raised the budget - which of course you have not supported - the full framework for the care fee, we have introduced the extra 50 thousand HUF allowance for the pension and the other discounts, because we want a wider discount. In fact, we're thinking more than you are. I mean, you're suggesting there's no theater, there's no holiday. We are also thinking - and here you can also read to MEOSZ in your communication - that discussions are taking place on several steps, precisely so that a solution can be found that not only helps in terms of money, but obviously the 24-hour, 365-day daily burden that is truly a home care situation for families, we are also trying to help, whether by day care or by other means. All these proposals are on the negotiating table, and, as I said, this year the government will deal with this, the government will make a decision, and you will, of course, and the organisations involved and involved in the negotiations will be informed firsthand. I could have said it in one word, the answer to the question is yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-118	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: Can the immigration special tax be avoided? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-09-17-119	Yeah, I'll take it. [[17.00]]
u2018-09-17-120	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-121	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, At the beginning of this year, the government discussed the Stop Soros legislative package, but with the final vote it was very responsible for waiting for the outcome of the parliamentary elections. The message of the election result was clearly that people did not want to live in an immigrant country, either now or in the future. In this spirit, the immigration special tax was adopted in the previous session, which imposes a 25% tax rate on Soros organisations which carry out any immigration support activities in such a way as to provide support to organisations that actually facilitate immigration in Hungary. [[The notary seats are occupied by Sándor Szabó and Dr. Winner Vinnai.]] The regulation also states that if an internal or foreign organisation providing financial support to organisations assisting immigration in Hungary does not comply with its tax liability, the organisation it supports will become subject to the tax. I believe that taxing these fake NGOs supported from abroad is entirely fair, as the country has spent hundreds of billions of forints on border protection in recent years. I find it outrageous that the Migration Aid organisation, which is supported by a billion-dollar speculator, is also recognised and published by itself as a taxable person, wants to avoid the law in order to avoid its obligation to pay taxes. In the middle of the summer, the organization announced with great joy that they wished to become a party, called the Night's Watch; it is also likely that there is a tax avoidance objective, since the parties cannot be subject to the immigration special tax as a tax. That is why I ask: what legal possibilities are there to prevent these immigration organisations from circumventing the payment of the immigration special tax? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The adopted immigration special tax law is unique in the European Union and even worldwide. So we Hungarians came up with this, too. This is not the first such law, which was born in Hungary, and was later taken over by other countries. This special tax law is likely to be the same. Indeed, as you said, the fight against migration, an important part of the fight, is this adopted law, whose purpose is quite clear: it aims to tax organisations who support such organisations and organisations that support migration. They are therefore the primary taxable person of the law, not the organisations that grant them the aid, but those who give them the aid. Its aim is clear: to obtain budget support in order to reduce the expenditure generated by migration activities. It is very important that the law includes sanctions, and it is not possible to avoid paying the special tax, because compliance with the law applies to all organizations and all taxable persons in Hungary. It is very important that, in the event that the support organisation does not pay it, the organisation performing the migration activity will become a tax entity and the tax authority will closely verify whether the tax return and the special tax are paid, and this indeed has sanctions in the event that the tax authority will see that this has not happened. It is therefore important that the scope of the law applies to all organisations and to all taxable persons engaged in migration activities. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-125	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the information, I accept the answer, but I also think it is important to highlight today's press notification that, apart from the Migration Aid organisation mentioned earlier, neither the Hungarian Helsinki Committee nor Amnesty International would like to make a declaration, nor would they pay the 25% immigration special tax by deadline. I think that this attitude is truly shocking on their part, because as long as I am called upon to comply with the law on many occasions, it is they who are going against their legal obligations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary, you have the right to an answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-127	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it was just today published in the press that the organisations concerned, Migration Aid and Amnesty International do not want to admit or pay taxes. What is particularly regrettable is that this was also approved by the Hungarian Helsinki Committee to avoid paying the obligation imposed by Hungarian law. It is quite clear that their intention to transform into a party is also an attempt to circumvent a law. It must be said that these organisations, these Soros organisations, are also able and willing to circumvent the Hungarian laws to extend their migration activities. So they are illegally trying to face the interests of Hungarian people, the will of Hungarian people. I think that no Hungarian government can allow this. Therefore, it is clear that these organisations will be monitored by the tax authority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-128	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask an immediate question to Minister Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, without his wallet:. You went hunting, you shot him, the helicopter took him home - or let's talk about hunting until the dialogue about this is banned centrally! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, First of all, thank you for coming out of your cave as a bear to protect the hunting peekers, and finally, after several weeks, you're willing to answer my question. You, albeit Deputy Prime Minister, have been a member of the government for quite a long time, so as a politician, you are a very influential man, but in your hunts you lose your political character, and you claim to accept as a private person millions of gifts given by people who later receive tens or hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies for their businesses under the influence of politics and government. Of course, your claim is that it is merely a coincidence that an entrepreneur who gives you a million-dollar hunts as a private person will, of course, win applications regardless of gifts. In multimillion-dollar hunts, you're not a politician, you're a private man, a hunter. Therefore, it is not bad that he accepts these gift hunts, but he does not even have to confess in his declaration of property, nor does he need to know exactly how much he was shooting domestic reindeer for. I'll tell you again, you're getting these hunts from a businessman who has won hundreds of millions of forints of state money for his hotels in recent years. Of course, you're trying to adjust this situation, because if you didn't lose your political character in accepting these million-dollar gifts, then there might be a possibility of corruption and bribery. Deputy Prime Minister. You've been on a million-dollar gift hunt in Sweden - where, as we know, you've been shooting pets - in Canada on a gift hunt - that must have been very cheap too. Don't you feel that a deputy prime minister is morally unacceptable to accept such multimillion-dollar gifts and then don't report this to the public and continue to sit next to the Prime Minister as a deputy prime minister? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Lajos Korózs: The polar bear is coming!]]
u2018-09-17-130	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. You have the floor, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-09-17-131	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear congressman, for some mysterious reason, you have a sickly interest in my personal life. [[Dr. István Apáti: God forbid! An uproar from the ranks of DK, Jobbik and MSZP.]] The thing is, of course, everything you've told me is a lie. The Swedes themselves have declared that everything was legal, legal, and fair. First of all, it's not about luxury; try to spend a few nights in one airspace with five, otherwise dead drunk numbers. [[It's a riot from DK's ranks.]] And then you'll find out what it's like to hunt in that country. [[17.10]] By the way, that helicopter was needed. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because there's no road in the area, so the numbers can't pick up the table any other way. By the way, the meat, it's all theirs. When the deer was carried by the helicopter, of course I wasn't there. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] since I didn't chopper, but the deer, because there's no other way to get it in, but these are details. [[Noise, constant interrogations from the opposition.]] The most important question is that I have never handled anything for anyone in this regard. So, first of all, I have no competence; second of all, it didn't occur to me to do anyone any favors in this regard. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They did you a favor!]] By the way, I would like to say that, after, like the spiritual predecessor of the Arrowed Housekeeper, he filed complaints from the DA's office through the NAV to the immunity committee, otherwise hand in hand with his Transparency colleague whose name I can no longer remember, you now have a document from the DA's office. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] NAV (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Yay!) And from the immunity committee, that you're lying, and I'm right. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Thank you...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-132	Thank you very much for the Deputy Prime Minister's reply. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in return.
u2018-09-17-133	Deputy Prime Minister! I didn't say anything about a helicopter, I didn't say one sentence. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: You were involved in your question!]] Are you saying the procedure was legal and fair? You're saying there's a report? In no normal country should have filed a complaint or anything, since there should have been a declaration of assets procedure for your affairs, whether you had hidden something in your declaration of assets; a NAV investigation should have been carried out to see if everything was okay from a tax point of view around Zsolt Semjén; a prosecutor's investigation should have been carried out to see if there had been any bribery or corruption in connection with the hunts. In a normal country, there would be tests like this. In a normal country, believe me, Zsolt Semjén would not be a deputy prime minister after such scandals, nor would he be a Member of Parliament. In a normal country, it's called corruption, believe me. You accept million-dollar hunts, you go shooting at pets, and it looks like if this hunt was so bad, you could have been tricked pretty hard. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Deputy Prime Minister, believe me, it's morally insufferable. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To receive millions of gifts from entrepreneurs. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-135	Congressman! I was reported to the D.A.'s office, reported to the I.R.S., reported to the immunity committee half a dozen times. Every authority in the world has determined that you're lying, and I'm right. [[Noise, interjections.]] On a moral issue, you are the last person to speak in this House for two reasons. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] First of all, you could say a few sentences about your relationship with gambling in this respect. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Five drunks...]] with regard to moral matters. [[György Szilágyi: What kind of gambling?]] In the other case, you are the representative of the party that came from the Hungarian Guard to the Spinoza House, who came from Budaházy to Ágnes Heller, the poisoned fruit of two betrayals. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] an alcoholic oligarch and Gábor Vona's apostasy. So you're the last people in this House to say the word "moral." [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Zsolt Semyen bows to the governing parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Clown! Crying out of Jobbik's ranks, circus clown!]]
u2018-09-17-136	Dear Parliament, [[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, Dr. János Hargitai, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, How do you evaluate the performance of the economy and what opportunities it creates for us? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Deputy Minister András Tállai to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, After these elevated moments, it is almost sacrilege to talk about the Hungarian economy, but I think it still belongs to the dignity of the Parliament to talk about the performance of the Hungarian economy in connection with the launch of the political season, and to give the government the opportunity to explain its position with my immediate question. Even more so, as we were able to account for very positive growth figures in the spring, the growth of the Hungarian economy was close to 5 percent. We can also say that this increase is at last not based on indebtedness, as it was before in the socialist governments, if there was any growth. The shifts in employment are also encouraging. Ten years ago, 3.2 million people were employed, and today the number of people employed is close to 4.5 million. The most enjoyable performance in recent years, obviously due to the dynamic increase in wages, the dynamic increase in real wages and the prospect that this trend can continue in the coming period. If we measure the growth of the Hungarian economy in an international perspective, we can also say that it is at least twice the growth of the European Union, and that Hungarian growth throughout Europe belongs to the forefront. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how you, as a representative of the government, appreciate the performance of the Hungarian economy, the trends on which you would draw attention. My question really wants to run out of options for all of us with the welcome growth figures of the Hungarian economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The numbers you're telling me are real. Indeed, the scale of the Hungarian economy increased by 4.8 percent in the second quarter. This third highest rate of growth in the European Union, which has been achieved by our country and our economy, is more than twice the average of the EU Member States. To get to your question, I would like to prove what the country has done for this reason, what the Hungarian Government has done for this reason, that we are now able to talk about such great data in a sustainable manner. The first and most important is the expansion of the employment you mentioned. Indeed, 4.7 million people now have jobs, and unemployment is record low, 3.7 percent. This combined a significant increase in incomes, a dynamic increase in wages, thereby improving our competitiveness, and thus increasing the income and consumption of people working much more; yes, as consumption has increased by 5.3 percent in the second quarter in the last 15 years. But beyond that, in addition to increasing employment and increasing wages and incomes, there is a significant increase in investment, the performance of industry, especially in the construction sector, including housing. This is also due to the measures taken by the government, as the introduction of CSOK has significantly increased the housing market, which has meant more employees and more economic growth for the country in recent years.
u2018-09-17-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-141	Mr. Secretary. If we are talking about the country's economic performance, then we think that we can count on successes and we must be careful, because it is always possible to expect better numbers and better numbers, even in terms of growth, which is the most important thing for people and Hungarians. In terms of their wage situation, and therefore despite the dynamic wage increase, it is possible to live in the hope of higher wages, and I think that those who think so rightly think so. The economic performance of a government is always determined by the base from which it started eight years ago. In the autumn of 2008, we all know that the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian budget economy, went bankrupt, and we had to take the country from this low point. In light of this, the numbers you have reported here are obviously welcome. I ask that the government continue to pursue a fiscal policy in order to maintain this trend. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[17.20]]
u2018-09-17-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, it is very important that economic growth in Hungary is sustainable. But one more word about the results, as GDP exceeded the 2010 level by more than 20 percent compared to 2010 figures, and it is very important that our economy's performance on the basis of 2010 was ahead of the performance of the Czech economy and reached the performance of the Slovak economy at the base level in 2014. In the Convergence Programme, a 4.3 percent increase was foreseen. The important aim of the government, the Ministry of Finance, is to maintain this economic growth permanently, as it means that there are jobs, that there is income, that there is consumption, that there is investment, that is, that the economy is strong, and that people's existence can grow. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-144	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, It's 5:21 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we continue our work with the interpellations. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "Mosts on the side of the road?" It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-145	Mr President, Dear House, Not the first time, and I promise you, it won't be the last time we talk about eviction in this House. We have already discussed a brief anecdote on this matter with Prime Minister. I appeal to the Secretary of State to what extent he considers humanly acceptable that more than 1,300 families have been evicted from his home since May, and that these phenomena will continue in the next few weeks without the announcement of a moratorium. And I have to say, all versions of executive abuse occur on a very wide scale. I have to say that in the case of notaries, it is often obvious that they simply did not fulfil their statutory duties and are already seeking to recover reimbursable claims. And a very specific story emerged: civil rights defenders, victims, lawyers, activists, and alternative media workers with opposition representatives are typically good representatives - they appear at these events, of course, only to verify the legality of the processes. But even during this inspection, our professional lawyers have found so many problems that the situation that confronted the executioner immediately became available is that the implementation and eviction were not carried out. I would therefore say, Mr Secretary of State, that if you would devote a minimum amount of effort to this and, in the same way, look at the legality of these processes at the level of the legislation, thousands of Hungarian families could be protected from eviction. And just think, Mr. Secretary, what happens to such a family at home after the loss of habitat. A lot of people don't usually have a place to go, in which case the family breaks apart, if the guardianship takes the child, then the chances of recovery are minimal. My main concern is how he can morally account for the eviction of more than 1,300 families. In addition to my understanding of their propaganda on economic supposed successes, but it is still the undisputedly difficult fate of Hungarian people. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-17-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we have been pursuing this polarity for a long time now, and Prime Minister has also touched on this issue in the hour of immediate questioning when he raised it. I believe that no one can claim that, in recent times, either the government or Parliament has not done their best and has done as much as possible on this issue. If we just think that we have talked about over a million debtors over the past period, whose situation we have managed to improve, and most of whom we have managed to free from the debt trap, whether by forinting or counting banks, by final repayment, and I can go on to list the measures that we have put before this House in our countless speeches, then it is clear that we have done a great job. At the same time, it must also be recognised that, within the framework of the rule of law, the conditions of the market cannot be completely excluded from the scope of the legislation, that legal guarantees and conditions must be created, starting through the procedure of notaries, through the continuous use of the judicial route, through the improvement of the skills of the executive staff, which can guarantee that no one can be deprived of property or housing against the law. I am very pleased that there are qualified lawyers in these acts, if they can point out the shortcomings that stop these processes if there are errors. However, it is the presentation by the Member that supports the fact that there is indeed a right, there are opportunities, and if they do not act accordingly, these processes can be stopped. The other part of the matter, which Prime Minister said, is that the state is constantly searching either through the asset manager or through the private institution, creating opportunities for those who are in deep trouble, who are completely financially insane, and for those who are still able to throw a lifeline. We know very well that more than 30,000 families have managed to create and maintain their housing with the help of the asset manager. The fact that, even in this situation, in this environment, there are those who are unable to ensure their maintenance, their continuous overhead costs, of course, may result in the asset manager not being able to finance them indefinitely, but in finding other solutions. This was the case for family support services, social services and the help of local governments, but what we mentioned was that in the most difficult situation, for example, the extension of the winter eviction moratorium served not to put someone in a position to move when, where appropriate, seasonal difficulties would make it even more difficult for debtors or those who have to leave other people's property. Because in this circle - of course we talk little about this - not only in the event of the loss of ownership, not only in the event of the loss of the apartment, but also in the case of tenants who do not pay the rent, where private individuals are the victims of this situation, they ask for enforcement in respect of residents who do not comply with the legislation. I very much hope that either the facilitation of the private bankrupt institution promoted by the Christian Democrats, or the further steps that will be taken before this House, will also have the support of the opposition in the future. Prime Minister also pointed out that we did not have this in many cases when we took these debt relief measures. I will ask for your cooperation in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-148	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the Member if he accepts the answer to the interpellation.
u2018-09-17-149	Mr State Secretary, I would like to say that there are no circumstances under which more than 1300 evictions could be justified within a six-month period, although the social security system does not help these people in almost no way. So I am asking you to declare the eviction moratorium until you can solve this problem. It would be possible to argue about the asset manager, how to recapitalisation and how to cancel the pacts with the EBRD, but, Mr State Secretary, in addition to the fact that I cannot accept his reply due to its inadequate professional nature, let me make use of an unorthodox proposal: this week, Thursday, at six o'clock in the morning, an eviction has been announced in the third round, which has already been prevented twice, because he is bleeding from thousands of violations. Thursday morning, at 6:00 p.m., the bailiff announced all this. I'll be at XXIII. in the district. My request is for you to join us. Through my personal channels, I will, of course, present both the address and contact details to you. I look forward to hearing from you, waiting for your masculine stand. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-09-17-150	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[17 .30]] Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title of the failed reform. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2018-09-17-151	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, former State Secretary of Health, announced a kind of health reform in 2016, and said that he would review the minimum hospital conditions system and then take the necessary measures. Recently, it has been found that 25 percent of supply organisations, hospitals, are unable to provide the full minimum conditions for recipients. It turned out that, not only there is no survey, there has not been a system of minimum conditions, but no substantive measures have been taken in this area. I would like to remind this House that two weeks ago, the emergency department of the Honvéd Hospital almost collapsed, as 112 doctors who refused to take the volunteer overtime, given that the institution refused to pay the overtime they had completed. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] But it's true, my fellow Member. [[István Szilárd Németh: You lie as always!]] In addition, they threatened these doctors. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] that if they leave the institution, they will ensure that they are not employed and are not given jobs by any other health care institution. I would also like to remind this House that as of 2012, the entire health care system has been nationalised, or at least the hospitals are in public hands and other institutions are under state control. However, we have not seen any real change in this area either, as far as reforms are concerned, in addition to the fact that from now on all responsibilities belong to the state, since all tasks and powers have been taken over by the state. The same problem has recently been the case of hospital infections. I mention it because we have interpelled here several times in the previous term and in the spring session, at the level of every parliamentary faction has spoken on this issue outside of Fidesz. The new Minister, Minister Kásler, considered it to be one of the main problems, but the Minister of State for Health in charge of the area says that he does not even understand why this should be dealt with, it would be best for Parliament not to know about hospital infections, not to mention that there is no summary data available to any professional. I am therefore asking you, Mr Secretary of State, when emergency care will be fixed, when you promise to produce a comprehensive, detailed and understandable report on the last eight years of hospital infections as soon as possible. I would like to ask further questions about universal health access, including cost protection, as the Agenda on Sustainable Development set the target for 2030, when medicines, vaccinations and safe, effective, affordable quality medicines will be provided. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2018-09-17-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When I read the title of your interpellation about the failure of reform, I thought there was finally going to be an honest confession about socialist health. You have failed several times with your own health ideas. There were times when you were voted down by a referendum, for example on 5 December 2004, when the Hungarian people first said that they did not want to, and then, in March 2008, in the social referendum, they confirmed this once again. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You paid for health care!]] When they said they didn't want privatisation, they didn't want a visitation fee, they didn't want a hospital allowance. The Hungarian people have failed your various health sprees twice, and then you have failed in the end. That concludes the kind of reform you introduced in health care. With this, 600 billion forints were taken from Hungarian health care, four hospitals were closed, 16,000 active beds were set down, 6,000 medical workers were laid off, a month's wages were taken away, and, as I said, they wanted to make it pay for almost every patient who goes to a home doctor or goes to a hospital for health care. You wanted paid health care. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You did it!]] Because basically they saw small profits in health care, they tried to privatize it, and they thought it was a problem area. Therefore, the profit-making part of the SZDSZ tried to outsource it, and the rest of it you didn't deal with in substance and in substance. This is also seen in international comparisons, as Hungary alone was one of the most developed countries, among all OECD countries, where the per capita health expenditure fell between 2003 and 2010. Only one country of all developed countries! After 2010, however, health expenditure per capita increased to the highest level, because a new government started its work in Hungary. With regard to hospital infections, you know, honourable Member, that one of the regulations has already been adopted, as I recall, on the 11th and has been published in the Gazette. In the case of the other, which sets out the new tasks of both the government, the management and the staff on the side of the sickbed, the social debate is under way. It's probably gonna happen this year, too. However, in the case of three of the most common hospital infections, you can recognise the decreasing trend, I think, and here our numbers are very good, even in relation to Finland. HUF 8 billion is spent in the convergence region and HUF 1.5 billion in the Central Hungary region to increase patient safety, including the prevention of hospital infections, the development of hygiene products, the development of patient identification systems, safe drug administration and laboratory development. You said that since there has been a state-owned health care system, there has been no substantial change. Let me tell you what is not a meaningful change for you. Of our many hundred hospitals, 77 have been renovated in whole or in part, but you don't think there's been any real change. We've renovated 54 clinics, but you don't think there's been any real change. We've renovated 104 rescue stations, but you don't think there's been any real change. We've built 23 completely new clinics in state reserve, but you don't think there's been any real change. We've built 31 completely new rescue stations, but you don't think there's been any real change. We bought a total of 793 ambulances if I count next year. With this, the average age of ambulances has now been held down from 8.3 years to less than 6 years, and next year, 5.5 years will be the average age of an ambulance in Hungary, but according to you there has been no meaningful change. Honourable Congressman, By spending HUF 650 billion a year more on health than you intended in 2010, this is a 1.5 percent increase in GDP. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! It's just not true!]] We are now spending 1.5 percent of GDP on people's recovery. What has failed is your health policy, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-17-154	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-155	I don't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Secretary of State, you can plaster, paint, concrete, but if you don't have a doctor, you don't have a doctor, you don't have nurses, you don't have the XXI. Century-appropriate techniques, then we're screwed. [[Rushing from the pro-government benches. Péter Cseresnyés: How do you speak, Congressman?!]] That's exactly right. That's exactly right! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is the style of health care, this is the opinion of health care!]] Please, today in Hungary more than 300 doctors are missing from primary care. More than 300 medical practices are not loaded because they are unable to provide opportunities for doctors to take up basic care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Because that's how you talk about health care, for example!]] In Hungary, thousands of doctors are missing from specialist care, thousands of workers are missing from health care. Please do not tell me that if a State Secretary for Health is also responsible for funding, professional control, hospital maintenance and representation of patients' rights, it is a substantive measure. This is what is happening in Hungary today. I don't accept your answer.
u2018-09-17-156	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 33 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they refuse to acknowledge home care as an employment relationship? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2018-09-17-157	[[The speaker and several representatives around him wear a white T-shirt with the inscription "The Home Care Work!" Let's move so they can move!]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, This is the first time you've heard home care is a job. This is the message that many of you have come here today to finally realize that more than 50,000 families are waiting to acknowledge immediately that their activity is a job that must be paid for. I am also saying this because in recent months you have promised to do something, at committee meetings, at public meetings; it is finally time for you to roll up your sleeves and finally do something. [[17.40]] Dear Secretary of State, You should do what you haven't done for years. Here's the letter they promised me. [[He's showing me a document.]] written to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets that you will finally invite the members of the committees to consult, and those concerned who have contributed to this, and which has been a recurring topic since summer, to review the remuneration of home care. Home care is 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. Do you know, Mr. Secretary, that if someone on the market wants to pay for this job, how much does it cost? I'll tell you this: it costs 24,000 forints, that's what those service providers are asking today to do this anyway, that's how much it costs. If someone does this job on their own, you'll try to reward it by 53,000 forints. This is the reason why we speak week after week for those who do this work. Dear Secretary of State, Today, the people involved were here, the people you refused to meet. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Who is it? What's your name?]] They refused to receive the letter from the representatives of the association. This is what I have brought to you, to you again and again, I will give it to you. It is time to deal with this, because in the Czech Republic 180,000, in Croatia 140 thousand forints, in Slovakia 138 thousand forints is the labour fee that is paid for this. Therefore, you have nothing to do but to do at last, to get to work, and not to deny yourself when it comes to the subject. Dear Secretary of State, Please do something. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-09-17-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Firstly, I ask you, honourable Member, not to question the good intentions of the governing parties on this issue, which is not only at the level of words. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] we have shown ourselves in recent years, but also at the level of legislation. First of all, you said that for years the government has not done anything to raise here. In the Ministry of Economy between 2008 and 2010, not only was our fellow Member Burány State Secretary, but you were also State Secretary in the same Ministry, Ministry of Economics. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: You didn't raise it with a penny! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There was no 900 HUF in a kilo of peaches!]] Was it raised in 2008? No. Was it raised in 2009? No. It was raised in 2010? No, Your Honour. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] So when you stand up here and roll up your sleeve [[Intercoms.]] remember the years when you were Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy in a previous government and did not raise this item with any HUF. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] The other, honourable Member, you have stated here that these organisations have not been consulted by the government. Honourable Congressman, I've personally checked with these organizations for three hours. Don't tell us the government won't talk to them. They were one of the first people we discussed this issue with. [[Intercoms from DK and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I will read to you who else we have consulted, but they were the first to begin this year's conciliation process, and then we continued with the National Association of Associations of Limited Movements, the National Association of Autists, the National Association of People with Intellectual Disabilities and Their Aids, the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Association of Deafs and Big Hearers, as well as representatives of the National Association of the Sicet Blinds. We have also sat down with those whose letters you have just presented here, Congressman, and those whom I have listed here, precisely in order to achieve the widest possible level of consultation. And it has to be said because you have forgotten to mention this because in recent years we have been counting on rising items in the budget of the care fee, we have used the new category, the priority care fee in 2014, so the monthly allowance for those who are in the worst position has increased by 63 percent, and, of course, as we have tried to raise these items year after year in the previous years, we will continue to strive to increase them in the coming years. Fortunately, we have the economic opportunity since 2013, because the Hungarian economy is now stronger and, of course, we have the intention, both of them met. At the time when I recall that our colleague Mátra Mátra Mátra's proposal to increase the care fee was rejected in 2004, it seems that you did not have the intention, although perhaps there was economic power in the country at that time; in 2008, 2009 and 2010, it seems that neither the intention nor the economic force existed anymore. I would also like to say that what has already been mentioned here today is that, during the period of payment of the care fee, we have introduced a pension supplement of HUF 50,000 for persons who care for their child, who receive this care fee, and what I mentioned is that this should be taken into account as a service period. Honourable Congressman, The government's intention has been to raise in recent years, which is why there has been a 63-percent increase in the worst cases, and I have already read that the advocacy organisations considered the negotiation to be meaningful, they considered the negotiation to be forward-looking, and they see that there will be a complex proposal that can help them, and they literally say that they welcome the effective resolution of care in the negotiations, and that there is a government effort to do so. If the interest representatives of those concerned say so, it is more credible to me than what you say as an opposition representative who, as State Secretary, has done nothing in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-09-17-161	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I do doubt your words. This debate has been going on for months, between those involved and even you, and they need to be spoken up and supported, because you are ignoring all of this. And that's why, for example, not only do we say that, but the Sargentini report also states: [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You shouldn't have brought this here.]] That's what chapter 12 is about. That's how you do it and do it. That's why today, when you were here protesting, you didn't deal with them. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And that's why I have to be the one to give you the letter to finally take those people's requests into account. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I've been negotiating with them personally!]] They're asking you for 50,000 forints a month to make a living, by the way. That's why you should finally make a decision. Therefore, the answer you have said cannot be accepted. And as a reminder, I'll give you their message.
u2018-09-17-162	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 29 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Szabolcs Szabó, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. 25 children depend on the country's national security? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2018-09-17-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fact is that if Viktor Orbán were to deal with Hungarian people, such as those families who care for their loved ones at home and would not start an international career in scandal, then we should not spend all day dealing with the unblessed situation of those who care for their loved ones at home in Hungary. The reason we have this T-shirt in opposition is because you do not carry out your duty. No matter how many trials they've had, it hasn't worked out yet. We are waiting for actions and not words, Mr. Secretary of State, and the opposition will stand up for this until you make your move, whether you like it or not. Last week, my colleague Szabolcs Szabó and I visited the transit zone. We wanted to see everything that's going on there, and we wanted to talk to the people involved. Anyone who enters the transit zone and waits for a decision of their own destiny is entitled to a daily meal there for him. [[17.50]] These are not complicated things, as Gábor Iványi put it, orders of the same age as humanity and civilization. In addition, there are regulations, Mr. Secretary of State, there are international rules. On this basis, if a younger child is a young child, five meals a day, and if he is an adult, three meals a day are given to the people there. I personally met with my colleague women who had not been fed or starved for three or four days in the transit zone. I would particularly like to highlight the issue of children living in the zone. There were 61 people in the Röszke transit zone, 25 of which were children. I would like to point out that these children are often in the transit zone for months, for six months. A little baby was just born, and we were standing there with her and her mother. I would like to point out that there is half a basketball court area, all locked up with barbed wire and razor wires, and these kids can't walk out of there for months unless they go to the doctor. We've heard all kinds of terrible stories. There are severely traumatized children who have been victims of police brutality in other countries. We didn't see them get the psychological help they needed. And we also see that the mothers have asked that they stay in the transit zone, they have no problem with it, but at least take the children out for a walk sometimes, so that they do not spend half a year of their lives in the Hungarian transit zone. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like to make it clear once and for all that such treatment is not acceptable in the Hungarian transit zones. I would like to ask you what the Hungarian Government is doing to ensure that innocent, completely innocent children do not suffer trauma and are not traumatized for life in the Hungarian zones. And what does the Hungarian Government do to enable you to say that Hungary does not support unlimited immigration, but that we are treated humanely against those arriving here, and that we respect everyone's dignity? I'm waiting for your answer and thank you.
u2018-09-17-164	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-09-17-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I reject the cynical speech of the congresswoman, her false statements, the distortion of the facts. The Defence and Police Committee and members of the National Security Committee have been in transit zones before, but so far no opposition representative has wanted to use this as a political virtue based on false allegations. Obviously, the safety of the country must not be protected from children, but from illegal migrants. Hungary's national security, our national sovereignty is not a negotiation. The Immigration and Asylum Office shall act in accordance with the provisions of domestic and European Union legislation and other international legislation, paying particular attention to children's rights and the best interests of children, honourable Member. In the transit zone, an employment room, a medical room, a playground, a common dining room and a prayer room are also available for children's physical, intellectual, emotional and moral development. You've seen and experienced this. We take care of five meals a day for children's age, health and other needs. So once again, five meals a day are provided by the Immigration and Asylum Office. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The placement of unaccompanied minors and applicants under the age of 14 in child homes is ensured and therefore the finding of placement in the correctional institution indicated in the written interpellation is not correct. Also the miscarriage during transport from the transit zone referred to in the written interpellation, which is indicated in the written interpellation, is not known to the police or to the office. Congresswoman, we have been generous and we have not noted that you have deviated from the text of the interpellation submitted, and you have not read that text, but I am answering that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: House rules dictate that.]] That's right. I would like to inform you about the boy with the panic disorder you mentioned, that you are not a panic patient based on the results of previous medical examinations. On the spot, transport to a pediatric and adult physician, medical staff and, where appropriate, to a clinical examination has also been resolved. I would also like to point out, with all due respect, to the fact that the transit zone can be left for Serbia at any time, so there is no personal freedom restriction. This accusation has been made several times, but it is completely unfounded. You have seen, and you have seen, that you can leave the transit zone towards Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian authorities act legally in the course of the proceedings, in a spirit of humane treatment and respect for human dignity. Madam Member and honourable Member, I trust that my answer will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. We'll continue. Szabolcs Szabó will then answer whether or not to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2018-09-17-167	Thank you very much for the floor. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, I have some bad news: we were there in person. Anyone who hasn't been there should go. We'd be happy to go separately, Mr. Secretary. Take another look, because you've been looking in the wrong place. These people are locked down by lockdown. That's where a cop posts, that's how he looks at people. Razor wire is all over the place. They're locked up. The playground is just that there are two games out there on the murvahed murvah. Cut! No trees, no nothing, no flowers, no plants. These little kids are locked up, surrounded by a blade wire. Think about it, would you put your children in these conditions? ! It's not like she gets up and says she's leaving. It's locked with a lock! When we went in, they locked the door with a lock. That's how they live there for many months. Of course we don't accept the answer. Family years and Christian democracy... Doesn't the skin come off your face?
u2018-09-17-168	Congressman! On several occasions today, there has been an objection that Members should always use a style in their speeches that is in line with Parliament's practice. Congressman, your time is up. From now on, I'm the only one who can speak. Let's just say I'm warning you. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman and Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I'm asking if the House will accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 30 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó, representatives of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: what can we expect from the Fidesz-KDNP government, beyond belief and lies? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Tordai is asking the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-169	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You already know that in Hungary more than 45,000 people care for their children and their elderly relatives 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, without leave and no breaks. The Orbán government, so proud of its economic performance, can provide 52 thousand forints for this work. In Slovakia 120, in Romania 130 HUF, in Croatia 140 thousand HUF is the care fee, and there this work is recognised as an employment relationship because home care is a job. The growing social movement and opposition parties, including Dialogue, continue to demand that the monthly subsidy amount be increased by HUF 50,000 in each category. The financial opportunity is given, and from now on it should not be a bulls credit, but action should be taken, it should have supported the budgetary amendment to the Dialogue and other parties, but it is still not too late. For its part, the Dialogue is committed to reducing injustices in Hungarian society, reducing increasing social inequalities. The most urgent is to help our fellow countrymen living in vulnerability, extreme poverty or with illness and disability, but it is equally important to raise the wages of underpaid workers or low pensions. [[18.00]] We reject the right-wing fidesz policy that favors the top 1 percent. The basis of our conviction and the social democracy programme is that we have to work for 99 percent, in the interest of 99 percent. We therefore urge the introduction of basic income and thus the increase in income below average, the real taxation of profits of giant companies or the tax on billionaires and fidesz oligarchs. But not just left-wing values, but common sense dictates that we find humane and economic solutions to social problems. Today, institutional placement of people with multiple injuries costs as much as the net of the minimum wage. In all respects, it is preferable for this amount to be spent by the State to ensure the care of patients at home. In the surrounding countries, household poverty is not reported financially if they are used by a persistent patient. In Hungary, however, it is fatal for a parent to be left alone with a seriously ill child. We demand material and social respect for people who care for their homes, the possibility of loving care for those who care for them. The basic condition of this is to ensure the proper financial background of care on the part of the State. Therefore, I ask you to answer the following questions specifically: when and how much will the care fee be raised, and when will home care be recognised as an employment relationship? Thank you for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-09-17-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. On the question of interpellation, Mr President, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-09-17-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're talking about the fact that the Dialogue Group is committed to the final issue of the care fee. That would be an honorable statement from you, but look around: if you consider it such an important question, why is there no one here from the Dialogue Group but you? If you are committed to the end, does that mean that you alone represent this case? There are quite a few of the pro-government factions here, and quite a few of us consider this issue important, just like the others. No one from your faction has come to the debate on this item but you. Honourable Congressman, He's asking if we're gonna raise it. The reason we have a more credible answer to that is if, let's say, you're asking the forces at your right hand, because we've been raising them for the past four years. In the past four years, we have raised the care fee, and we will increase it in the next four years. The credibility of this is given by the fact that there are already actions, concrete legislative amendments and budget surpluses. As has been said many times today, but I would be happy to repeat it to you: over the summer, we have consulted several organizations, perhaps a dozen organisations with whom we have discussed the issue of the care fee. As a result, there will be a complex, not only the rate of care fee, but a more complex presentation, which will be decided by the government during the autumn, and everyone will see and know how the rate of care fee will increase next year. It is also possible that the government will make not only one decision for several years, but it may decide for the next year. But in any case, during the fall, the decision is made on this matter. It is also important what you said that not only the care fee is relevant here, but also a benefit similar to that of a different relationship, a labour law relationship. That is why we introduced the pension surplus, the pension surplus of HUF 50,000, because obviously the family does not achieve such a high income, because one of the family members is usually at home with the child. That's what this surplus is for. That is why we introduced health insurance rights, which is why we introduced that the time spent on home care is considered a service period, so that the subsequent pension and other consequences are exactly similar to the time spent on home care compared to the time spent on employment. And I absolutely reject, honourable Member, that this amount would not have increased in the last four years. You know, in the last four years, from 2014 onwards, we have made a 63 percent increase in the case of people with the most serious health conditions, and we would like to continue this in the coming years. You said it wasn't for the giant companies. If there is a government that has tried to reduce the luxury profit of giant companies and give this money to Hungarian families, it is precisely the Fidesz-KDNP government. For whom have we taxed, and to whom have we given tax relief, honourable Member? We tax banks, insurance companies, tax large trade chains, tax energy companies and utility companies. That's how we started our administration. The way out of the economic crisis was supposed to be discovered, and the facts of the last eight years confirm that the large international companies also started paying taxes in Hungary. They've been suing, they've tried this in a lot of places, and they're still trying to do it. We offset this in the form of tax cuts on the other side of the budget, which we collected from the multinationals, for example, we gave to families in a family tax reduction. That is why next year's budget for family support is already estimated at more than HUF 2000 billion, while in 2010 the budget adopted at that time amounted to less than HUF 1000 billion. So what we have taken away from large international multi-company companies, we have not only been able to use it for the extra care fee, but also to reduce the tax burden on all Hungarian families and increase family support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to ask the Interpelling Congresswoman and Mr Bence of Tordai if they'll accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-09-17-173	Let's stick to the facts. You're taxing people. They increased income tax on small and medium-sized earners, and increased the burden on people, for example, through insurance taxes. And where you think that you've taxed the multi-enterprises, what happened is that the 19-percent tax rate has been reduced to a five-percent effective rate, and the banks have increased their extra profit to a historic peak of 700 billion. So much for that. So who you support instead of people, we can see very well. You serve the economic capital, you serve the top 1 percent, you don't get the 99 percent, you don't get the hardest ones in the line. I will accept your answer when you say on 30 November that you have the law adopted, and next year the care fee will be 50,000 forints higher. Until then, I can't accept the answer. Thank you.
u2018-09-17-174	Thank you very much. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That's why I'm asking the Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 30 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: what is the interest of the Sargentini report? It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The European Parliament intends to put Hungary on the bench of the accused in a new conceptual procedure. The Tavares report, which was completed in 2013, supported by the Hungarian left-wing MEPs, was nothing more than the revenge of the parties and their representatives supported by bankers and multinationals, which were triggered by the reduction of debts and the taxation of banks. The accusations in the report turned out to be completely unfounded and aimed exclusively at political and economic gain. Now, after five years, the MEP who prepared the report on Hungary again came out of the ranks of the extremely liberal green party. Of course, in this case, too, it is a vendetta in the robe of concern for the rule of law. The document was written with the sole intention of breaking Hungary's independent, sovereign immigration policy. Many of the issues in the report have already been protected by Hungary before the various international organisations and have been closed on the basis of mutual cooperation. The document also examines areas which are outside the competence of the European Union and should therefore not be the subject of the investigation. This is a gross violation of the fundamental values of national sovereignty by Mrs Sargentini. It is not enough that the report deals with issues that have already been closed and do not affect EU competence, but it does so accompanied by significant factual errors. He falsely claims that civil society organisations in Hungary are at risk of disproportionate and unnecessary interference with freedom of association, freedom of expression and non-discrimination. It also falsely claims that the powers of the Constitutional Court have been significantly reduced. From the above, it is clear to everyone that the goal is to break the will of Hungary and the Hungarian people only in order to facilitate immigration. On this basis, I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State how the government can defend the will of Hungarian people against the objective of unfair procedure. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2018-09-17-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Orbán's question will be from Mr Balázs State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-177	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The title of your interpellation concerned the interests of the Sargentini report. Today, we have talked a lot about the fact that this report serves a number of interests, but it certainly does not serve the interests of the Hungarian people. I would like to make an important supplement at this point. This report does not serve the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary, but does not serve the interests of the European people and the European Union, and I would like to support this with three statements. One, the first, is that, in our view, this report in itself undermines the concept of the rule of law. It undermines the concept of the rule of law that the European Parliament has voted on in the framework of a mechanism bearing the name. As previously mentioned, Article 354 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament are quite clear. It is quite clear that in the case of a qualified majority, residences should also be counted. The fact that this was not the case before is not how the European Parliament interpreted it, it does not mean anything, since it is an old principle that there is no right to injustice. The second is that this report undermines, in our view, another important European value, we call it freedom, because freedom is actually the concept of sovereignty. In the Treaty on European Union, there are not only the basic values set out in Article 2, but also the principles that the principle of non-interference, the principle of delegation of powers, proportionality, subsidiarity and the principle of loyal cooperation. These principles are undermined by this type of report, such a mechanism. Studies that have taken place following the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty and the launch of a similar mechanism to Poland should be looked at. This device is unfit for what it was designed to do. And the third is that this report also undermines democracy, because it is about trying to question values, it wants to question a Christian democratic policy which the Hungarian government, elected by the Hungarian people, shares and, in this sense, has the support of the Hungarian nation. Therefore, the report criticises patriotic education, promotes the idea of aid instead of work, or calls upon the institution of national consultation, while Emmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic, is free to launch a national consultation at European level. And that is the most serious question: the conclusion of this analysis is that this is not a mechanism of the rule of law, but, on the contrary, an institution undermining the rule of law, democracy and freedom. We therefore take the view that the Hungarian Government considers this report not to be adopted because of procedural irregularities, and that it will act against the report by all means. The government will decide, at today's meeting, what legal and/or political means it intends to take. If you want my personal opinion, Mr President, I say that there is no need to choose between legal and political instruments. Both instruments must be used, because this is absurd, unworthy of the European Union, and unless radical change occurs in the elections to the European Parliament next year, so that the forces supporting immigration will not finally become a minority in the European Parliament, then the mechanisms and procedures undermining democracy, freedom and the rule of law will continue to prevail, against which we would like to take action, and we ask for your support to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask Mr László Salacz about his reply if he will accept it.
u2018-09-17-179	Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer. It is clear that, contrary to the negative perception in the Sargentini report, the sole purpose of the new provisions is to ensure the transparency of organisations, for which similar models are present in several Member States, and even the Union itself has a transparency register. Contrary to the report, the Constitutional Court has been given new powers to initiate prior ex ante inspections of draft legislative acts and to strengthen the right to subsequent ex post legality checks, as in the German model. In the opinions of the Venice Commission, it identified a number of positive elements of the reform, such as provisions on budgetary guarantees. As a responsible Member, I would ask Mr State Secretary and the Hungarian Government to take all necessary steps to ensure that the Sargentini report no longer has an adverse impact on Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.Kásler crisis: Where is the head of the health portfolio after the first 100 days? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-181	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know which Secretary of State will give an answer, as Minister has repeatedly failed.
u2018-09-17-182	I'm sorry. Secretary of State Eszter Vitalos will answer.
u2018-09-17-183	We are constantly honoured by the fact that he is absent and does not answer important questions that, although every government has a 100-day grace period, so to speak, at the beginning of his administration, but that is far over with regard to the Ministry of Health and the new Minister for Health. We could safely say that during this 100-day period, for example, it would be okay not to be high on the situation, and instead of raising doctors' wages, it would raise the wages of its own video player, or we could say that the crisis surrounding the termination of hospital workers simply does not seem to be noticed. But this minister came from health care, and we are at the moment that the 100 days have passed, and he does not seem to notice the events that have taken place in the Honvéd Hospital, for example, in recent years. Because nothing else happened at the Honvéd Hospital than a medical shortage, a crisis in one of Budapest's emergency services, and, by the way, a well-known surgeon, who I think would be recognized in Hungary if he was awakened from his sleep. But you can say the lip problem, it just popped out right after. The intensive care unit couldn't function properly because the workers there had enough of the kind of job situation, the kind of work that they had to face. If you like, they voted for it and decided that they would no longer be able to handle the health care you created. And what do you say about this health care? They say that Hungarian health care is European and even world-class. Dear Secretary of State, Is this the European level of health care? But there is another crisis in health, it's a financial crisis, we've been talking less about it lately. Nearly HUF 50 billion is the financial crisis burden in health care that is now affecting hospitals, and in fact it is behind the crisis in emergency care, for example, that they are unable to finance the care properly, that they are unable to give the salary, the money on the machines properly, and that they cannot provide the patients with it. You could say that GP practices are also in crisis. You guys are playing tricks on numbers. Now it is said that you think that 6.5 percent is unfilled, but in fact, because of the elimination and merger of practices, 850,000 people now do not have a general practitioner in their own home, which is 8.5 percent of the practice. Dear Secretary of State, The situation is serious, and the Hungarian people are concerned about what is going on in 2018, in the 8th but slowly 9th year of your governance. It would be very good if the Secretary of State could answer instead of the Secretary of State himself, but I still have to ask you if the government has a plan to somehow save emergency care. Why is the number of unfilled practices growing in general and constantly? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Tell me, Madam Secretary, whether workers and patients are safe in Hungarian hospitals. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, we will hear the answer to the interpellation question from Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, My name is Eszter Destiny, and I salute you with great respect. And by the way, I find it extremely cynical that you are calling the government to account for the human resources situation in health care, while you were helping as many health workers as possible to leave the country in the framework of a family business. [[Moore, there are interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: that's not what we're talking about.]] Minister Kásler made it clear when he took office... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's gonna be hard.
u2018-09-17-186	Fellow Members! The secretary of state now responds, who has listened to the question of interpellation in a disciplined manner. Here you go, Madam Secretary, continue. I'll count the time. [[18.20]]
u2018-09-17-187	Thank you very much. Minister Kásler has already made clear what are the most important objectives in health at the time of his entry into office, and many important measures have already been taken in these areas. You must have been busy with Jobbik's internal problems, so you missed all of this. Minister, you promised me that the investigation of hospital infections is what you're going to do with your ministerial work. There was a package of measures in this case. This includes, on the one hand, measures that can be implemented next to and at management level in healthcare institutions and, on the other hand, new tasks at the national level of official supervision, strengthening its powers in terms of supervision and strategic management. As part of the implementation of the package of measures, a government regulation has already been issued clarifying the regulation of the system of county and district official controls related to infection control. The Minister also said that he paid particular attention to the development of national health programmes, in which national institutions would be involved. The five national programmes for the framework of the public health programme have already been completed with the assistance of the national institutions. The national public health programme may be presented to the government this year. The Parliament has already adopted the government budget for 19 in this new term, which provides more money for health expenditure than ever before. The program, Healthy Budapest, will continue. Next year's budget will provide HUF 41.9 billion for the development of the Budapest Healthy Program. The purchase of medical technology equipment in hospitals will continue in 2018 for nearly HUF 3 billion and the provision of IT tools will continue for HUF 340 million. The new work clothes of the paramedics have begun to be secured and distributed. The government spent 1.1 billion forints on these purchases. The purchase of ambulances continues. On 1 September, 21 new ambulances made for custom orders were delivered. Thanks to the government's decision, the funding framework for patient transport providers has increased by HUF 1 billion with HUF 1.25 billion more. On 31 July 2018, the Health Management and Institutional Supervision Cabinet was established, which is responsible, inter alia, for the economic, efficient and efficient operation of healthcare institutions. As regards the hospitals mentioned by you, neither the emergency center of the Honvéd Hospital nor the lips of the Hungarian Imre Hospital have been mass termination [[Lajos Rig: Only four left the ICU!]] Both hospitals are able to perform their professional tasks at a high level. As regards the basic supply, I would like to point out that there is no basic supply area in Hungary which is not covered. Compared to 2010, the government already provided 74 percent more money to support the basic supply in 2018, in the framework of the practice competitions, it helps to load and purchase GP practices by millions of HUF each. So far, thanks to the effectiveness of the applications, we have provided dental care for 573 thousand residents as well as 175 thousand inhabitants. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-188	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask the Member if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-189	I don't accept the answer. Let me say that there must be some confusion in the force, Madam Secretary, because I would like to quote a statement from Parliament today. You talk about working in the West as if it were a sin. You seem to have missed what Viktor Orbán said, and you are now full of steam, if you like, attacking all those doctors who left because you were unable to pay normal wages. I wouldn't take a million-dollar salary as Secretary of State to insult these doctors because they had to leave because you didn't pay enough. [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] But let me tell you one more thing. (Moraj in the pro-government ranks.) I was trying to gather for Minister Kasler what he had done for health care in his hundred days. I've collected it, I'll help you, Madam Secretary, that's four blank pages. That's what he's come up with. That's how much the minister gave him. In fact, you can see from your response that you consider health care or education [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They're saying that the state is fine, and compared to that, they're sending their children to private institutions for millions of dollars. Do you heal in private institutions, or do you choose public health? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the Member did not accept the reply of the Secretary of State, so I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the Parliamentary Secretary-General's reply was adopted by 113 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 1 vote in favour. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What does the Government do to boost research and development? It's an address. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Technological progress doesn't stop. We have entered the era of the fourth industrial revolution, after steam, electricity and electronics, Industry 4.0 provides an opportunity for Hungary to be among the five most livable countries in Europe by 2030. Industry 4.0 brings together information technology and automated equipment more and more closely, as well as a fundamental change in production methods; production will be faster and more automatic. Smart machines organize and optimize their work processes, and production decisions are no longer based on personal considerations, but rather on the most relevant data of each workflow, precisely recorded by smart machines. Continuous learning required to optimize machine workflow is not limited to location. This, of course, requires not enough government will, a conscious R &amp; D strategy, including gross domestic product, increasing the amount to be spent on R &amp; D, continuing infrastructure development, and XXI. Developing a vocational training system that responds effectively to the challenges of the 20th century, strengthening Hungarian-owned companies to produce higher added value, increase their export capacity and productivity. Dear Secretary of State, In many other related areas, a comprehensive strategy and development, such as energy and climate policy, based on reliable nuclear power generation, are also essential, and climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector is necessary, including by increasing domestic sources of renewable energy and hydrocarbons. However, it is equally important to develop motorways and motorways that the XXI. 21st century Hungarian enterprises XXI. They can compete with foreign competitors with logistics opportunities of the century. Digitalisation has become a part of our daily life, and this must also be the guiding element of our thinking to preserve the country's competitiveness. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what measures Hungary will use to preserve and further increase its competitiveness. What does the government do to boost research and development? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-09-17-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds to your interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to achieve the national targets, the National Competitiveness Council discussed several economic development ideas this summer, along with the packages of proposals from the Central Bank and the Chamber of Industry, the economic policy strategy drawn up by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. The concept of economic development and competitiveness on the basis of these initiatives will be discussed by the government in the autumn. The conscious, well-structured use of a country's R &amp; D and innovation activities and the resources to this end, taking into account excellence and social usefulness, is crucial for competitiveness. This is why the independent ministry deals with research and scientific progress and progress. In the period after 2010, we have restored Hungary's macroeconomic stability. Growth is constant and business expectations are encouraging. Thanks to the results achieved, market participants are investing more and more in R &amp; D. Their translation reached HUF 272 billion in 2017. This was 53 percent of the total domestic expenditure. An increase in market development costs is expected in the future. However, the state remains the most important and increasingly generous supporter of Hungarian scientific research and innovation. This sector has taken a very important role in identifying priorities for the planning of EU operational programmes. [[18.30]] From the GINOP and VEKOP framework, a large number of R &amp; D projects, including work in many ways, can be implemented. In addition to EU support, the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund is also available, which funds, inter alia, basic programmes and university research. According to the government's intention and the strategic objective of the innovation portfolio, national R &amp; D expenditure will continue to increase in the coming years. Honourable Congressman, However, increasing resources alone is not enough, and we must also pay attention to using them responsibly and as efficiently as possible. This is also the goal of government measures to stimulate the innovation ecosystem. Let us therefore encourage close cooperation between universities, research institutes and stakeholders in the corporate sphere. Cooperation brings needs to a common denominator and combines resources. It can thus achieve results that individual actors would be unable to achieve separately. The higher education institutional excellence programme helped achieve this goal by HUF 15 billion in 2018. Similarly, the professional excellence and international competitiveness of higher education institutions are also important. The main objective is also to develop research infrastructures, improve public and market access, of course in order to work as efficiently as possible. Honourable Congressman, On the basis of what has been said, I trust that you will agree with me: the government will do more than ever by providing more and more stable resources and facilitating their rational and productive use, so that commitment to talent and science can be completed in Hungary as well as in the most competitive countries in Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-17-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has a vision to improve competitiveness. I think we all expect a lot from this Ministry. It is important to increase resources for research and development, but this should be done within a reasonable and targeted framework, as we have seen in recent years, so that this can continue. Once again, our aim is to make Hungary one of the five most livable countries in Europe by 2030, with the help of innovation. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-09-17-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title of "Access denied." Madam Secretary of State Eszter Vitalos will answer, but I'm only telling you that it won't be the same problem again as it was before. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor, please.
u2018-09-17-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The right to health care is a fundamental human right. In order for this right to prevail, like any other fundamental human right, it is necessary for legal entities to be able to exercise it. However, this encounters several obstacles in Hungary. Of the Visegrád countries, Hungary was the only country where the net public spending of medicines decreased compared to the 2010 situation, which means that Hungarians have to spend more on medicine in their own pocket today than before 2010. Another significant obstacle is the physical availability of different services, i.e. accessibility. When district offices grant authorisation to healthcare providers, direct access to public transport is not taken into account. This would not be a problem in itself, but district offices also act in a similar way for providers with territorial obligations. Getting to a healthcare service, or going to an emergency room, may extend by several hours in some areas compared to what has been normal. The third obstacle, Madam Secretary of State, which has already been mentioned by many people before me is that many doctors and nurses are missing from basic care, which we have not seen successful experiments to correct since 2010, and you have even increased this problem. There are 248 permanently unfilled dental and 334 permanently unfilled GP districts in Hungary, i.e. districts in which there have been no suitable specialists for more than 6 months. 85 percent of these districts have been abandoned because of their health policies; these doctors and nurses have mostly left because of themselves and disagreed with their health policies. The government and Viktor Orbán have a direct and personal responsibility for having the same shortage of dentists, general practitioners, nurses, doctors and nurses in Isaac, Ozdon, Marcali or Paks. You have a very big responsibility in this. Madam Secretary! I don't expect the same answer you gave Jobbik, and I'd like to ask you: when is your drug policy going to change? When will people pay less for the medicine than in 2010? Are you planning to reconfigure the current licensing system so that patients do not have to travel hours to get to the on-call service provider? Do you agree that if the coverage of primary care in Hungary is not improved in the short term, i.e. if new doctors and nurses are not introduced into the empty practices, the Hungarian care system will no longer be able to guarantee the right to health care? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So the health care system in Hungary could be a disaster. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-09-17-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I have said, the question asked by Mrs Eszter Vitalyos is answered by the Secretary of State. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You now stand in favour of patients' right to health care, but when they were on the government, more than HUF 600 billion were withdrawn from health care; they closed the children's hospital in Svábhegy, the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That was a mistake, now I see it!]] Szabolcs Street Hospital, Schöpf-Mere Hospital. 16,000 active beds were removed; 6,000 medical workers were dismissed; they also paid for health care, visits, and hospital daily allowances. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is that what the question was about?]] The Fidesz-KDNP government considers reducing the burden on the population as a priority. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is that what you're telling people who are in the hallway of the Honvéd Hospital?]] Drug financing measures introduced from autumn 2011 have reduced the prices of many medicines in recent years. Every six months, the health insurance company advertises competition between medicines with the same active substance, whose manufacturers compete with each other, but not knowing each other's prices, may submit a price reduction for their preparations under the so-called blind, in order to give patients access to the medicines they need at the best possible price. In the first full year of the blind, the patients were able to save HUF 7.5 billion, and this savings increased by HUF 2.5 billion in 2013, by HUF 2 billion in 2014, and further reductions in the patient burden were observed from the following years until today. For example, patients paid HUF 1700 for a monthly dose of one of the most commonly used cholesterol lowering products for cardiovascular diseases in 2009, so today they only have to pay HUF 185, i.e. the price of the medicine decreased by nearly 90 percent. In addition, there has been a steady increase in therapeutic options in the supply of medicinal products. As far as the basic supply is concerned, I would like to state that in my previous reply, there is no uncovered primary care area in Hungary; the provision of all unfilled areas has also been resolved by replacement. The government's primary objective remains to strengthen the health benefits most often used by the population and the basic care. Compared to 2010, the government already provided 74 percent more money to support the basic supply in 2018. From 2015 onwards, the support of general medical practices increased by HUF 130,000 to HUF 130,000 per month, with the result that every GP and GP practice with a territorial obligation will receive a higher remuneration of HUF 520,000 per month. Within the framework of the practice competitions, the government helps fill and purchase the general medical practices by millions of forints each. As a result, between 2014 and 2017, the number of GPs who won the settlement and awarded the grant contract was 142, the number of dentists was 37 and the amount of aid paid was more than HUF 3 billion. Between 2015 and 2017, 167 people exchanged praxis rights with the praxis right tender, and the amount of aid paid for this was over HUF 850 million. [[18.40]] In 2018, the government also announced the purchase of GP and GP and dental residency applications, with more than one billion forints available for this purpose. So far, thanks to the effectiveness of the applications, we have provided dental care for 573 thousand residents of the general practitioner, 175 thousand inhabitants. The Government of Hungary prioritises strengthening the provision of services close to the population, improving basic health care, strengthening the professional support system, making the course more attractive, which I think is all justified by our actions so far. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-200	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-201	Do you know, Madam Secretary, why the system still works? Because there are dedicated doctors, there are dedicated nurses, and the relatives of patients still keep this system alive. They pray in hospitals that they visit the sick every day, so that the relatives carry out tasks instead of nurses and doctors. They pray every day for patients to come in so that they can have a father who will paint the ward, pray that there will be a patient whose parents will be entrepreneurs and that they can buy TV in the employment hall or in the ward. They pray that a sick child or a sick person can be admitted to the hospital with a family member who can buy things. You know, Madam Secretary, this is not normal, because this system is not sustainable for a long time. And, you know, Madam Secretary, we are not paying social security to carry out the task that the government should ensure that health care can work with the right doctors, nurses and the right system. I can't accept it, Mr. President.
u2018-09-17-202	Thank you very much. As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask this House whether it will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 27 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre László, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why not speed up the reception of innovative medicines? It's an address. It concerns Mr Imre László and I would like to inform you that Mrs Eszter Vitályos, State Secretary, will also reply. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! Innovative medicinal products are accepted in the Czech Republic and Slovakia - Visegrád Four - 160-180 days, while in Hungary, on average, 690 days, but are known for several years, with 3-4 years in length. With a slight exaggeration, we can also say that the Hungarian health system saves so, because by the time this admission process is completed, the product will become generic and, as such, can be obtained at a significantly cheaper price. However, seriously, the loss of time is due to the fact that the admission procedure also means that, in case of a positive decision, for example, the use of these preparations should be made available to hospitals. However, this would further increase the obscenely called hospital debt due to the high price of innovative products. The reason for the lengthy admission process of innovative products is the same as that of hospital debts, namely that the budget is essentially under-funded by hospitals and health care. Health expenditure is increasingly passed on to patients by the budget, which can also be seen from the figures of the HCSO 2010-15, according to which household health expenditure increased by 27 per cent compared to 19 per cent of government health expenditure. Here too, however, the poor man's expensive shopping syndrome prevails. There's no money for more expensive drugs, so let's use the cheaper one, which is much less effective. Therefore, the patient will be cured over a longer period of time or may not heal or should be taken for the rest of his life instead of rapid healing. Accelerating the reception of innovative products would therefore be an investment from the budget that would not only lead to recovery but also to savings in the longer term. I ask the Secretary of State: how much would it cost each year to push down the admission procedure for innovative products to 150-200 days? Why is this investment not worth the Hungarian budget? Why is it more worthwhile to leave the patient for years, especially for the rest of his life, rather than make him able to work again in a relatively short period of time? What else needs to happen in order for the makers of the Hungarian budget to acknowledge that healthcare is a public service, which must be financed as public expenditure? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-09-17-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have said, the answer to the interpellation question raised by Mr Eszter Vitalyos will be given by the Secretary of State. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The fact that every year since 2010, as opposed to the period before 2010, the amount of expenditure on health has increased significantly has probably escaped the attention of the Member, so while in 2010, HUF 1208 billion was available to finance benefits in kind, this amount was HUF 1664 billion in 2018. I would also like to draw your attention in advance to the mistake you have made with regard to generic medicines. The use of generic medicines in the care of patients is not a deterioration in quality, since from the moment the patent protection for a given active substance expires, it is possible for other manufacturers to produce medicinal products containing that active substance. The equivalence of generic medicinal products with original medicinal products is established by the authorisation authority. With generic medicines on the market, as a result of higher volumes and significantly lower prices, much more patients have access to therapies of the same value as original medicines. The insurance company will be able to use the additional source to receive new medicines. In the current funding system, all Hungarian patients have access to the most effective medicines for their treatment. Mr President, in this context, Mr President, you have confused the financing of the hospital's budget for medicines used at the time of hospitalisation with the financing of medicines provided in kind for a fee or no fee. Hospital liability can only be increased by medicinal products from the hospital's own budget, accounting for 15-17 percent of total pharmaceutical expenditure. The range of inpatient care products used in the hospital is extremely wide and hospitals can choose the medicines they want to use themselves. I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that, in recent years, the government has taken a number of steps to ensure high quality care in healthcare. There has been a continuous increase in therapeutic options in the supply of medicinal products. Several treatment areas have been included in the support system for new medicines, with which the treatment of patients has become more extensive. For example, 300 products were accepted in 2015, 248 in 2016 and 98 new products last year. As of 2012, a new financing technique, called fixed funding, has been introduced, resulting in patients getting access to the necessary therapies free of charge in the supply centres. Over the last eight years, the amount spent on on oncological medicines from the Health Insurance Fund has nearly doubled. In 2010 he paid HUF 57 billion and HUF 97.8 billion already in 2017 to the National Health Insurance Fund Manager for this patient group. Finally, it is important to note that, in recent years, NEAK has prepared, in cooperation with the Ministry of Human Resources State Secretary for Health and with the Ministry of Finance, the reception of new modern medicines. These include lung cancers, myeloma, medicines to treat severe inflammatory diseases. [[18.50]] I would add that the registration procedure for innovative preparations and the procedure for inclusion in the aid should not take place at the same time. In order to establish a decision on inclusion in the aid, it is necessary to lay down a technical framework for the support, which requires the involvement of competent medical departments and health professionals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-206	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mr Imre László if he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-207	Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to accept that answer. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention - if you pay attention to me - to the fact that the professor, university professor who worked at the OECD headquarters for four years, who might be good at things, calculated precisely that you are not using it in real terms, comparing data at current prices - and the budget for health in 2006 was greater in purchasing value, more than the planned 2019 budget. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] Please discuss this and put this matter in its place. I would also like to say that we are talking about the social security support for some 70 innovative medicines and therapies that help people with cancer and cardiovascular diseases to heal or improve their life prospects. Let us also remember that only 40 percent of the new medicines registered by the European Medicines Agency have reached our country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And I would also like to tell you that when there are money for heated stadiums, when they are building much bigger stadiums than there would be room for the population of the area when we spend hundreds of billions on visual sports, we would need 30-40 billion forints to catch up only to the level of the Visegrád Four. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Mr. President! How long was the answer?]]
u2018-09-17-208	Congressman! I'm sorry to interrupt, but time's up for a minute. I gave you 40 seconds. With all due respect, I'm asking you if you'll accept the answer.
u2018-09-17-209	Undoubtedly, and I apologize, Madam Secretary of State has spoken longer than the time available. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-210	Congressman! I'm sorry. Assuming it's a bigger than zero, based on this basic position, the relationship between 4 seconds and 40 seconds will be determined, please. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. Congressman did not accept Mrs Secretary of State's reply. I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliamentary Secretary of State accepted the reply by 110 votes in favour, 27 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Why is the report protecting a convicted immigrant? It's an address. Congressman Peter Agh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For many years, Hungary has been making very serious efforts to protect the borders of our country and the Schengen area. No one can get the results of this hard and persistent work away from us, because, unlike many other countries in Europe, we Hungarians have managed to defend the borders of our country and have managed to contain the entry of another 100,000 illegal immigrants targeting the Balkan route. However, not everyone could rejoice at our successes. From the outset, the members of the Soros Empire have done everything to stop, but rather to facilitate illegal immigration in all areas of life. Information booklets, mobile apps, forums, maps, rescue ships and volunteers calling themselves civilians, thousands of people have worked to ensure that George Soros's migrant-friendly policy is effective. Dear Secretary of State, The Sargentini report, which tries to embarrass our country at every front, even at the cost of pure lies, is another moment in the advertisement of this anti-European and anti-Christian idea. The openly pro-immigration politicians in Brussels and the Soros György civil society organisations wrote in their report that they could make a kind of revenge against our country because we Hungarians refused to submit to the Soros network's ideal system. One remarkable and absurd part of Judith Sargentini's report is the case of Ahmed H., who attacked the police and encouraged his associates to commit acts of violence, not to mention acts of terrorism. The report paints a picture of this illegal immigrant as if Ahmed H. was trying to cross the state border peacefully with his family, holding his documents. On the other hand, we all know what really happened in September 2015 on that particular day in Röszke. Dear Secretary of State, What is this if it is not an open and clear attack on Hungary and the Hungarian people? How can a report based on lies and deliberate deception be placed on the table of the European Union, which does not, by the way, call into question the independence of Hungary's court and give a bad light to the struggling work of the people who defended Hungary's state border at the cost of their own physical integrity? Why would the report even protect a convicted immigrant? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the interpellation question of the Member from Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-213	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out that, in the Sargentini report, a conceptual procedure is taking place against Hungary. For us, the protection and security of Hungary and the Hungarian people are always the first, which is precisely why the decision of the European Parliament last Wednesday to adopt the Sargentini report is unacceptable and shameful. It is nothing more than the petty revenge of pro-immigration political forces against Hungary and the Hungarian people. Among other things, the report includes strict immigration rules, the Stop Soros package, and our exclusion from the quota system, and the case of Ahmed H., mentioned by the Member. Who is Ahmed H.? Ahmed H. is a Syrian national who was guilty of the crime of terrorism and the illegal crossing of the border seal as a participant in a mass riot on 16 September 2015 by the Szeged Tribunal; according to the facts obtained from press reports, Ahmed H. has harassed immigrants gathered at the border via megaphone, shaking the cordon to throw the police in line, forcing the police to let the crowd gathered on the Serbian side of the closed border into Hungary. In addition, it should be pointed out that Ahmed H.'s case, which was accused of acts at the border crossing of Röszke, has not yet been finalised and that the principle of separation of powers would be violated if the Government intervened in any way in the proceedings. Returning to the report of classified lies, which was supposedly drawn up by people who are unaware of the fundamental facts, no official delegation was sent to Hungary during the compilation of the 37 serious factual errors, and the truth is that Judith Sargentini never once consulted the Hungarian government. The report is a conscious deception and attempt to manipulate the mouth of George Soros's organizations and media. The Government's rebuttal was factually summarised in a 108-page dossier which was forwarded to MEPs, but unfortunately the facts were completely ignored. Last Wednesday, the European Parliament adopted the special report on the rule of law in Hungary. The pro-immigration people have done everything in their power to create a situation that is favourable to them. They weren't afraid of anything, so they weren't afraid of breaking the voting rules. In order to provide full information to Hungarian citizens, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the adoption of this report in the European Parliament is legally invalid, because they have managed to achieve a two-thirds majority only in violation of the voting rules. [[19.00]] The Lisbon Treaty is clear. Two thirds of the votes cast would have been necessary for the adoption of the report, i.e. the votes remaining should have been taken into account, and therefore the necessary majority would not have been available. The Sargentini report applies double standards and lacks any respect for the Hungarian people, abuses power and goes beyond powers. All this is offensive and unacceptable to the Hungarian people. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate and vote of the Sargentini report in the European Parliament, it has been shown once again that the opposition cannot be expected to defend its own country. I would like to remind you that last Wednesday, MEPs from MSZP, DK and dialogue voted shamefully in favour of the report against our country. Hungary still does not give in to external pressure, as we are obliged by the Hungarian people's opinion in the parliamentary elections, in the referendum and in the national consultation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Mr Péter Ágh if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-215	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for pointing out in your reply that the Sargentini report is, in fact, a conceptual procedure that clearly wants revenge in Hungary, and that this report wants to make accusations about the rule of law. Remember, in the European Parliament, how the Members who adopted this report celebrated the celebration of Sargentini. Where were these Members then - just remember, by the way of today, now is the anniversary of the publication of Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech in the autumn, and we know what followed in Budapest - where were these European politicians then when, in fact, they should have acted on the situation of the Hungarian rule of law under the Gyurcsány government? Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, I accept your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-09-17-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the leader of the Jobbik faction, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: It's an address. Mr. Fraction Manager, I would like to inform you that Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer you. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. In recent months, it has become certain that the Hungarian National Trade House, once announced as a huge innovation and regarded as a symbol of the Eastern and Southern opening, will close down and the current form will no longer work. Another communication balloon burst out, we could swoop down the typically completely unconventional and dilettantly organized network, if the background of the case weren't even stranger than the surface. First, however, let us review some of the important episodes of the trading house's activities. The company established in 2012 generated a loss of 9.5 billion in the first three years, and already generated 5.6 billion in 2016 from HUF 9.1 billion in revenue, while maintaining its offices consumed approximately HUF 600 million in public money. Unfortunately, there was little business opportunity for all of this. Adnan Polat is owned by a Turkish billionaire and is also associated with István Tiborcz ALX Magyar-Török Kft. For example, between 2013 and 2016, he could not conduct any business. We must say that investments in the most expensive trading houses have, to say the least, not returned to Hungarian taxpayers. Of course, Tibor Kuna, famous migration expert György Nógrádi or Zaid Naffa, who has been trading with Ghaith Pharaon, may see this differently. Even more mysterious is the case of the Moscow Chamber of Commerce, which Minister Szijjártó also called an important pillar of Hungarian-Russian relations, and after the Quaestor scandal it suddenly turned out that there was no branch of the National Trade House. It is regrettable that in the Eastern opening, once promoted by Jobbik as a rational vision, based on national interests, the government saw only another tap, and not only did it not build our relations to the east and to the south, but it has even downed our country. However, everything is still not over, as the newspapers say that the closing Hungarian National Trading House Zrt. After the closure of billions of branches, merged with its subsidiary, HEPA continues its activities under the name of the Hungarian Export Development Agency. This will be led by Gábor Ligetfalvi, who is also the head of MKB's venture capital fund management company Zrt. linked to Lőrinc Mészáros. Dear Secretary of State, is it expected that after the restructuring the dilettant spending of money and the payment of the buddies' circles will continue? Are there professional arguments or the infighting of the Fidesz Moonyard behind this change? Does HEPA plan to deal with people at national security risk? Can we consider the new leader linked to Lőrinc Mészáros as a guarantee that they will be able to pump more money out of the smaller network? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the question raised by Mr Fraction Manager. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I envy this boundless confidence, I'll tell you the truth. How did you put it? Dilettically and unconventionally organized. I thought you were talking about your own party. I don't want to open such sensitive questions at this late hour, but the Jobbik is organized dilettically and unconventionally, which you are currently leading, a living person doesn't know who you have with whom. Now, as far as the results of the foreign trade are concerned... [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] As far as the external economic results are concerned, I am pleased to inform you that every year, every foreign economic record is broken. There are two branches of this, one of which is the export you mentioned. Last year, for the first time, Hungarian exports exceeded EUR 100 billion, and we are talking about the livelihood and sure existence of Hungarian families. What is the other aspect of our external economic activity is the import of investments into Hungary. There were 96 investments in the country last year through our investment agency. The value of these is EUR 3.5 billion and 17 000 jobs have been created. In the first half of this year, 46 investments have already been decided, worth EUR 2 billion and will create around 7,000 jobs, so we have a good hope of breaking last year's records as well. I would also like to inform the honourable Head of Group that, in the heat of the summer, Hungary was the seventh most popular investment site in the world last year, in 2017. We read this from the ranking of the American multinational IBM. The resulting jobs have been projected to one million people, and this is how the Hungarian economic environment and Hungary are ranked 7th in the world ranking. In terms of high added value jobs, we are also at the forefront, we are in 16th place. Of course, there was much to be done for these. The right economic environment had to be created, it is known that Hungary has one of the lowest personal income tax rates in Europe today, the lowest corporate tax, and the social contribution tax is constantly falling. Now, as far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, I must say, Your Honour, that you are saying exactly the same thing that Balliberal media describe. Now, either that means that you're still working closely together, or that means something else, but I urge you not to find out about these media. You basically misunderstand what is happening, and I didn't say it very well at the time: the trading house and the Hungarian export promotion system are performing a public service, the costs of which are borne, and the revenues are generated by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a public service that we don't spend the most on in the region, by the way. As far as the rest of your speech is concerned, I have to say, unfortunately, that the political activity of the Hungarian opposition is roughly exhausted by the fact that they have learned three names and are repeating them in alternate order. [[Gergely Farkas: Soros, Soros, Soros!]] The voters pretty much told us what they were thinking in the election. That's why they don't support you, because they think it's insufficient. Meanwhile, the Hungarian foreign economy will and will continue to produce results, as I said: again this year we have every chance of breaking records, creating new jobs, supporting the growth of the Hungarian economy from the external economic side, so that every Hungarian can take a step forward from time to time. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2018-09-17-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-221	Dear Secretary of State, It's a genre called interpellation, and it's written in writing a week before it's said, and you have an entire state apparatus at your disposal to get a decent answer out of you. If you can afford it personally, I think you should either go back to being a sports reporter or some run team, your minister will probably be able to arrange this for you, but you haven't answered my questions. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are not only incompetent, but...]] So with this arrogance, he only goes to Parliament during an Orbán government, but he wouldn't make it anywhere else. I'd like to ask you that I'll run over this question again, and then you'll get yourself better. [[István Szilárd Németh: Who is arrogant?]] I'm asking specific questions here. You came to me with export numbers, which have little to do with the activities of Hungarian trading houses, because you probably shouldn't have closed them all after spending that amount of money. I would like to point out once again that the AXL trading house in Turkey has failed to produce any results, for example, not one in three years. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So be nice next time, give me some real answers. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks was KO!]]
u2018-09-17-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the Head of the Group did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 26 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. How long will the Serbian-Hungarian relationship at the historic summit be more important and, in fact, to serve Viktor Orbán's European ambitions than the determined, consistent protection of the Southern Hungarians? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Secretary Menczer will answer. Here you go.
u2018-09-17-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Vojvodina Parliament on 19 June, it was decided that on 25 November, the anniversary of the separation of the southern region and the minorityisation of the Hungarian community living in the land of its ancestors for a thousand years will be a holiday in the province. In fact, the same parliamentary decision kicked another one into the Hungarians: it made 1 December, the day of the separation of Transylvania, a feast of Vojvodina at the request of the Romanians in Serbia. We may not be surprised at the Serbian-Romanian anti-Hungarian alliance, but I am deeply appalled that the decision of the latest-day Kisantant was proudly approved by the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, the local branch organization of Fidesz, which is the first and even the only representative of the Hungarian community; yes, proudly, as the party president István Pásztor announced the support of the decision to undermine Hungary before the vote. Minister Péter Szijjártó said on several occasions that if the southern Hungarians are violated by some kind of legal violation, the VMSZ will signal it to you. I hope, after this shameful decision, it is clear to you that your southern vassal is not a sign, but he is also a partner in making anti-Hungarian decisions. In light of this, it is clear why the VMSZ did not inform you of what the Democratic Community of Hungarian Vojvodina and the Hungarian Movement have already spoken about several times and in time: the Serbian power is preparing to severely reduce the powers of the Hungarian National Council. According to the law adopted at the beginning of the summer, MNT was deprived of its right of agreement in all areas, but even the remaining powers of opinion have narrowed down to certain areas, restricting the rights of language use and the scope of organisations with which the national councils can establish cooperation and the elimination of Hungarian cultural autonomy have been voted by the representatives of the VMSZ in Belgrade. However, according to the local vassals of Fidesz, it is certainly not a problem that thousands of Gypsies of Kosmet, Muslim, Albanian-speaking, are being introduced into the settlements of the Hungarian inhabitants of southern Hungary, including Martonos, Kishegyes and the villages of the sporadic treatment. But in contrast to the violent change in ethnic relations, the Hungarian government, which has conducted anti-immigration propaganda at European level, has so far not had a single word to say. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State what the government's opinion is about another shameful decision by the VMSZ and the Serbian power to make the break-up of the South country a holiday day. Did the VMSZ decide on Budapest's suggestion of yes, as many suspect and suspect? Why didn't the government object when the Serbian power planned to reduce the powers of national councils? Why didn't you protest the adoption of the relevant law? Finally, why does the government not object to the introductions of Kosovan Gypsy into the Hungarian villages in southern Hungary, and this is a violent change in ethnic relations? Please, Mr. Secretary, to answer my questions against the previous questions, we have heard the story of Zoltán Szotyori-Lazár a few times. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Szávay said his interpellation question, as I said, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer answers. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Let's hear the sports news! György Szilágyi: Sports News.]]
u2018-09-17-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm honoured that the entire Jobbik faction is monitoring my work, it's excellent, I'm glad that it stays that way in the future. Honourable Congressman, With regard to your question, I would like to assure you that Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin and abroad do not celebrate the consequences of the Trianon decision, nor do they celebrate the creation of new state formations anywhere. In relation to the decision in question, taking into account the proportions of the Parliament of Vojvodina, the VMSZ has a limited margin of manoeuvre, but it shows that in the final decision, in which the significant days of Vojvodina were determined, national minorities in Vojvodina could also determine a holiday, which is 20 August in the case of Hungarians in Vojvodina. There are few countries or regions where we managed to achieve that the Hungarian national holiday is also an official holiday. So it is practical to say that everyone has proposed that the majority and the minority have mutually respected each other's proposals. The VMSZ does not consider 25 November to be the day to be celebrated, but since the Serbian majority respects the Hungarian national holidays, Hungarian national symbols, the representatives of the local Hungarian community also respect the days that are important to the majority. The VMSZ is interested in constructive cooperation in Vojvodina, but other organisations create destructive political conflicts. As far as the question of the integration of the Kosovo Roma into Vojvodina is concerned, I can inform the honourable Member that the Hungarian Government is of course following what is going on, and we are in constant contact with the Association of Hungarian Vojvodina. We agree on diplomatic steps on this issue and keep it on the agenda for all bilateral forums. However, I would also like to assure you that there is a variety of information on this issue, and not all of them are the same on this issue. We are informed from all sources, of course we consider the issue important, and we also deal with it in international bilateral and other forums. In the case of the law on the national councils of national minorities, I can inform you, as I am sure you know, that the law was adopted by the Serbian Parliament, but the proposals of the Hungarian National Council were taken into account in the decision. As a result, I am able to inform you that there has been no withdrawal in the rights of minorities acquired previously, and that legitimate representatives of Hungarians in Vojvodina will continue to have a say in the operation of their educational, cultural and information institutions, i.e. they will continue to have cultural autonomy. In view of the criticism of the VMSZ in his speech, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the VMSZ obtains its legitimacy not from cooperation with the Hungarian government, but from this his legitimacy does not originate, but from the fact that the Hungarian voters in Vojvodina made the party a legitimate representative of Hungarians in Vojvodina in the elections to the Serbian Parliament, the provincial and the local government. As regards the development of Hungarian-Serbian relations, I would like to inform you that the Hungarian government's priority is to develop Hungarian-Serbian relations and, of course, to preserve and improve the situation of Hungarians in Vojvodina. After long and persistent work, it was possible to achieve the highest recognition in Serbia of the atrocities committed against the Hungarians in Vojvodina in 1944 and 1945, which the two Presidents remembered together. In recent years there has been no registration of an anti-Hungarian incident, and this is also an important result compared to the previous situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.20]]
u2018-09-17-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman István Szávay if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-09-17-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You've managed to surprise me, but thank you very much for giving me meaningful answers to the questions I've raised. It would be nice if this happened again. Very quickly: I am very pleased that the Hungarian government is monitoring the introduction of Gypsies in Kosovo into the Hungarian villages. My question was why they didn't object to it. Why do you consider it good and right to upset the ethnic balance of Hungarian populated settlements with alien people and their families from a foreign cultural circle? You're negotiating with the IRS because they think he's legit. But not only does the VMSZ have legitimacy, there are still several party systems in the South, although I'm guessing you don't necessarily like it, but for now, that's the situation, even there and here. Has there been no withdrawal in minority law? Mr. Secretary, that is simply not true. So what you're saying is not true. Once again, the Hungarian National Council has been deprived of all its rights of agreement, and so far its rights of agreement have been degraded into mere powers of opinion by the law which your allies voted for. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 23 against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 19:22. Interpellations are over. We're taking a two-minute break so that those who leave can do it without delay. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For a post-meeting speech from the LMP Group, why is the implementation of the asbestos removal programme not progressing? Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main criteria of effective and responsible policy is that it recognises and moves forward the issues that are most important for the common good, even if the problems or results occur not only in the four years of an election cycle, but in the longer term. As a matter of fact, the Fidesz government is flawed by the fact that the three consecutive cycles of its governance seem to be little to notice that thousands of families and workers' health are directly threatened by asbestos previously installed in buildings. Microscopic fibers of asbestos, such as the pollination of ageing insulation, enter the lungs inhaling them, where they cannot break down, break down, and cause severe respiratory diseases, conjunctival overgrowth, lung tissue scarring, asbestososis, pleuropneumonia and lung cancer. These diseases can linger for years and endangerment does not decrease as time progresses, but increases. The asbestos-containing materials used in avuló buildings, which have been used in public and residential buildings, schools, kindergartens, commercial buildings or, for example, in the National Széchényi Library since the 1940s, have not only affected the people who used the buildings so far, but also the generations that are growing up. A well-known case of asbestos was launched in Hungary - the Heves County Szőrinc and Zagyvasántó case - where, despite the accelerated procedure, none of the applicants lived to judge because they died of asbestos-induced diseases. Potential victims live among us, as asbestos use was widespread in buildings and renovations built between 1970 and 1990. In particular, it was used by the Győr House Factory, for example, in the panel houses of Győr, Sopron, Komárom, Tatabánya, Nyergesújfalu, as a doorway, in basement car storage rooms, as insulation and in public utility channels that pass through apartments. It is no coincidence that the survey of asbestos - contaminated buildings began in the 1990s. According to a summary of asbestos residential buildings surveyed until 2002, the problem involves more than 20,000 apartments and some 150-170 thousand square meters of surface should be freed from asbestos. Taking into account other buildings - hospitals, kindergartens, schools, hotels - the built-in surface is estimated at some 400 to 450 thousand square meters at national level. Following the survey, a national programme for asbestos removal was launched, but the implementation of the programme was subsequently interrupted. For years, the LMP has been calling on the government to take the necessary steps. We're still doing it the same way. The LMP calls for rapid progress in three areas. Firstly, given that a national survey was carried out in the 1990s on behalf of wallets responsible for environmental protection and health in areas contaminated with asbestos, and that in more than two decades since then only a fraction of the discharge has been carried out, we consider it necessary that a full national survey be carried out as soon as possible on both residential buildings and public institutions and other public facilities. On this basis, the Government should draw up an asbestos removal programme for which funds should be provided in the budget. To this end, help ensure technical conditions and construction capacities. The health status of the affected population should be monitored on an ongoing basis, given that the carcinogenic potential of these substances may persist for up to 15 years. That way, we can give you a chance to treat you effectively. Finally, it is very important to establish sites for safe disposal and disposal from all settlements. Do not punish those who are legally seeking to get rid of some seriously harmful asbestos-containing construction waste. The government should ensure that waste is disposed of in an affordable and secure way. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an important and serious problem, the solution of which cannot be delayed. And I'm really sorry that I'm not gonna get an answer to that right now. I will also address a written question to the competent ministry.
u2018-09-17-230	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. He also applied for a post-meeting speech. Double Standard: Fidesz-KDNP did not support a united response to sexual harassment in the European Union! Then how is it, ladies, gentlemen? Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, can only express my regret and outrage that we are not worthy of the ruling party to respond to any of the agendas that have been put forward. We talked about a lot of things that took place in the European Union, in Strasbourg, last week, but there was another shameful vote that Fidesz does not consider to be, and did not go mad here within the walls of Parliament. [[19.30]] On Friday, there was a report, which was voted by a large majority in the European Union, but not by the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP. This report included a proposal against intimidation and sexual harassment in the workplace, public space and political life. You, my dear gentlemen, many times in the media, last week, your fellow Member demanded chemical castration, but when a proposal should be adopted in the European Union, in Strasbourg, where they could speak with one voice against these harassments, crimes, they vote no or they do not vote for it outside. They are furious at home when legal action can be taken, but they are deeply silent about the fact that these amendments, these proposals, are not being voted on. This proposal states that about 90 percent of victims of sexual harassment are women. 55 percent of women in Europe have been sexually harassed, and 32 percent of the victims have claimed that the unsub was a superior, colleague, or client, i.e. harassment in the workplace. However, the announcement often fails, in which there is a small social awareness of the problem, shame, stigma, fear of dismissal, difficulty of proof, insufficient channels for notification and protection of victims, and, last but not least, the habit of violence. The report also mentions the increased presence of intimidation and sexual harassment in virtual space, because it will enable perpetrators to feel safe hiding behind anonymity. Sexual and psychological harassment affects victims and perpetrators of all ages, qualifications, cultural backgrounds, and physical, sexual, emotional, and psychological consequences for the victim. The document states that women's legitimacy in the political sphere is still being questioned and that women are victims of stereotypes that discourage political involvement. In the workplace, harassment can only be prevented if both private and public companies develop a culture in which women are treated as equals and workers treat each other with respect. This report also states that in many countries they are still unwilling to ratify the Istanbul Convention, which also affects our country, because we have been calling on the opposition to take serious action in this regard for years. Once again, a woman dies every week as a result of domestic violence, and a child loses his life every month. It's not usually done by strangers, fathers, family members, friends, acquaintances. I think it is possible for you to play the game of running madly into the media and saying that you are protecting us Hungarian women because of the danger we are facing. You know, these crimes are committed by Hungarian men against Hungarian women and Hungarian children. I think that, after what happened last Friday in Strasbourg, you have no right to say once again that we will be protected by the government, you, our fellow men and men. I think it must be said in Parliament's walls that there is something to be ashamed of. The only way to achieve it is to speak not only in communication but also in public media day after day, but also to make sure that this problem is brought to the surface. 'Cause here's another piece of information, Mr. President: there are 25 undiscovered cases in each case. 25 unexplored! We're talking about a much bigger problem than you'd ever think of inside these walls. I just ask the government to reconsider what happened last week in Strasbourg, and I ask you not to say it again that you want to protect us Hungarian women. Thank you very much, we don't want any of this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-09-17-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In response to the speech on the employment of Roma musicians, Félix Farkas is a Roma minority advocate. I give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-233	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, allow me to congratulate Zoltán Mága violinist on the award of the Hungarian Medal of Merit awarded on 17 August 2018. The Minister and Professor of the Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Office Dr. Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, presented a state award, while acknowledging the musical work of artist Zoltán Mága, certainly also speaks of the attitude that the artist is taking in his charitable activities for disadvantaged families. I also think that after the fire in Nagydobrony Zoltán Mága acted immediately, and according to the press information published, he provided support for the prayer house and the nearby kindergarten. I have also spoken on this subject here in Parliament. But a medal like that, I think it's about something else. About the fact that the Hungarian song, together with the gypsy music genre, is not from the loft, not from the museum, Hungarian and Gypsy music is an outstanding national value, our cultural heritage, and an indisputable part of Hungarian culture. This was also recognised by Imre Kerényi, who, unfortunately, died on August 11, 2018, God grant him eternal rest. With his departure not only an excellent director, colour director, university professor, politician, publicist, but also the Prime Minister's representative who said that in recent decades Gypsy music has suffered a kind of loss of value, and, if necessary, it is necessary by state means to help the genre flourish again. In 2017 Imre Kerényi launched the "Musikáló Budapest" competition to support and promote the tradition of gypsy music in the restaurant. That year, 12 restaurants in Budapest were given the opportunity to engage in Gypsy Orchestras with 4-7 members from 20 May to 20 August with state support. In 2018, the program was extended to the national level, and it was no longer published with the title "Muzsikáló Budapest" but with the title "Muzsikó Magyarország". Due to the large number of applications received, Hungary's Government provided support for 25 locations in Budapest and 50 rural locations in 2018 instead of the 8 locations originally planned for the call for proposals in Budapest and 8 rural areas. As with the conditions set out in 2017, we can be grateful to the current government and Imre Kerényi because the figures show that there is a demand for Gypsy music in Hungary. So please consider the possibility of hiring gypsy musicians with state support not only in seasonal and not only in a limited number of restaurants. In addition to the increasing turnover of restaurants and the expected prosperity of tourism, the continuation and perpetuation of our cultural heritage also requires the extension of the programme. I, as a Roma minority advocate, meet every day with talented, yet lost gypsy musicians whose lives are music and entertaining others. Unfortunately, however, they maintain themselves and their families from a different kind of work. By encouraging and supporting the work in this way, hundreds of qualified musicians in their own profession would be solved. Not to mention the cultural value that can be achieved through the supply of gypsy youth. The Hungarian song and Gypsy music are unmistakably Hungarian. Let us keep alive the tradition of this community-creating music, because this virtuosity, this fire-cracking music, this way of life, the Gypsy fire may not have inspired poets like Mihály Vörösmarty or Mihály Babits by accident. I conclude with the thought of Zoltán Kodály: you can live without music, you can also lead through the desert; but we want you to walk the path of your life, not as if you were passing through deserts, but in flowery meadows. I wish all of us good work for the autumn 2018 session. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[19.40]]
u2018-09-17-234	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, What's under the Christmas tree? Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You might think where Christmas is, it's three months from now, but if you look at the first quarter, that's six months ago. I believe that most of us have received an invoice for waste management and, of course, a cash transfer order related to it, on which we can pay the service that we have used. Whatever we're looking for, we're waiting for the mailman to get these checks, he won't do it. And why don't you do it? This is a very big question, and I wanted to look into it. And it's a very topical question, even though we think it's good for the public to pay for it later, it's a loan from the state, but it's got a very big question mark in it. The first thing we need to look at is that when the waste management law changed and a so-called kukahending, NHKV Zrt. has received the task of coordinating waste shipments in Hungary and coordinating waste-related tasks. The system started - it would have started, as we can see from the 2016 report that 74 public service providers completed this task in the framework of wage billing in the first year and sent invoices to the public. He did this anyway, too late, but he tried less slippery than these six months, to hold. I would also have looked for 2017 data, but unfortunately, we are here on 17 September 2018, and NHKV Zrt has not been published until today. The 2017 report, the deadline for which - I believe it applies to all enterprises - was 31 May 2018. It's just a short comment. So I would have looked to see if the billing would continue to be in the form of a wage bill, or if NHKV Zrt. had already done so. Do it. And yes, I do know - not from the report - that NHKV Zrt. Its task has already been, since HUF 415 million has been spent on software development, which is nothing more than the introduction of the billing system. This billing system, let's face it, if these accounts can't get to the public in six months' delay, it doesn't work well. Yes, because 150 public services should be organised, they should have been finalised and delivered to the public in time with this software costing HUF 415 million. I would like to highlight one more sentence from this additional annex that I have found. NHKV Zrt. One of its tasks is the long-term sustainable financing system and the zero-residual sector operation. I ask you, how is it that you set the zero-false sector as your task, as your goal, and you do not collect revenues from the population and - there is the other side of that from the municipalities. And they put the municipalities in a situation where, when the waste management law was born, it centralised the task, but the municipal law named the organisation of waste management as a mandatory task. So it is the municipality that at the end is responsible for everything, so that the waste is removed from the residents. I would like to add a little more to the municipal part, as the public service providers as a non-profit management company from the service fee, which NHKV Zrt. It shall redistribute to the public services, covering this service, which is a service charge hijacked by corrective factors. So they do a lot to recycle and select these wastes as much as possible. But I'm telling you, neither Q1, Q2 nor Q3 have ever received this service fee, so how can the systems work? Who's gonna pay? The municipality, the owner. So who's gonna pay for it? You're the public. And thus, the fact that individual public service providers do not have access to these service charges puts the population itself under such a burden. So I trust that this billing system of HUF 415 million will work soon. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The government must intervene to save the airport in Miskolc. Mr Péter Jakab, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. You have the floor, please.
u2018-09-17-237	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Miskolcs and Borsodi have been waiting for many years, if not decades, for a capitalist investor to finally show up in the region, so that this investor might bring money, more quality jobs and more quality wages to the people in the county. A lot of people thought that this capitalist investor would be BMW with its investment of EUR 1 billion, but unfortunately, the Miskolcs, the Borsodians, had to be disappointed again, because BMW did not choose Miskolc, not Borsod, but Debrecent, like many other investors. And, yes, in this situation, there is a question as to why. The municipality of Miskolc answered this question itself, according to which BMW chose Debrecent instead of Miskolc because Debrecen has an airport that meets the needs of BMW and Miskolc does not have such a modern and equipped airport. In this situation, I believe that a responsible city administration, a responsible municipality, would respond that we should then develop the airport in Miskolc so that we would not run into such an economic slap next time. But the municipality of Miskolc didn't give that answer, it didn't decide to do so, but decided to close the airport in Miskolc one at a time. With this, there may be a shameful situation that in Hungary alone Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén will be the county where there will be no operating airport, which will be a huge blow to the county's economic life and to air rescue, as air rescue is very important in emergency care, and the emergency care of the entire county will be entrusted to Miskolc. The question arises as to why the municipality of Miskolc has made this decision, why they are not developing the airport. The answer is simple: because they want to sell the airport area. So it seems that, for some reason, Fidesz in Miskolc is not interested in modernization, not in large investments, but in doing business and doing business with a piece of land. I believe that one of the main areas of the county's economic life is the airport, the fate of the airport determines the future of the county, so this airport must be saved. However, the municipality of Miskolc is no longer expected to do so, and government intervention is therefore needed. So I would ask the government's non-published representatives here whether they are willing to do anything to save the airport in Miskolc, because if this airport is taken away, it can seal the future of Borsod. And the reason I spoke conditionally about waiting for an answer is that you may not be able to see it here, but it is worth pointing out to the kind viewers that there is no one pro-government politician present in this parliamentary Chamber, either on the part of Fidesz or on the part of the government, even though there are members of the government who are not sitting here for a salary of five million. I think that this is a disgrace to Hungarian democracy. If an average worker would dare to do that at any job, he wouldn't have to go to work tomorrow, he could go down. About the same is what MEPs who are not here today deserve, and they are ignoring voters. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Although I would like to say that all the notary sitting up here, I am all pro-government. But, of course, in addition to being impartial, I try to lead the meeting, and I would like to continue to be present. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a post- Agenda address from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[19.50]]
u2018-09-17-239	Mr President, Dear House, It should be noted that, apart from the chairman and the notary, there is no pro-government representative in the room. This is very unpleasant because, let alone the opposition representative does not get the answer to questions about the fate of foreign exchange credit victims, the details of eviction, but it seems that there is no modest interest on the part of the government. Compared to this, today, when it turned out that we had to go out to an eviction event on Thursday morning at 6:00 a.m. to opposition representatives, I had the idea of inviting Mr. Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, to answer me. I am very confident that you will reach me by telephone, by e-mail or by means of an alternative solution, Mr Secretary of State, you will be interested in the address, time and circumstances of the eviction. Aunt Kati, who has been with us once, and who has managed to prevent this event once or at least to postpone it, is looking forward to the attention that would be due to her taxpayers and everyone in Hungary. At the same time, this attention will not come. This lady we're going to, she lost her granddaughter for the first time with an incurable serious illness. The loss of the granddaughter, his father, so the lady's son, was unable to deal with it, so unfortunately, he ended his life with his own hands. God rest his soul. It can be said that, inheriting the boy's credit, the old lady was in an impossible, unmanageable, unworkable situation. It's a lady who still goes to a store to do inventory at night, so I think she's doing everything she can to manage her fate, even if she has to carry this very heavy burden on her shoulders. The last time it became clear that he was bleeding from a thousand wounds and his history was full of violations, it was the movers who arrived there, so it was the movers who said that they did not know that eviction would take place, they were invited to move, but they were not going to take part in the street of a Hungarian person, especially in such a case. So they turned their backs and left. Compared to this, the infamous executive behind the series of events, who, according to my previous information, has been suspended from carrying out this activity, has now again announced this event, by 6:00 a.m., expecting that we will not be there. I would also like to say so, and the video of this speech will be sent through every existing channel to the stakeholders that we will be there. Not only will we be better representatives there, but we will also be defenders and legally highly qualified persons who can provide meaningful and immediate assistance, and there will obviously be civilians who attend such events. There will be alternative media service providers who are willing to report similar events at all. I would like to say that in the event of the eviction in Ferencváros, the family managed to win a 30-day extension. This is exactly enough to keep the child from being taken away by Social Services, but these 30 days are ticking, so we need to find a solution to the family. I would also like to note that there have been a number of evictions recently where, although there have been better Members who have been invited, there has been no need for any active intervention, since either the injured party himself or the defenders there have been able to prevent the disaster. It is evident from this, therefore, from the high success rate, that this story is bleeding from a thousand wounds. Therefore, in addition to the need for intervention, it can be seen that it is possible. This is where I believe the government should set up a national crisis manager. And this national crisis manager, from the source of, say, the Hungarian National Bank's foreign exchange credit conversion - and this is about a hundred billion-dollar scale - would also give room to help people after eviction and to support them in any way from the withdrawal of medicines to the acquisition of a new temporary residence. We also need to say that if a family were to be evicted, it would be necessary to develop a system where the child could be placed with the family at least under 12 years of age, at least with the mother, because we believe that it will cause irreversible damage, both from the point of view of socialization and, as a family, a violent break-up that would not be justified under these national circumstances. There would be a budget space, there would be a chance to help. We, in our own way, try to help by physically showing up on Thursday at 6:00 a.m. and trying to prevent an eviction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-09-17-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs also spoke after the agenda from the Jobbik Group:. The memory of today's lords, the modern Dumpster and our brother Pista. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-09-17-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow, the Parliament will discuss the proposal for a resolution that would make the birthday of István Nagyatádi, born 17 September, the 155th year, a memorial day for farmers in Hungary. Quite rightly, we will support this, because István Nagyatádi Szabó, whom Gyula Gömbös said was grasping into the Hungarian soul as the wheat, as the root of the oak in the Hungarian soil, deserves this memory, deserves respect. A hundred and ten years ago, he became a Member of Parliament, a member of the Parliament as a person exercising his first peasantry and farming. Indeed, in such a way he preferred to be called Brother Pista, not Excellency. He was able to stay in Csokonyavisonta, his native village, and he was able to become a state man here in Budapest. By the way, he did not have more than 45 acres of land at the end of his life, so he had only 20 acres of land, of which his wife acquired 15 acres through inheritance. Among the authors, we have a pro-government fellow Member who has denied some HUF 1.5 billion in his declaration of assets over the years and forgot to confess. Well, we will support this proposal, this proposal for a resolution, even because we believe and believe that the farmers have been the nation-sustaining force of that country for centuries. The task of this proposal for a resolution is to put this social layer in a position to truly become an engine of the national economy. But I could also refer to Lajos Für, who said that we are talking about Europe's largest and most time-living social formation. Or I could also bring up the quote to Jefferson that said that farmers are the most valuable citizens of each country, because they are the most life-strong, the most capable, the most virtuous, and they are connected to their country with the most lasting bond and stick to its freedom and interests. Or I could safely state Tormay Cécile's statement that if we compare the nation to an oak tree, then the root of this oak is the countryside, the rural society. But if István Szabó Nagyatádi were to be resurrected now, then, seeing the many Gucci-ridikülos and Vuitton-hospital Fidesz gentlemen and ladies, if he could see these fidesz Döböbögiks, he would certainly have his moustache splattered, he would roll up his sleeve, spit in his hand, he would take the pitchfork hard, and he would start cleaning out the stable of Augias, which reeks far away from the ugliness of these fidesz lords and Döbögiks. That's what he would do, even if he was a fan of social peace in his whole life. Obviously, it is not possible to pin everything on the Fidesz government, because the depravity of the country where it is now in Hungary is not the result of such a social arrangement in a large part of rural Hungary. The communists sweeping the attic, the national settlement network development concept of 1971, which practically condemned a large part of our villages to death, did so. He made a change of regime, the liberals who said that the Hungarian village was a medieval degenerate. However, this government has done its part, because if we look at the policy of property in Hungary, we can see that last year, two thirds of the 560 billion agricultural budget were awarded to the top 10 percent. So it is no wonder that the population is fleeing the countryside, or that the population is staying there, is vegetating, and in many cases people feel there as if the people of the Pollysian Pustas were to be brought to life in the 21st century. In the century, because these people are vulnerable. You have done nothing to stop foreign gentlemen from ruling, say, in South Somogy, in my narrower Patria. Yes, they can thank you and say that grazie mille, say, on Italian estates, I am thinking of Benetton's exultation, or they can say to the Belgian that it is a dank u wel, or merci beaucoup. After all, it was not a coincidence that at the public auction almost a thousand hectares of land could be bought for a billion forints by the descendants of the settled Geissens family. Well, these are the things that tell me, honourable Members, that this proposal for a resolution is somewhat Pharisee on the part of the pro-government authors. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[20.00]]
u2018-09-17-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Andrea Varga-Damm has also applied from the Jobbik Group to speak after the agenda with the title "Deviation-credited" and "Little Color" Calvary. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I welcome everyone to the new session, on the first day of the new autumn session, and I wish everyone good work. I decided that, after our Fidesz fellow Members do not really believe the true calvaries of foreign exchange legitimists, I would like to quote a single case in each of my speeches. I would also have liked to have at least one Member sitting in this Chamber outside of the President because he might have been able to tell his fellows what I'm about to say as a little colourful. Unfortunately, the story is not colorful, it relates to Debrecen, and by the way, Congressman László Tasó's childhood friend and family are the victims. I'm talking about the Szilágyi family in Debrecen, who took very nice businesses, when an official of the Inter-Europe Bank in Debrecen looked out for this family to see if he could get them to sign a loan agreement, some of which would be invested in securities by the family and the loan could be repaid. Yeah, they're only in the hands of criminals in the bank's officials, and they've used 150 million in loans to place 80 million forints in securities, and they'll be able to pay off their returns. Then there was neither contract nor consent. Suddenly, this bank invested 80 million forints in securities that we do not even know exist today. And could anyone ask me that the family didn't enforce their rights, because he didn't get the 80 million out of the 150 million loan? Yes, you can. Of course he did. The court has filed a lawsuit, the first, second, case has gone through, and this horribly influenced, monster judiciary, who is running these cases, negotiates, signifies Judi Gál is the biggest queen on the Metropolitan Courtboard, and has been swept off the table with this claim and this claim, that's just what it is! The Mansion hasn't been able to deal with it in a year and a half. I myself, as a legal representative, met with this case in the review department. Do you imagine that it is written in the judgment of a Hungarian court that the bank purchased Chinese securities on behalf of the client? What's Chinese securities? Is there such a thing as Chinese securities? Now do you imagine that this is the final judgment of a judge that Chinese paper was purchased on behalf of the client and certified by a Hungarian court? What's gonna come out in the review department? That the bank purchased its own securities from the client's money without consent, which decreased to 35 percent in a year. And now imagine that such matters must be fought by the Hungarian foreign exchange-credit society, and they suffer from it, i.e. they steal the money from them, they are trying to enforce their rights, and the Hungarian court says that if you have not given consent, you have not entered into a contract, you still have to bear the consequences of such a terrible cause. I'll ask you, of course, if there's been a report. Of course there was a report. Of course it happened. The policeman at the interrogation says that if it were up to him, he'd put this whole bunch of people in jail, and he'd be investigating it. What's happening? The D.A.'s office says it doesn't appear from the available data that anyone has committed any crime. Of course. In the banking world, anyone can take anything away from anyone, paper it up, open up counterfeit accounts, say that they exist in contracts that are never commissioned, and what we see is that Hungarian society is being looted with this systematic, filthy type of business, ruining lives, ever taking away incomes that have been earned in honor, charging wealth. I believe that these are also to be discussed here in the House because it seems that our fellow Members do not meet such people, because one third of the Members could be saved from the horror of this case by paying for 180 forints, and they could make the end-payment law for themselves, but they left virtually a lot of people in the net of this terrible type of business. There are a lot of Fidesz MEPs' things still here, so I hope that somewhere in this House they are watching my speech through the mediation chain, and they can think that if such dishonest and terrible matters can exist in Hungary under the governance of this government without consequences, then there must be some deficit in government, because they cannot happen in a normal democratic country. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-09-17-244	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dóra Dúró applied to speak after the agenda on Badacsony murder and our duties. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-09-17-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It's not two weeks since a man was killed in Badacsony. Someone died, a young winemaker, Csaba Havasi, who was talking to his girlfriend and friends in a parking lot when they were attacked. In addition to the personal tragedy, this tragic murder obviously has public aspects, so it should also be discussed in the National Assembly. On the one hand, we see that, not only in two weeks, but in eight years, we have not been able to bring order against the earlier promise of the Minister of Interior, and that the serious public security problems that affect, for example, the region of Lake Balaton still exist. But this whole issue has not only a public security aspect, it is about an embarrassing problem that the government simply does not want or can't handle. There is still a subculture in Hungary in which crime is considered cool, in which pointless aggression is fashionable, and even men are expected to be in prison. I believe that this is a very serious social problem, which also has a public security dimension, but also a social aspect, and there are very many other policy issues that relate to this. At the same time, the solution would not only require policy but also political will, and the reason why this whole issue is not addressed is because of the lack of political will. In itself, the fact that this area, the area of gypsyism, the Roma policy is left to Flórian Farkas, the current government alone, shows that there is no intention of making any progress. Fortunately, if not in the government, there are ready Hungarian patriots in whom there is a will and intention to solve these problems, at least in this case they have done so and this has been demonstrated by the members of the security service, who, with their courage, I believe, have set an example for the entire Hungarian community. Among the Badacsony heroes, I must highlight Peter, who tried to revive the victim for 45 minutes, and here I would open a parentheses, in addition to, of course, giving him and his other colleagues this recognition, it is also a huge problem, and it raises many questions that an ambulance will arrive anywhere in Hungary after 45 minutes. We have heard many times from government speakers that they would like to reach every point of Hungary within 15 minutes. We can see that this did not work at all, and in this case it is particularly serious, because it is a death. They were also members of the security service who held off the perpetrators until the police arrived and showed extraordinary courage, which is why we believe they deserve a state medal. In this speech, I would also like to ask the Minister of Interior to consider and even directly donate state medals to the members of the security service, as they have been an example to the Hungarian people, which deserves great respect. The details of the case were also learned from László Toroczkai, the President of the Hungarian Movement, who, in his Facebook post, revealed to the public the details of what happened at the scene after he informed the members of the security service in Badacsony about what had happened exactly. [[20.10]] Hungarians desperately need to acknowledge these heroes, and they need the government to recognise that the tension between Hungarians and Gypsies has not decreased in recent years, and this case is also a direct consequence of what exists in this regard in Hungary. So once again, I'm asking Mr. Minister of the Interior to acknowledge the heroes, to give him a state medal. For our part, we will give the Hungarian Life Prize to Péter, who will receive it during the Corvin on 23 October, the Hungarian Life Prize. I hope that your example will serve as an example for many. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-09-17-246	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your full day's work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'll see you in the morning. Meeting day's closed.
