u2018-10-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear fellow Members, The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Imre Kőrösi, born in Kecskemét, was a member of the Hungarian Parliament during the parliamentary term from 1990 to 1994. With his mandate in the first free parliamentary elections, he participated in the work of the Hungarian Parliament between 1990 and 1993 as a member of the MDF faction and until 1994 as an independent representative. During his term of office, he was a member of the Municipal Committee and the Affairs Committee. He also served as Chairman of the Chamber of Agriculture between 1993 and 1994. Michael Moses was also a member of the House from 1990 to 1994. He obtained his mandate in the colours of SZDSZ, in the 3rd constituency of Hajdú-Bihar county, and worked as an independent representative from 1992 after leaving the faction until the end of his mandate. He was a member of the Cultural Committee. He dedicated his life to teaching, in the nearly forty years spent teaching as a historian and university professor at the University of Debrecen, Miskolc and Corvinus and at Károly Eszterházy College. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members who have died in silence. [[The people present pay tribute to the memory of the deceased with a minute's silence.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, representative of the Democratic Coalition, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The Turks can protest, the Hungarians can't? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-10-15-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I specifically gave my speech a title that you would have given me in reverse. In fact, I was even moderate, because in your style I should have given you the title that the Muslims can protest and Christians can't, because what happened was that when the Hungarians in Europe, the Democratic Coalition, wanted to protest against President Erdoğan, you banned it and didn't allow it when the Turks in Hungary wanted to protest alongside President Erdoğan, but the police happily approved and supported it. I can't hear a European defender of Christianity, Viktor Orbán, who is a thrashing defender of Christianity, how he is brutally outraged that because of the Islamized right of assembly, Christian Hungarians cannot protest, I don't see that our fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNPs would use a rosary to create a prayer chain around the police headquarters to protest the rights of Christian Hungarians. Unfortunately, the timeframe does not allow me to go through all your fake Christian horseback, but let us just say, fellow Members, that you have passed a assembly law which can prohibit any protest at any time. This rubber rule was applied when the protest of the Democratic Coalition was banned last Monday. And before we are confused with you, our problem is not that Turkish Erdoğan sympathizers could protest very much; our problem is that we Hungarians in Europe could not protest, even though the assembly is our constitutional right, we and everyone who lives in this country, regardless of their nationality, religion, origin, colour of skin, and whether they want to protest something or something, because in a European democracy this is an unquestioned fundamental right: everyone is always free to appear. I will not start again on your nonsense, that you serve Muslims along foreign interests against the Hungarian people, and that is why our protest was banned, and that is why they allowed Allah Akbar to hum! Because you were hired by George Soros, IMF or lizards from Sirius to contribute to the Islamation of Europe. I represent the Hungarians in Europe here, and we do not believe in such tales and conspiracy theories. It is quite clear that you have banned our protest because we wanted to protest against Erdoğan, dictatorship, illiberism. We have been silenced because we disagree with you, the example of the illiberal dictatorship that you have followed. What did Viktor Orbán say in Strasbourg? We would never strive to silence those who disagree with us. It is fortunate that the building of the European Parliament in Strasbourg has been well built and the ceiling has not been broken down. For eight years, all you have done is silence those who disagree with you: silence the free press, silence the civilians, silence the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and now try to silence the Hungarian people, not to let a dictator show that he has entered the territory of the European Union, where he is an undesirable guest. You are seriously mistaken that this can be done for a long time; that Hungarians will be able to ban expression, assembly, protest. No matter where we go with the DK - Resistance demonstration series, in Budapest, Szeged, Győr or Miskolc, we see that more and more people are coming out of the street, because more and more people understand what the Orbán system is like, and that you must not be replaced, but be expelled. [[13.10]] So just keep doing this. Ban the protests, squeeze their sticky hands into the mouths of the protesting Hungarian people. Do it because the more they do it, the closer they'll fall! This is how systems like this fall when they think they have the power, not the people's. That's why your Turkish role model has to put journalists, civilians, university people in jail, because it's the only way he can extend his power. But let me be clear: failure will happen both there and here. Because finally, the power belongs to the people. Keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-2	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2018-10-15-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Strange suggestions from the party that interpreted democracy by surrounding Parliament with cordons, not for a day, but for months. Your claim is completely wrong, that you're from the Fake news realm, that the police could restrict any protest because of any foreign invited person. You know as well as I do, because they also received a written document saying that the Democratic Coalition wanted to organize a protest in an area closed by the police, so they rejected their request. And you know very well that the police offered a very close alternative location that you didn't want to live with at all. [[Gergely Harvesto: Freedom Square! Why not on Hortobágy or Crab Palota? 2 Kossuth Street.]]
u2018-10-15-4	Congressman Harvester, you've already had your say.
u2018-10-15-5	It also shows that you were not interested in the agreement; you were not interested in the agreement, but only in the trouble. And it's also a very talkative fact that 17 protests were announced that day, and everyone but you understood what the law was, and you didn't want to organize a protest in an area that was otherwise closed by the police. This justification is public, by the way, and anyone can see it. When the Democratic Coalition is concerned about democratic rights, it's kind of like the goats are worried about the future of cabbages. And speaking of the right of assembly, wasn't it your party that strongly violated the right of assembly? It wasn't you? [[Gergely Harvester: No!]] The symbols of your concept of democracy are horse cops, water cannons, rubber bullets and shot-out eyes. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You wanted to use sharp ammunition!]] The leaders of the shameless police officers have even been awarded cynicism, maximized. Kossuth Square, as I mentioned, has been declared an operational area for months, and they have not even allowed the Hungarians to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the revolution and the war of freedom in this place. It was also an example that protests were banned on grounds of non-existent Slovak terrorists. In the matter of freedom of the press, you have also brought this up, so this case is governed by the autumn speech. Your eye-shooting party president here has been talking about the need to prepare this quote for the leaders and publicists of the most influential newspapers, what they can expect. The goal is to learn: you don't have to snoop up at every moment, and you have to go forward. That's what your party president said. By the way, this was the time when Péter Medgyessy defined the media balance so that if the right one needs a television, he can buy it himself. [[Zsolt Gréczy and Gergely Arató intervene.]] That's how you understood it. So if democracy really mattered to you, you wouldn't have been misled by the Hungarians for years, lied in the morning and quote you again at noon. By the way, to the greater glory of Hungarian democracy Your party held a protest, if not on the police-closed route of international delegations, but on Miskolc, for example, if I understand it correctly, they also declared opposition. Here, Ferenc Gyurcsány proved for many years that you still oppose the will of the Hungarians in the decisive cases. And I would like to point out one thing out of all this nonsense because I think it's important. Ferenc Gyurcsány basically said that he said that immigration is not a problem, that nobody wants to come to Hungary anyway, and the EU has stopped the flood of migration, not the fence. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's true too! That's true, too.]] You're telling me that's true. On the one hand, how insulting is it that you claim that no one wants to come here from our country? We considered this country our country when your party president was the Prime Minister. He was still our country, and we wouldn't have said that. And the only thing about the fence is that, yes, it is now an effective protection for the country. This is about the fence against which you personally protested at Röszke's. As far as the migration crisis is concerned in general, as you are debating, I suggest you look at the European elections and you will see that this is the key issue everywhere. It is all about security and the future of Europe. So, while it is a good thing that there is freedom of opinion and freedom of speech in Hungary today, I would advise you and the entire Gyurcsány Party not to use it to mislead the Hungarians. In your party, we can see that there is a tradition of this, but for our part, we do not want to allow this to be the guiding principle again in Hungarian public life, and I think that Hungarians will also raise their eyebrows in order when, as if nothing had happened, eye-shooters want to educate us from democracy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-6	Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech on our current affairs. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2018-10-15-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The picture has been clear in recent weeks in Europe and Hungary. The picture is clear in Europe because it turns out that there is no majority of the policy in Orbán. But the picture was also clear in Hungary, as Mezőtúr, the XV. district and yesterday Szombathely proved that Fidesz can be defeated [[Interjection.]] ; how to believe that the majority rejects a fidesz policy based on lies and manipulations. This is good news for those who take advantage of problems, instead of abuse of the misery of others, they are in favour of solving problems, who are in favour of cooperation instead of disintegration. And the picture is also clear because it is becoming clearer what orbán politics really is and what it is causing Hungary. We Hungarian left-wingers have always said and say: the Sargentini report is not about refugees, it is about us Hungarians, about our everyday lives; about the foreign exchange victims, about the Quaestor-damaged, about the people who lost their homes, about the thousands to be evicted, about the homeless who declared the new people's enemy. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the way here, they were going to take the homeless person who regularly sells newspapers to Members of Parliament about Uncle Kálmán because he sells the newspaper without the Cover in a forbidden place. But this report is about teachers, students, doctors, nurses, patients, young people, the elderly, workers, the unemployed, their disenfranchisement, but this report is also about what a bill just tabled today indicates that you want to take away the opportunity for young people to get housing. They want to shut down the housing savings banks, and once again they want to enforce the social philosophy that those who have more have more have more. Today's young Hungarians will not be able to get an apartment. It's our responsibility to do something about it. We've got work to do to stop Article 7 from being sharpened. The MSZP has taken the step that you should have taken, and we have presented proposals that could prevent Hungary from being punished. We've made 19 suggestions, we've done the work you should have done. Be clear, Viktor Orbán and the Urizing Fidesz elite are responsible for all evictions, all deaths due to lack of doctors, all lost support. After all, all you had to do was vote in favour of our proposals. But they didn't do that, they didn't raise their hands; they didn't, because you have more important privileges than support for Hungarians. That's why I said it was clear. From now on, Fidesz is a party of denial and privilege; of denial, because they said no to five important things. They said no to the equal rights of Hungarians. They said no to eliminating corruption. They said no to freedom of science. They said no to workers' rights. And they said no to supporting families and old age. In contrast, Fidesz and the government retain only and exclusively their own privileges. Fidesz is now a party to privileges, because what they get is not due to the majority. The interests of Fidesz's own minions are protected by courts and hospital VIP care. Fidesz insists on the political influence of the prosecution and prevents the control of the use of EU funds and the detection of abuses. Fidesz wants to rewrite the past, and he wants to lie about the future, which is why he wants to grind up independent science workshops. Fidesz supports multinationals instead of multi-workers. While Orbán's circles are getting rich, Fidesz rejects the support of families and the elderly. These two times five points, twice five points of denial and privilege today, tell us all about you, the government's work. However, our job is to protect the interests of the Hungarian people, and now the support for Hungarian people. Therefore, we do not accept the denial of Fidesz, nor do we accept their privileges. We will continue to collect signatures for accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we will present the referendum initiative that will abolish the VIP supply of government members, because it is absolutely outrageous and amazing that, while people wait months and years for intervention, while there is chaos and an emergency in health, government members will receive high-level health care. Let the fidesz urizing elite be interested in reducing waiting lists and solving the burning problems of health care; for our common future, for a just Hungary!
u2018-10-15-8	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know if I can ask you to do this, but if I may ask, I would suggest that you negotiate before such speeches at least on the left. One speaker claims that there is no democracy in Hungary, then comes the other speaker, who welcomes the outcome of the interim elections, at least those where there was a left-wing victory. If I understand what you are saying, then you know very well that there is democracy in Hungary, which is why it is a huge scandal that, despite this, the Sargentini report has been voted in favour, which, for ideological reasons, is trying to get this out of the way and which has insulted Hungary to the blood. In the matter of home creation, it is difficult to accept lectures from those who have allowed room for foreign exchange credit, who have led to hundreds of thousands of debt traps, and who, even in the electoral campaign, have fought to abolish the current well-functioning home creation programme, which has helped more than 80,000 families, and will continue to expand in the future. If one listens to such MSZP speeches, it is easy to get the feeling that it is a party with an emotional heart and a heart that holds the fate of Hungarians. But if we look at the experience so far, we can see that there is a huge gap between the words and actions of the MSZP and the left in general. Well, where was this sensitivity, Your Honour, when unemployment was doubled? ! Where was this sensitivity when they allowed energy prices to increase many times? Where was this sensitivity when schools and hospitals were closed in many parts of the country? Where was this concern when they wanted to make health care pay and introduce a visitation fee? Where was this emotional heart when hundreds of thousands of people were trapped in foreign exchange lending by eliminating a well - functioning home creation program? Where was this responsible attitude when the government debt was raised from 53 percent to 80 percent by putting a huge burden on the Hungarians for several years? That's what you said at the time, it wasn't about austerity, it was about the dynamics of the economy. I am also referring to these measures because the fact is that we do not see a small sign that you would like to change the failed policy at the time. Even in the current election campaign, among other things, there was a need to increase the personal income tax rates, so back to the past, more tax increases. That's what you said. Honourable Congressman, There are millions of Hungarians working to see that this country is now more stable on its feet. This made it possible, among other things, to create 700 000 new jobs, more than that, to spend more than five hundred and five hundred HUF 505 billion more on health care compared to your period and 606 billion on education. And here's the thing: you mentioned the Sargentini report. If the fate of the country was really important to the MSZP, you would not have been able to support this report attacking Hungary, and as the example shows, you would have been proud of it. There is a connection between the issues of livelihood and the Sargentini report that we have discussed less here in Parliament. We are well aware that the real aim of this report is to force us to change course in immigration policy, and if they could, if they could, if they could turn Hungary into an immigrant country, it would affect all the areas that you have mentioned and that concern the livelihood of Hungarians. Because if they were able to open the gates of Hungary by force, the economic surplus brought together by hard work should not be spent on Hungarian families, but on immigrants. I would like to tell you here, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, I have already done the calculations of this in Germany, and they themselves say that the provision of a single immigrant costs more than 700 thousand forints in euros. But to approach this from another place: already, the Germans spend double as much money on migration-related purposes, on dealing with the consequences as on family support. EUR 20 billion is against EUR 9.3 billion. So, if the MSZP really wanted to improve the livelihood of Hungarians, it would not join foreign pressure training and, above all, would permanently turn its back on the failed policy, the left-wing policy, which has almost bankrupted the country once. Unfortunately, there's no sign of such a turn in your benches at this time. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-10	As a representative of the Dialogue, Sándor Burány also asked for the floor before the agenda with a title on the current affairs. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Unfortunately, we must state that the Orbán government is the government of inhumanity. The government of inhumanity, because it pursues a social policy in which more and more people in the top ten are getting more and more benefits now I don't even talk about buddies and relatives from theft, they get more and more benefits, I repeat, members of the upper tenteen, while there are increasingly unbearable burdens on the shoulders of low incomes. One of your first measures was that it was raised in an unprecedented way, not reduced, but increased, Mr Secretary of State, the minimum wage tax. [[13.30]] You know, you've reduced your personal income tax to the top ten, you've raised your low incomes. It was raised to such an extent that instead of the previous zero percent, it is now 15 percent. The highest rate of minimum wage taxes in Hungary is the result of your decision throughout Europe, throughout the European Union. As a result, a worker's poverty in the country has developed and become a mass. A worker's poverty, the essence of which, unfortunately, we must say that those who earn little in Hungary are already poor. People also live in poverty who, by the way, have income from work. This has become an unprecedented mass under your governance in Hungary. And, of course, trouble does not go alone, because there are many other consequences. According to a recent research, while between 2010 and 2016, the net average income increased slightly by more than 10 percent, the rental price increased by more than 70 percent during the same period. And if I add that we are talking about an average currency here, while we know that 60 percent of Hungarian taxpayers earn under the average wage and well below the average wage, then the situation is even more tragic. As a result, not only labour poverty has developed in Hungary, but also housing poverty. More and more people, some 2-3 million people, are trapped in Hungary; a trap in which the cost of housing and living is taking away most of their salary and income in terms of income. After all, not only rent prices have increased to an unprecedented extent in Hungary, but we have also achieved one of the worst results in Europe in the last eight years in terms of rising food prices. This is also the result of your governance. Thus, this housing poverty threatens 2-3 million people, according to research, so many people live in Hungary today in a situation where they have poor quality, poor condition, poor energy, poorly heated, poorly insulated or difficult to afford, and have no chance, no hope of finding a way out of this situation. Unfortunately, the direct consequence of this is the spread of homelessness. One of the most inhuman laws of your inhuman government has entered into force today, and it is now possible to raid the homeless. And instead of fighting homelessness, you devote your energy to fighting the homeless, against the people you shouldn't be fighting, but against the people you should be helping. In this country, social housing is not built mass and there are not sufficiently homeless shelters. It is also unfair that they want to take the blame now with the police and local government workers, they have to carry out an inhumane law in this inhumane system relatively humanely. It's quite simply unfair. I have included in the implementation the provision of movable property, which you have generously made a duty of the municipalities. I declare that precisely because it violates constitutional rights in our view, we are going to the Constitutional Court in order to protect property. Still, something has to be done. Unfortunately, in implementing such an inhumane law, all we can ask for now is for the government to step through its own shadow, and if it has already created one of the most inhumane laws in the world, it will try to develop its humane side in its implementation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-15-12	To reply, the floor is for Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Listening to you, it seems that their old habits remain, which is to mislead people. After all, he came up with numbers, came up with data, and made statements, statements that did not stand the test of truth. But let's look at the facts, let's look at the numbers. You were talking about minimum wage. Let's see where the minimum wage has increased since 2010! On the one hand, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the minimum wage for skilled workers. In 2010, when you were in government, and you were a State Secretary, for example, the minimum wage was 73,500. This increased to 138 thousand forints by 2018. This is roughly a 90 percent increase if you look at the value in nominal terms. The guaranteed minimum wage has increased even more, more than doubled, the guaranteed minimum wage is 180 thousand forints, in other words the minimum wage for skilled workers. [[It's a constant murmur.]] Thus, the minimum wage has increased significantly, but also as a result of this and the economic policy, thanks to what the Orbán governments have done over the past four years in eight years, not only the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased greatly, but also the wages at other levels. This means that the gross wage, the average wage, is around HUF 320,000, HUF 216-217,000 is the net wage, so it has increased significantly. In real terms, the rise in wages has increased by nearly 40 percent. What have you done when you were in government between 2002 and 2010 to increase wages? Not only have they increased, but there have been years when the real value of wages in Hungary has not been preserved. You are asking our government for things that, I tell you, do not stand the test of truth, and have done exactly the opposite when it was in your hands. But, of course, we also need to look at what we did for housing, for improving housing conditions, and what you did back then. Before 2010, you left-wing governments abolished the home creation system, which, in the pre-2002 period, during the first Orbán government, was able to show significant construction growth, which was measured not only in the performance of construction companies, but also in the number of homes built. In contrast to Péter Medgyessy's 2002 election promise, it is still possible to say that again people have been misled or lied to. They beat up, reduced tax incentives and interest rate subsidies, tightened up loan financing. One of the consequences of this was the currency borrowing boom, which you did not prevent, and with your help they owed families and businesses. By eliminating the home creation system, Hungarians were forced to take on foreign exchange loans, as I said. As a result, between 2002 and 2010, the amount of retail foreign exchange loans, I did not miss the number, increased 140-fold, my honourable fellow Member. Do you have the courage to account for anything on the Orbán government? The disastrous crisis of the Gyurcsány government, the 2008 economic crisis, has led to a drastic change in exchange rates. This is why, among other things, foreign exchange lenders are in a difficult situation. You didn't do anything about it. As Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány said in Parliament at the end of the summer that the crisis was not going to ring in here, and then he was forced to resign two or three months later, because he was not telling the truth, as Dömötör State Secretary said, he had already lied at night and day, misleading people. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are in a hopeless situation because of your irresponsible economic and social policies. Do you have the courage to take any account of the current composition of the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government? ! Homeless care. The aim of the changes that will take place today on 15 October is to protect the homeless and, of course, to protect public order, as well as to protect public areas. It may not be human to you or to you, but the question is whether living in a public area is worthy of man. 'Cause that's what you think people live on public property in the summer and the winter. Is this a life worthy of man, in your opinion? We believe that it is the government's duty to help people in need, including this measure, so that homeless people can sleep in the right place. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-14	Congressman, your time is considerably over, compared to what you said. The only excuse I can offer you is that Zsolt Gréczy, confusing the quality of his spokesperson with his representatives, kept yelling. That is why I think it is justified to go over time. [[13.40]] I would also ask Mr President, if possible, to stick to the rules of the house, not to act as a spokesperson in the benches. And before I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár to say his comments before the agenda, which is entitled: "It is not a shame to agree with Viktor Orbán, I would just like to ask him a rhetorical question before him, which I am not waiting for, but he may answer with a nod: did my colleagues not forget to inform me that you submitted their request for an illustration to the House Committee an hour before the House Committee meeting? Because if you didn't submit such a request, I'd like to call you before you raise your voice and give you the floor, so that not only you, but also the members of the faction, will stick to the house rules, otherwise there will be consequences, of course. There you go. You have the floor. [[The present members of the LMP faction raise banners to the high level:.It is possible to improve the functioning of universities and colleges even without the tuition fee.-- Viktor Orbán, March 2008--I am an enemy of the tuition fee, and I will remain an enemy of it.-- Viktor Orbán, July 2012--. The tuition will exclude people like us from the universities.-- Viktor Orbán, February 2008;.I will never accept the fact that in Hungary tuition will close the possibility of rising to children." Viktor Orbán, February 2008.]]
u2018-10-15-15	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen,
u2018-10-15-16	I would ask your fellow Members to remove you from the view as a matter of urgency...
u2018-10-15-17	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen,
u2018-10-15-18	I would ask your fellow Members, and you would be kind enough to ask them to comply with the house rules on the illustration. Congressman, you understand, don't you? So there is a house rule, which is a binding standard for all Members of Parliament when Parliament... [[Intercoms from the LMP.]] Listen to me, I'm trying to make myself clear, even to you. So the thing is, in the house rule, there is a point that I referred to just now when you rose to speak, which prohibits or makes it subject to a rule on how to illustrate in the midst of speeches. You have not submitted such a request, so the House Committee has not been able to judge this. Ergo, at this moment, you have no right to use any means of illustration in your speech. Is it clear what I've said so far? [[Péter Ungár: Gather the House Committee!]] No, I am not going to convene the House Committee, honourable Member, but I am calling, once again, for the third time, for your fellow Members, and if you do not hang up, I will exclude you from the rest of the sitting. Do you understand me? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Thank you. I didn't ask you to stop the clock; I think the technical staff should act in a self-acting manner when they have the opportunity to do so. [[Rumors from the LMP line.]] So there we were, rebooting the clock, if it weren't clear what I was going to say. [[Adam Mirkóczki: I think you should continue.]]
u2018-10-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear...
u2018-10-15-20	I'm sorry, I didn't ask you to get him back to the beginning, I asked you not to stop him. [[Defiance. Intercoms from the opposition. Péter Ungár continues his speech without sound.]] So, Congressman, for the time being, I would like to announce that your fellow factions will be excluded from the remainder of the session. After not the house... [[Péter Ungár continues his speech without sound. Intercoms from the opposition, including: What if I don't hear it?]] Maybe a siren next to the megaphone.
u2018-10-15-21	... with what Viktor Orbán said in 2008. The fact is that we can agree not only with them, but also with Fidelitas, the youth organization that specializes in tobacco shopping today, when he said that with the tuition, Ferenc Gyurcsány sends a message to young people: if you are not a child of rich parents, then don't want to learn any more. The tuition does not depend on the diligence and talent of students, but on the parents' wallets. You were right. It won't be a problem for me personally, it won't be a problem for your children, but for the people who voted for you, it will be a problem, even if you disagree. Even if they make up all kinds of false words about what the tuition is in Hungary. Your former predecessors called it a payment contribution, and you want to call it a development part contribution, which is actually a tuition fee. You can call this Aunt Gizi, Béla Juhászné Kis, you can call this a national contribution...
u2018-10-15-22	Dear House, Having to announce by name who is banned for the rest of the meeting, I would like to inform you that Szabolcs Szabó [[Péter Ungár: He is not a member of the faction.]] Krisztina Hohn, Antal Csárdi, Márta Demeter... [[Dr. István Apáti: No two yellows, straight from red!]] Did I count it right?
u2018-10-15-23	I'd like to keep going. So they'll still be tuition fees if you call them something else.
u2018-10-15-24	Lóránt Keresztes and László Lóránt Keresztes, I have yet to learn the name of the congressman, they cannot attend the rest of the meeting.
u2018-10-15-25	In 2008 you received their political legitimacy in part by a referendum against tuition fees, which is the legitimacy you want to withdraw in order to privatise Corvinus in line with neoliberal economic policy, privatise ELTE, privatise universities that someone else needs to have access to in order to be able to find a job in the Hungarian labour market. The fact is that whatever you say, whatever lies you continue to tell, we will all know that you lie about tuition, you lie when you claim that there is no tuition in Hungary. They will do everything in their power to prevent Hungarian students from organizing. [[Constant, loud noises, interruptions.]] They will do everything to make sure that Hungarian students do not have as much opportunity as a party that was organized at the university. This party, which now gives the government, was able to take government because these people were able to deal with politics because there was no tuition fee when they went to college. The same will be taken from hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians now because they have a thought about the world, as their fellow Member János Lázár said, that whoever has it is worth so much. That's what you think of the world, that's what you think of Hungarian students, and that's why you're beating up the welfare state, and that's why you're making it impossible for children who are more talented than your children. But I'd like to keep going. I'd like to ask the chairman...
u2018-10-15-26	Dear House, In the meantime, I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 49. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Rules of Procedure, Members who have been banned may no longer speak on this sitting, nor shall they be entitled to a fee for this day.
u2018-10-15-27	I didn't hear him, so I can't hear what he's saying. So, I don't know how much time I have left, but I would definitely tell the Speaker, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, who is now in the form of a dialogue: if they hadn't been given the opportunity to participate in higher education without tuition, to participate in university education and to learn a good quality, how could they now give the three public-law dignitaries? You, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, had you not had the chance, the statistics just came out that half the students are working for tuition while they're at university, how would you have been able to get here, dear congresswoman? [[Mrs. Czunyi towards Dr. Judit Bertalan.]] How could you...? Then you agree with the tuition? You can't take two positions at once! They cannot argue for tuition at the same time, and they can say that there is no tuition fee in Hungary. There is a tuition fee in Hungary, whatever its name is, but this tuition will be cancelled by people. It was abolished in 2009, and it will be erased again and again, even though you think you can do anything. They are accountable to their voters, including voters who are currently going to university, or those who, after a life together, have to spend their money saved so that their children can participate in an institution maintained by a tax. Dear Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary. It was good for you, too, that you did not have to pay tuition, and it was important for you, too, that the previous governments, which you gave up in every speech, tried to create a period of time when there was no tuition. And when there was a tuition, your political community stood up to him. We will do everything we can to ensure that there is no tuition in Hungary, we will do everything we can to get back from this neoliberal state what we need in Hungary: a free university where students can get involved, a higher education where quality education... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off. Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-15-28	I ask Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, if you wish to answer what has been said so far. Yeah, well, there you go. You can do that.
u2018-10-15-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He wanted to compensate for something very much with his speech today, and it seems that the LMP, and the speaker, were not even expensive enough to say his own speech, that he would have his entire faction disqualified from today's sitting. This may be the lack of internal solidarity that one of the presidents who left their party spoke about, Bernadett Szél, who was the third president of the LMP who left their party, and he also talked about the fact that throughout the campaign he was faced with how easy it was to make certain people within the LMP impossible, precisely because others would not show solidarity with them. And he's leaving the LMP because he doesn't want to work in a system where liability is punished and liability is rewarded. Here, you have convinced your fellow Members to hold back quotes that we still hold to this day. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Unpleasant quotes, isn't it? Péter Ungár: Then why are they paying money to study?]] These are also entirely the current ideas of the Fidesz-KDNP. It should have been protested against tuition in 2008, then it should have been in the social referendum that Fidesz-KDNP called to life and brought success to the LMP, and bravely stood up for the Fidesz-KDNP to cancel the tuition that the then MSZP government wanted to introduce. [[13.50]] Now, however, it seems that the opposition is bidding on each other about who is more opposed to the introduction of tuition fees. You have raised these signs for nothing other than to provoke the House. They knew very well that this was against house rules, they did it to punish you, because this is an untrue claim you're saying, that Fidesz-KDNP would want to make higher education a tuition winner, and you must, at least from the inside, think that it is a scandalous act to prevent the other opposition's small parties in this lie competition that opposition parties are running. These tables were not for us, honourable Member, and not for the electorate, because we have the same position. Thank you for drawing the electorate's attention to the fact that even in the most critical situation, there was no majority of the Fidesz-KDNP here in Parliament, but our permanent ally, the people, we were able to stop the socialists and free democrats from introducing tuition fees with the IMF and the World Bank behind them. [[Péter Ungár: I was born in 1991, Mr Secretary of State!]] Hungary. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Péter Ungár: CEU was involved!]] Now, when there is no danger of that, it is simply that there is a university that we would like to put between the world's 200 best universities and the 100 best universities in Europe, by the way of this case. [[Márta Demeter: Do students have to pay tuition fees for this?]] You're trying to cause a scandal here with various house violations. This was no different a few years ago, honourable Member, you have not been here yet, but since then you have been torn from your party, but in the meantime, other politicians have protested the closure of Corvinus University with the same vehemency, and the credibility of that statement is precisely shown by the fact that Corvinus University is still functioning. [[Szabolcs Szabó: They should sign a contract on 31 December!]] Your statement, which, judging from the titles of the opposition today, will clearly be sweeping through today, undermines its credibility to the full extent that they are protesting against a non-existent government measure. You, who also supported the Sargentini report with your absence [[Márta Demeter: But what does it have to do with this?]] in the European Parliament because they fear for the rule of law in Hungary [[Noise from the opposition benches.]] fear for the rule of law in Hungary, and each time they stand up for the university of György Soros, of course. [[Péter Ungár: I received a scholarship from him!]] You, therefore, who fear for the rule of law [[Márta Demeter: Why are young people locked away from knowledge? Answer that.]] , the most fundamental parliamentary rules are not complied with. When an honest word is needed to admit what they're up to or at least announce what they're up to, they don't do that. They demand the rule of law, they support Hungary's condemnation, and one of its former presidents from the three said that he would vote in the European Parliament in his heart, when you should respect a minimum of opposition, that is not what you do, honourable Member. But we, members of Parliament, have benefited, because we have known since Sallai R. Benedek that similar situations within the Party can lead to aggressiveness, and we, pro-government representatives, have at least been able to stay in our seats. So in this respect, we were better off than their own partymates. Honourable Congressman, Fidesz-KDNP has always been against tuition and will always be against tuition. We would like to keep the possibility of free higher education for everyone who meets the input requirements. Fidesz-KDNP is now clearly the only guarantee in this Parliament [[It's a burst from the lines of the LMP. Márta Demeter: You can't see it! It's pathetic that you can't answer. Why do young people pay tuition?]] All other parties have already expressed their views and have expressed the opposite of all positions. Some in Parliament have also made decisions and laws. Honourable Congressman, We also wanted to increase access to higher education by increasing the amount of Student Loan2 for those in it [[Antal Csárdi: If there is no tuition, what will he take up student loans for?]] who do not reach the minimum level of knowledge required for free access, the state scholarship, and for those who do not have an interest-free Student Loan2 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] so that even they have the opportunity to continue their studies. Today, there are far more people than eight years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-30	Mr Brenner Koloman, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda, and not only favour the rich with the title "Hungarian Higher Education." Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-10-15-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik, as a socially sensitive national people's party, in its 2018 electoral programme, would have provided us with significant financial resources for education and higher education, and presented detailed modernisation plans that all Hungarian citizens are finally the XXI. Get the knowledge that meets and adapts to the challenges of the century. This is why we are watching with increasing concern the reports on Corvinus University and plans to consider the uncertain future of the state-supported student status, which aim to transform the university and research worlds on the basis of a kind of highly apparent efficiency and usefulness. No but let's highlight the state of the Hungarian university world, whose serious adaptation is suspected by the news! According to this year's Academic Ranking of World Universities list, there are no Hungarian universities among the world's 500 best higher education institutions. This symbolic fact is only the tip of the iceberg, and this really shows the real situation of the bled-out Hungarian university world, and not the government's propaganda. One of the lowest graduates in Hungary is the Member States of the European Union, while the number of higher education students is constantly decreasing. Instead of an independent portfolio of education, the eccentric peak ministry, called EMMI, continues to dispo the entire sector, which should be known to act as a place of refuge for all matters that are completely irrelevant to the Prime Minister, such as education, health, social affairs and so on. Even in Central Europe, the financial appreciation of teachers can be considered as a driving force, our young and talented researchers are constantly emigrating, and the state of higher education is becoming increasingly difficult for students. 80 percent of the Hungarian college network does not comply with the current legal requirements, there are ageless and there are rent prices, especially in larger cities, which impose a priceless financial burden on parents and students. To all these serious crisis signs, how did Fidesz, who had been governing almost two thirds for nine years, react? Between 2010 and 2017, according to a study published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office in October, the chances of young people from disadvantaged small regions to enter higher education clearly deteriorated. I have already said that it is constantly decreasing, and it is decreasing much faster than the general population reduction would justify, the number of students. This is because, fellow Members, Fidesz has made access to higher education increasingly difficult in the last nine years. The Education Office has sometimes, without professional reasons, limited the upper orientations for certain disciplines, so the system has increasingly shifted towards a kind of elite education. The social groups for which Jobbik has always acted as a socially sensitive national people's party are clearly the losers of this process, since children from the poorer or non-intellectual family, as well as myself, are the biggest losers of this whole development. It is they, my fellow Members, who cannot afford tutoring, special lessons, language lessons, which are not adequate for public education. This is why Jobbik has been proposing for years that, since Hungarian public education does not at present ensure that all students have access to the language exam without a special teacher and a heavy financial burden, it should be abolished in this form so that they can only be admitted to universities with such language exams from 2020. Language learning is also a strategic element of Jobbik's programme to renew the education system, while integrating the results and tools of digitalisation and further urgent changes. But why are there concerns about the news that foundational or economic company forms would replace the so far state-owned universities? This is not a concern about the form itself. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is because this clearly shows the direction of development, namely that instead of being State-supported, there will be more and more paid training. We are very concerned about this. The system of higher education should not only benefit the rich.
u2018-10-15-32	Congressman, I'd like you to finish your speech. Thank you.
u2018-10-15-33	Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-34	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2018-10-15-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I never thought that our fellow Member, János Volner, had insight into the future and that his political predictions would work. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Sit him next to you!]] but the subject of the speeches before today's agenda [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Is that the answer?]] As if it really was for the formation of the Jobbik-LMP Association, because you are trying to strengthen the same fake news, the same fake news, a never-ever Fidesz-KDNP government goal in the press to make it authentic, real in the wake of the news here, as LMP claims, and Jobbik claims, and it is obviously no coincidence that both of you chose this topic. [[14.00]] However, much has happened in the last week, from the increase in the care fee to the radically new legislation on homelessness that could have been discussed [[György Szilágyi: This is a profession, you don't understand!]] But you didn't choose those subjects. [[György Szilágyi: Professional question, you don't understand!]] but somehow completely accidentally, obviously not coordinated, among the dozens of topics offered, Jobbik and LMP found exactly the same thing. You're getting close, it looks like, until you get together. At least their parliamentary activities have been coordinated, which is clearly visible. [[Constant noise from the opposition benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That was a professional question!]] After all, he was led by a former MSZP politician [[Márta Demeter: Will you answer the question?]] the liberal party and the former national radical party somehow come together between the walls of Parliament. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: There is no one among you who could have told me, my friend!]] And in their Simicska Media campaign, [[Adam Mirkóczki: And Soros!]] Fake news is already so deep down, I believe that they can continue to do so here in Parliament. [[It's constant noise. Dr. Brenner Koloman: This is as far as you can go. Adam Mirkóczki: There's more down! Intruder from Jobbik's benches, this is ridiculous!]] As regards numbers and facts, honourable Member, now, in 2018, there are 276 thousand more people in Hungary who are graduates, who have a higher education degree, because while this was 17 percent at the beginning of our governance, this has now increased to 20.5 percent of the total population. And what is most disproves your argument that it is more difficult to get into higher education today, precisely the fact that the number and proportion of Roma-born students and graduates in higher education have doubled in recent years. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You've become two, haven't you?]] Those who were born in really difficult circumstances, even of gypsy origin, are now twice as likely to enter higher education as before. If you look at the numbers, honourable Member, how many people were hired last year, you will see 77 026. How much this year? [[Adam Mirkóczki: You don't believe that!]] 79 428, so the number of admissions increased. If you look at the number of state scholarships, you can see that this was 59 373 last year and 62 034. [[Zsolt Gréczy: During the Gyurcsány government it was over 100,000!]] So the number of state scholarships has also increased by thousands. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You've reduced it by 40 percent!]] If you look at the percentage of applicants and the age group who have received the recording, you can see that this number is about the same in recent years. Of course, there is training that rises. For as long as, let's say, in a year from last year to this year, there is more than 2 percent increase in proportion to admissions, if between 2015 and 2018, let's say, the number and proportion of people admitted to IT training are looking at a 35 percent increase. It doesn't matter either, honourable Member, what kind of degree you get, which is why we strive for, for example, a degree in IT to be given to as many people as possible, which is a sure living. You quoted an international comparison. If you would listen, I would also like to quote Labour Force Survey, which says that in some years the rate of growth achieved in Hungary was well above average compared to the average growth rate achieved in the EU countries. This other international survey says exactly the opposite of what you are talking about, honourable Member. You know that in the National Reform Programme, 34 percent of the juvenile population are going to colleges and colleges. This already reached 34 percent in 2015 and even exceeded it. You talked about the need for a raise in higher education. It was not supported by its fellow Members in the previous term, but Fidesz-KDNP did so: 15+5+5 per cent, 27 per cent wage increase was made in higher education, precisely so that teachers with the best skills and the better able teachers could be present at universities. Universities have been strangled, honourable Member, by the fact that PPP schemes have been inherited [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Are you still talking about this?]] These were to be replaced by this government. In 2016, we replaced 12 PPP projects worth HUF 29 billion, which meant an additional HUF 14 billion saving for these universities, .3 billion forints in 17 and 2 billion forints in 18. They are precisely promoting quality education in universities that they no longer have to moan, honourable Member. Meanwhile, if you look at the last five years, you see that the higher education resources have increased by nearly 40 percent, so that as many students as possible can get the most valuable degrees. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-15-36	Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, on behalf of KDNP, asked for a pre-meeting speech with the title "Another measure in the spirit of social justice." Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2018-10-15-37	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I trust that the theme of the speech, not the speech itself, the subject, is not wavering and resisting, but silent recognition. What's this about? Raising the care fee was a decisive step towards a cooperative and just society. Why did this happen? Because the principle of solidarity has been applied. In order to ensure solidarity, there are two things: the strong economy, a competitive country, and the hardworking Hungarian people. For a successful country can only be imagined as having all the social classes and groups that deserve it, and that is the definition of justice, so that everyone gets what is due to them. On the other hand, solidarity requires a sense of sensitivity on the part of the decision-makers, especially the support of those who need it most, and in this case the reinforcement of care-care-givers who help them. It is also worth seeing, of course, what has happened so far by raising this prize. There has been a 63 percent increase in the last eight years for those who can do the hardest job, since they have had the care of a relative who themselves cannot provide what is necessary for life. There was a 50 thousand HUF grant as a pension supplement to simplify this issue. But maybe we should look at what just happened. A new category of support has been introduced, which is basically due to the parents of children unable to self-sufficiency, and let us add that without age restrictions, because these children, if they grow up, need the same care. Let us immediately add that those who carry out this care will make the greatest sacrifice because they are on 24 - hour service. I would like to add right now that I do not run out of time: if we are thinking about what else is needed, then it is absolutely necessary to relieve the burden, so we should not only provide financial assistance but also concrete relief for parents. A system of services should be further developed that can assist those who serve this service during the day for 24 hours. But that could be next year's task. What happened today? So a new category of support, the child care fee, was introduced, which means a gross allowance of HUF 100,000 per month. If you take into account that there is only a 10-percent pension deduction, this means that the net amount is 90,000 forints. What's with the pension contributions? It means a period of service, so it also acquires pension rights. We also know that this support will rise to the amount of the minimum wage at that time until 22:00. The care fee is currently paid to 50,000 people, of which 17,000 children are raised, and therefore the support of the most deprived is justified. This means HUF 11.5 billion to the budget, which is more than what was published in the demands of civil society organisations at the time. I believe that this significant support not only for children's children, but also for the caregiver of all caring family members, will be given a raise that will make it easier and help their lives. But, of course, it is justified to continue this, as I have said, primarily in the area of services. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-10-15-38	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor again.
u2018-10-15-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As you have done, I believe that when we talk about this situation in life, first of all, we must really acknowledge the task, work, sacrifice of those who do it, care for their relatives at home. As you have mentioned, it is a constant help; it could be called a sacrifice rather than work, as it requires enormous endurance, strength, empathy, and many do so, either by caring for their own children or by caring for other relatives. Before 2010, we saw no increase in care fees for years prior to 2010, thanks to those who have now demanded the loudest increase. In both cycles of the Fidesz-KDNP administration, we have already added something to what the right holders could receive as a care fee: from 2014 we introduced a new category of the priority care fee, which also meant that those who care for their most difficult child, their relatives, have received a significantly higher allowance, as the Member pointed out, so that those in the most difficult situation received an increase of almost 65 per cent. But there is also health insurance, and it is also a service year, so it is included in the pension calculation for the duration of the pension. And it was also an important step forward to receive an extra HUF 50,000 for those who nursed their more serious child in their own household for at least 20 years. That's because, obviously, home care puts them at a disadvantage in the pension calculation. This kind of disadvantage was compensated by the extra 50,000 forints they could have received. And it's been demanded since then. This series of decisions since 2010 is part of the current government decision on children's home care fees, which obviously represents a noticeable increase in the increasing potential of the budget. As many people here in Parliament know and have followed, we said at the beginning of the summer that we will launch a series of discussions during the summer, in September we will present a proposal to the government that we will draw up, and the government will be able to make a decision on this in October. Thus, both the preparation and the decision took place during the autumn. Summer consultations took place in July, August, on the one hand, with civil society organisations that were primarily organized on Facebook, or with the. Let's move on! With the representatives of the Association, then with the National Association of the Autists, the National Association of the People with Mental Disabilities and their Aiders, the National Association of the Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Association of the Association of the Associations of the Disabled, the National Association of the Deafs and the Great Hearers, and the National Association of the Siket Blinds. These discussions were needed to bring us here to Parliament as well as a well-developed and good proposal. At the same time, and now, we hope, for the last time, to reject the opposition accusations which said that there is a disguise of real intent. Before our intentions, which affect tens of thousands of people, can affect tens of thousands of families, we considered it important to listen to those who will be heard. As a result, the Children's Home Care Fee will be introduced from 1 January 2019, the amount of which, as Mr. Group Leader mentioned, will be HUF 100 thousand gross. In the event that one or more of these children are taken care of in their own household, a child who cannot take care of himself, but here the child category is not only 18 years of age, but as long as the parent is a child, so it may be necessary to take care of the child at the age of twenty-thirty, because he cannot work, he cannot care for himself alone, and for them the amount of HUF 150,000 will be the amount of the weed. And like I said, we could be talking about children of adult age. And it doesn't stop here, but it lasts until 2022, which is the minimum wage at that time. It was also a positive decision of the government in the case of the others, since the surplus planned in the budget for next year for HUF 11.5 billion will be included in a series of additional increases, namely for those who are not entitled to the weed, but who have already received some previous care. In their case, there will also be a further increase of 15 and 5-5 per cent, which means that a total increase of 30 per cent will be made for them by 2022. I think the government has decided here to raise what those involved deserve. This kind of financial compensation cannot be measured in terms of the work and the humanity they have borne in recent years and will continue in the coming years, but it is an important step forward in the case of these social aids. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-40	Last up on the agenda will be Mr Csaba Hende, on behalf of Fidesz, on current issues. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Meeting of the European Parliament's Legal Committee, the LIBE Committee [[Gergely Arató: Not a legal committee!]] Another pro-immigration presentation has been presented. The most recent proposal is that migrants at EU Member States' representations could receive so-called humanitarian visas so as to allow them to travel freely to the European Union and take their asylum applications here. All of this without prior examination of whether or not they really are refugees in accordance with international law. It is quite clear that the pro-migrant forces are constantly working on how to bring more migrants into Europe even more organised. The Commissioner for Migration, Dimitris Avramopoulos, in Brussels, also openly stated at the LIBE Committee meeting that the enlargement of legal migration is an important element of the current Commission policy in Brussels. The same is reflected in the recent Commission proposal, which calls for a permanent resettlement programme, legal migration routes, border management and the examination of asylum applications in Brussels. When we think that some Brussels bureaucrats who represent this intention cannot come up with any more madness, they always prove that they can. He's a freak! This is exactly what motivates us and those who think alike to fight even harder on this historic issue. It is a matter of fate, honourable Parliament, in which we must give the wrong answer only once in order to bring an irreparable blow to the heads of future generations. [[Intervention from the opposition: Paks II.!]] The Greek Commissioner for Migration also repeated in the LIBE Committee last Wednesday that they wanted to legalise migration and make it easier for economic immigrants to work. Tens of millions of such so-called economic immigrants want to go to Europe only in the coming years from Africa. If Brussels legitimizes and opens the gates in any way, then this means that millions of Africans are leaving for this invitation to Europe, and we have not yet talked about the other regions. It seems that Brussels' pro-immigration leadership, which is living its final days, rather than abandoning such experimentation, is unfairly putting new proposals on the table to enforce its will. The pro-immigration forces in Brussels today until the European Parliament elections in May [[Péter Ungár: Who operates the stadium?]] They want to force everything because they are afraid, and rightly so, that after the vote, a majority rejecting immigration will have the opportunity to decide on this issue as well. The European Commission has therefore now published its programme on what they think should be done urgently, which is in fact a horror collection for the Hungarian people, as it concerns a permanent resettlement programme, the opening of legal migration routes, pilot migration programmes and the introduction of a humanitarian visa with African countries, and it would involve so-called NGOs in visa handling, take border protection away from the Member States and hand it over to Frontex, where they are no longer talking about border protection, but border management. The word border protection means the border we protect. And border management means there's something there that needs to be resolved somehow, arranged. I believe that the effective protection of the border is the most effective solution to address the issue, the most resource-friendly and secure for Europe's safety. Dear Parliament, We can expect strong debates at the forthcoming EU summit. On the pro-immigration side, of course, there is always a liberal faction of the European Parliament, which is constantly detracting and critical of the will of the Hungarian people. [[14.20]] An important result of the debates over the past years has been the emergence of the previously hidden Soros network, which is mostly similar to an iceberg, of which nine tenths are invisible because it is underwater. The existence of the Soros network has not been or has hardly been felt by most citizens. No one's authorized this network. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To influence people's lives. It is in the prime interest of our citizens to reveal these small, secret networks, to highlight the true purpose and nature of their operation....
u2018-10-15-42	Congressman, please finish your comment.
u2018-10-15-43	...and use the full set of national defence tools for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-15-44	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond again, please.
u2018-10-15-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this week will be the next EU summit, at which migration is not surprisingly one of the main items on the agenda. This basically destroys the emerging opposition claim that the migration crisis no longer exists and no longer needs to be addressed. So, since the case will be on the agenda, it is worth looking at what is in the tube here in Parliament, and what is the main thing in the Brussels pot with the words "immigration policy" on it. And if we take a closer look at the plans of what is on the agenda, it is no exaggeration to say that these are more harsh proposals than ever before, even though in recent years we have seen a lot of fallen ideas, but the current discussion of the proposal goes beyond anything, it is a real population exchange programme that they want to adopt. We have referred to it before, but a resolution has been published on the official website of the European Commission, which is where the plans are summarised, and the title of this is already telling: the expansion of legal migration opportunities, which is always tried to be denied by opposition parties. I will say so many times that we should look at what the European Commission is proposing: to increase legal migration opportunities. And they want to achieve this, above all, by creating a blue card system, thus encouraging workers and immigrants to come to Europe. There is also a report on the need for a pilot programme with African countries, preferably launched this year. But the story doesn't stop here, because the resettlement quota is slowly crawling back, for which 50,000 people are about to be distributed immediately, I would like to begin with. It is also written that the European Parliament and the European Council should agree as soon as possible. And not only does the European Commission push these ideas to support migration, but the European Parliament's Committee on LIBE, which initiated the introduction of a humanitarian visa, has also quoted a lot. Once again, we are talking about putting in humanitarian robes plans to support migration. And how irresponsible this is, it shows that the perpetrators of the bombing at Stade de France in Paris, the ax attacker in Würzburg, the bomber in Ansbach or the knife attacker in Turku, all claimed to be refugees when they arrived in Europe. [[Gergely Arató: What about the Teresa Boulevard bomber? Talk about that.]] However, the worst point in the migration package is that they would take away the right to border protection from individual countries, in order to give it to Frontex. We're against that. The joint implementation of these proposals would result in a full spread of the burden of the migration crisis between countries, completely ignoring the fact that there are countries such as the Visegrad countries that do not want immigration at all, either for economic reasons or for other reasons. From these plans in Brussels, it is clear that EU leaders are still unable to leave the framework of interpretation that, ultimately, immigration will solve economic and population problems. Only this can explain that they are constantly trying to create legal migration routes. In these days, several people are trying to protect Mr Verhofstadt, the leader of liberals in Europe. They also doubt that he wants more immigration, so I would like to quote exactly what he said and not try to excuse it. He said that we must also develop our legal economic migration policy, that we need young people from outside the EU to build the economy. These are clear words, so I would ask all opposition parties, all international players, not to try to deny it. So, by studying the Brussels migration package, it really makes sense why the Sargentini report was adopted in September, in order to weaken Hungary to make it easier for them to pass these plans. We understand what this is all about, but we do not expect the pro-government politicians to stand by and watch this plan and this effort. So, who is important in the country's self-determination, will be able to send a strong message by adopting a resolution against the Sargentini report, on which Parliament will vote this week. [[György Balla: That's right! Gergely Harvesto: We'll send you a message...]] And one more thing, my dear House: I didn't want to believe it at first, but the left was really throwing a party to celebrate the Sargentini report. He really did throw a party this weekend. [[Noise from the benches of opposition parties. Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Shame!]] It was organized by the Democratic Coalition and the MSZP, a big party, a big team didn't turn out because according to press reports, more journalists have appeared than participants. Tibor Szanyi said he knew all the participants who had left. I would just like to say that if you continue to join this country's discrediting action, and this is celebrated, there will be no too big a dance, and there is a reason for this: there will be no award for political forces that are [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In decisive moments, they turn their backs on their own country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. György Balla: That's right!]]
u2018-10-15-46	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-10-15-47	Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda on Tuesday: Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; László Varga, MSZP; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Istvávay, Jobbik; Miklós Soltés, KDNP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP. On Wednesday, Szabolcs Szabó spoke after the agenda: independent MEP and Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-10-15-48	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the office of State Secretary. I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to explain.
u2018-10-15-49	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that the mandate of Dr. Aniko Nagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, will be terminated with effect from 12 October 2018. Budapest, 8 October 2018 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2018-10-15-50	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Erik Bánki, author, initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures that the Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure on the savings banks for housing [[Moraj and interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] CXIII 1996 T/2600 on the amendment of Act T/2600. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Shame on you!]] The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third day following the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate shall take place on Tuesday, as item 1 following the speeches before the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Tuesday's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. In order to provide for an exceptional procedure, more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, must vote in favour. Now it's time for the decision. I'm asking you if T/2600 is accepted. The rapporteur's motion for an exceptional procedure for the application of this Regulation is to be read in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame on you!]] [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be submitted for 17.30 minutes. Dear House, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that the agenda of the Parliament's meeting be added to the 1996 CXIII on housing savings banks. T/2600 on the amendment of Act T/2600. By negotiating and adopting bill No 1 in exceptional proceedings, as set out in the proposal for an exception, the sitting shall take place at 8 a.m. on Tuesday and the decisions shall take place at 11.30 a.m. at the earliest. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will ask the appointed Economic Committee to: B/1704 on the operation of entities exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State in 2016, on the development of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Economic Committee to take its decision by 116 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of Commission officials and members will follow. S/2610 put forward by the President The personal proposal also includes a proposal on the Commission's seats for independent representatives. The presentation is available on the website. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/2610. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the personal proposals by 148 votes in favour, with seven abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:30 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. I remind you that I have excluded representatives of Szabolcs Szabó, Antal Csárdi, Krisztina Hohn, Márta Demeter and László Lóránt Keresztes from today's meeting. The Act on Parliament 48. A representative excluded from the sitting shall not speak again on the sitting day, pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 5. In this sense, neither an interpellation nor an immediate question can be presented. Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: å No proper training, is there a requirement? Will the government postpone the introduction of a regulation requiring a language examination as a requirement for admission from 2020? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-10-15-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the Government's 2014 decree, from 2020, i.e. in just a short year and a half, all applicants will be required to apply for secondary language examinations to the higher education institution. In this regard Jobbik, but several professional organisations, and even László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, have also made excuses, expressing the reversion of this government decree. Jobbik basically agrees that access to higher education can be expected to have a language examination, but we believe that it is necessary to ensure adequate training everywhere. At present, this condition is not in Hungarian public education, which raises very serious concerns. This is what the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights pointed out. Dear Secretary of State, The situation is that you make it mandatory to have a secondary language exam while not ensuring that students are properly trained to obtain a language examination within school frameworks. It is an experience that those who do not have the money for extra language education outside of school, for extra classes, start out at a disadvantage, so they may fall away from further education from 2020. The number of language exams may increase slightly in the coming years, for example, thanks to the free language exam proposed by Jobbik for five years, but it is not even the numbers that are decisive in this area, but the principle itself. Because if there is only one person who cannot meet the conditions because of his financial situation, because he cannot pay the price of language courses or special classes, it is unacceptable. Moreover, we are talking about not one, but thousands of people, who otherwise have the diligence and talent, but who are not adequately prepared for the language skills required for the examination of the language within the public education system. Even though they say that they have given us six years of preparation, the fact is that we do not yet have the necessary conditions, and this is also apparent from the disappointing results and statistics, because a survey shows, for example, that among the countries of the European Union, we are an army in the field of foreign language knowledge. Dear Secretary of State, By making secondary language exams mandatory for access to higher education from 2020, young people from poorer families will be further restricted and the silent reduction of higher education will continue. One figure for the latter: while in 2010 there were 361,000 students in the higher education system, in the 2016-17 academic year, this figure is only 287 thousand students. In six years, a reduction of 74,000 is much, much greater than the decline in demography would justify. It is finally time for you to see that there are no appropriate conditions to make the existence of a secondary language exam mandatory for access to higher education from 2020. I would like to have a clear answer to my question: will the introduction of 2020 be postponed so that access to higher education can only be achieved through a language exam? I look forward to your clear answer.
u2018-10-15-52	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am not an extraordinaire of the Conteos, but if most of the LMP Group hadn't banned itself, then you might as well have synchronized the power of your interpellations, as you have submitted the same educational questions. [[Interviews in the ranks of Jobbik: Everything! Imagine, we had the same lunch. We had lunch in the same place as the LMP!]] also before the agenda, at the beginning of the interpellations; this is an interesting change in Jobbik's communication or parliamentary operation. [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] At the same time, honourable Member, on this subject and on another subject, it is noteworthy that when they speak honestly among themselves at Jobbik's management meetings, we have heard from you that if there is a wave of exits in a party, then you are proposing to have articles written about the fact that there is a wave of entry in Jobbik, and I quote you: "There is this wave of exit, so to compensate for that, there was now an internal communication that more people have entered than the number of exits. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: How does that add up to the language exam?]] His fellow Members who were now shouting in and out, how good it would be for the commentators to get a copy-paste to stick it everywhere. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've done very well, congratulations! György Szilágyi: You take the problem of education so seriously!]] [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] At the same time, honourable Member, on this subject and on another subject, it is noteworthy that when they speak honestly among themselves at Jobbik's management meetings, we have heard from you that if there is a wave of exits in a party, then you are proposing to have articles written about the fact that there is a wave of entry in Jobbik, and I quote you: "There is this wave of exit, so to compensate for that, there was now an internal communication that more people have entered than the number of exits. (Interjection in Jobbik's lines: How does this come about the language exam?) His fellow Members who were now shouting in and out, how good it would be for the commentators to get a copy-paste to stick it everywhere. (Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've done very well, congratulations! György Szilágyi: You take the problem of education so seriously!) Well, you take politics and important national fates so seriously, that you and a copy-paste can work out what the commentators are putting in. (Interjection in Jobbik's ranks. ) On the other hand, we published a strategy, a change of grades in higher education, and we made a decision several years ago to promote quality Hungarian higher education. The strategy was also generally welcomed by opposition parties, and there was no such protest against language examination requirements at the time. Our aim is to have quality Hungarian higher education, and it is obviously an important element in this to improve the language skills of those already entering higher education, because if you already have language skills at the time of entry, then obviously, if you study a professional language or also take part in vocational language training, it will increase your knowledge, make your degree more valuable, more competitive. Because, honourable Member, if you look around Hungary, from Budapest to Debrecen and Szombathely to Nyíregyháza or Szeged and Pécs, new international high-tech companies will also appear, which are also at the forefront of the world's research and development, where learning such knowledge in a foreign language is of course an important aspect. And we can decide to give up being Hungarian young people in the leading position or at research and development position in these companies, and then come here from other countries, whether from remote countries, South Korea or elsewhere, who will develop and research in these companies in Hungary, come and be those who can make a good career in these companies in a foreign language, and who can earn a pretty good career in it, and then sit back, put our hands up; or we can set the goal that in Hungary, in the world-class companies in this country, those who can also hold a leading position, or are able to take the lead in development. That is why we said that language skills are important, and also because you know how many thousands or ten thousand students have their degrees stuck because they don't have their language exams. He's got the absolutorium, he's passed the final exams, if any, but he can't get his degree, because he doesn't have the language. This is why we have launched a wide range of programmes, academia programmes, and other programmes in which these young people have been able to obtain their language exams. In the free language exam program I am happy to tell you this, 21,660 people have applied for the support, 12 054 language examiners will receive it, and we were able to support the examination of Hungarian young people with HUF 351 million overall. With language learning, we spend 2.5 billion forints on improving the language skills of young people, and 924 hours in school classrooms that can be used for language learning. Our aim is to make this 924 hours more effective and useful for young people, and I think that this is what Jobbik's proposals should be focused on, so that Hungarian young people can really gain the language skills at 18 years of age. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2018-10-15-54	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2018-10-15-55	Dear Secretary of State, I understand that this is an unpleasant subject for you, so you started with obvious lies, and then you continued with misconception. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] its four-minute response, in which there was one word about the government's position on the 2020 deadline. The only acceptable answer would have been that yes, the introduction of this would have been postponed from 2020 and the conditions would have been created first, because we all agree that it is important to have a language knowledge, we agree that we need to prepare young Hungarians to be a competitive workforce for coming or domestic companies, but this should be possible within the public education system, and when there is such a set of conditions, this can be introduced from 2020. You do not do this, but you will introduce it from 2020 based on your response, because if you do not respond, you will probably continue to do so. This eliminates other children from poorer families, excluding students from higher education. Secretary of State, turn back from this wrong path and do not go in this direction, do not exclude these tens of thousands of young people from higher education. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-56	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 36 with one abstention. Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. How many evictions can take place before winter? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-10-15-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time we have come to you about the problem of eviction. I have in front of me my last year's interpellation, my previous interpellation, my fellow political groups, but I think my fellow opposition Members have been dealing with this issue regularly here, between the walls of Parliament and outside Parliament for years, which is a problem because, for the time being, it seems that no solution has been found during their governance. Winter is coming, and before winter comes eviction puts the affected families in a particularly vulnerable position. The situation is therefore critical, and if something is critical, then perhaps you have the least undeserving answers to these critical situations. I trust that I will now receive a worthy answer from the Secretary of State. And, yes, the critical indicator, I think, is no exaggeration. It is not exaggeration because according to the detailed statistics of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court of Justice, 3636 evictions took place in Hungary in 2017, while this number reached 1355 evictions between April and June 2018. The majority of these evictions occurred from debt-bearing housing, a category that has increased sharply in recent years. That is, every year thousands of families lose their homes because you cannot find a solution to this, or because you may have sided with the banks. You had only one solution in 2015, you can call it the KDNP's miracle weapon, the system of family bankruptcy protection, which failed that year, because we found that only 1300 of the tens of thousands of stakeholders were able to make use of this solution, because otherwise the completion of questionnaires themselves or the implementation of the law proved difficult. Dear Secretary of State, We also hear praises that you have saved the currency-loaned, the house-loaned, but the reality is disappointing. Even your central bank chairman, György Matolcsy, acknowledges that more than 72,000 debtors have been contacted by the banks in terms of implementation, but only 4 thousand of them have managed to reach some kind of agreement, somehow to settle this issue. Therefore, nothing has happened in this case since autumn 2017, and there are, indeed, tens of thousands of families at risk of eviction. So I ask you how many evictions may take place this year, due to their inertia. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-10-15-58	State Secretary Pál Völner will respond. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, There is always a little bit of a charm when I hear a speech about foreign exchange loans from the benches of the MSZP. Think back to the time when you drove over a million families into the currency loan trap by eliminating the previous housing support system, which was guaranteed by the state, and basically offered this cheap form of lending. Then we can remember that from 2008 to 2010, this problem was completely ignored, the loans of the families skyrocketed, the interest rates were gone, and again they did nothing, a new government, a new Parliament, needed us to reach out to this issue bravely. By the way, you have never supported us on this. You too, Congressman, have not voted in favour of the accountability of banks, nor of the forinting of foreign currency loans, for which you have voted against in particular. This can be seen clearly from Parliament's minutes. After that, I do not know what moral basis there is to ask any question about the government that saved hundreds of thousands of families from this bondage, which has helped more than 30 thousand families by paying back, counting banks, forinting, or even the introduction of an asset manager that has helped over 30 thousand families. You mentioned the private bankrupt institution, which is indeed a new legal institution, and it is more difficult for families to use. But we must also bear in mind that the moratorium on eviction was recently extended by this Parliament from 15 November to 30 April for the winter period, which was previously valid only from 1 December to the end of February, helping those who were the worst. We cannot speak separately of the fact that you are always talking about eviction and that this is being traced back to foreign currency loans, even though this includes executions against companies, when it comes to their apartments, or to evacuating apartments where the debtor has more apartments, even when they are voluntarily performing, in the case of municipal housing, where, for example, utility bills, common costs, child support, and for a thousand other reasons, there may be enforcement actions. However, it can also be seen that the data you quoted from the executive faculty shows that the number of executions is not increasing, it is virtually declining. Just last week, there was a statement by the President of the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court in the press, in which he provided the exact figures that show that implementations are already showing a downward trend in the number of flats evacuated this year. The other issue is that we will now clarify the statistics in a direction where I will be able to clarify the problems that I have raised; therefore, in fact, why, in what case, in the enforcement acts, it took place, from which credit it came, or was there at all such that what you are trying to sell as an eviction, you are going to be a police officer and you are really taking action to evacuate the apartment, they represent a small number compared to where, by law enforcement, virtually another solution has already come up, where you have been able to move to, and we are not talking about the drastic action you always want to deliver. We can also talk about the amendments where, in the interests of families and children, the notary has an obligation to notify that municipalities can also help families with the help of the social network, and to inform everyone within the state and municipal organisations of what assistance is needed. On the part of Jobbik, it has been mentioned several times that there are different legal problems with these procedures. Here, through legal assistance, there are numerous ways to prevent enforcement through judicial objections that are at the disposal of debtors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-60	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer. [[14.50]]
u2018-10-15-61	Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer. He's bringing in the currency loans again. I don't know how many State Secretary we need to hear that you saved the foreign exchange loaners. First of all, you introduced foreign currency loans. [[Noise, interruptions.]] And it has to be said many times. The first Orbán government's central bank president, Zsigmond Járai, introduced foreign exchange loans. Don't blame this on us. You introduced it. And then we had a proposal to save the foreign exchange loaners, and this was to save the foreign exchange loaners at HUF 180 Swiss francs, EUR 250. That's not what you did. They tried to save foreign exchange lenders at market prices, and it is no wonder that a large number of families could not take advantage of this opportunity. You saved yourselves, secretary of state, and the people who have money anyway. So I can't accept your answer.
u2018-10-15-62	I ask this House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When do you intend to improve the health situation that continues to deteriorate? It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor.
u2018-10-15-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Hungarian health care is internationally renowned and provides good care; we know this from the resigned State Secretary for Health. And that there have never been so many doctors in Hungary, directly from KSH and you. But let's see the real facts. It's a cliché, but it's true that the patients' fate depends on basic care. If it is delayed or at an inadequate level, it may only be possible to assist in passing. Compared to this, according to your October 1 data, there are 330 permanently unfilled GP practices in Hungary today, some 600 000 people belong to it; even in Budapest there are 19 and the number of empty practices is constantly increasing, and in Borsod it reached 43. Your government offers 12-20 million forints to those who take such a practice, but there are hardly any candidates. The number of permanent dental practitioners is 36 in Budapest and 245 in Hungary. So the shortage is enormous, which is well demonstrated by the state of teeth in front of us on the street. The average age of general pediatricians is over 60 years. Their number is constantly decreasing due to retirements and unfortunate deaths. In a few years, there will be no one to treat children with tonsil or middle ear infections, or even a milder playground injury. My colleague Zsolt Gréczy and I visited the rescue service. The appointment had been cancelled several times before; I hope it was not because the member of the EMMI, who had been paying close attention to all the words that were said, had not been able to attend first. In any event, the Director General stated that everything was in order. However, as we know from Jimmy Fülig, you can't put a traffic cop next to every slap, so you can't assign all the paramedics on duty to each one of them. We know from them that mass emigration, announced wage measures have barely increased actual salaries, and the equipment of rescue stations is deplorable. Paramedics are drowning in debt. So I ask Mr Secretary of State how they intend to resolve the shortage of numbers in health care. How do you intend to ensure that, beyond the VIP round, the Fundamental Law XX. What about the right to physical health guaranteed by everyone in his article? Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-64	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know whether, when the Socialist Government was charging people a visitation fee and you were one of the professional supporters of this, it referred to this section of the Fundamental Law, this section of the constitution at that time, which was intended to provide everyone with the highest possible level of health care. Do you think that when a patient has to pay a visitation fee when he visits his family doctor, it expands the range of people who can go to a general practitioner or keep the poorest people away from the doctor, and their illness will be much more serious because they do not go to the doctor in time because they do not pay the visit fee? You had highly innovative ideas, because you said that as we pay the parking fee through a mobile phone, we should pay the visit fee, and you wanted to take the lead at the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and you wanted to set an example in your own hospital, so that you can pay visit fees not only in cash but also in mobile phones. This would have been the constitution, the current Fundamental Law XX. Is the best way to pay visits not only in cash but also in mobile phones? But his attitude was worthy of Ferenc Gyurcsány, because in an interview he told a newspaper that he expected two months of arguing and noisy patients, and then they would get used to paying. It's like we heard Ferenc Gyurcsány talking about Kossuth Square: they're protesting for a few weeks, and then they're going home. And you said you'd be arguing for two months, making noise, and then you'd be paid. Would that have been the empathetic attitude to get as much basic care as possible and as many people as possible to see a doctor as soon as possible? Honourable Congressman, When you were in the government, you did this: you introduced a visitation fee and reduced the wages of doctors and nurses. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, You were talking about the GPs. What do you think an average GP in Hungary had in 2010? His practice revenue was 867 570 HUF on average. And how much this year, first semester of 2018? Against HUF 867,000, HUF 1 596 242. That's the difference between the way you've valued the general practitioners, the way you've tried to get young doctors on this field, to make a proper income for the practice, and that's the difference between what Fidesz-KDNP does. You mentioned the practice contest and the settlement application, which has not solved all the problem areas in recent years, but with the money we give to the general practitioners, 4 million forints for the purchase of the practice, and up to 20 million forints for the establishment, we managed to help 179 doctors in the field of establishment worth 3 billion forints, and 167 doctors for the purchase of the practice worth 852 million forints. You said that the teeth of the people who are coming to you remind you whether or not there was practice support. I think you should remind him of the Bokros package, because that's where people stopped teething. As a result of the practice competition and the application for establishment, 573,000 people, patients, managed to solve their general medical care and 175,000 people's dental care, since the practices that we have completed through these programs ensure that so many people are cared for. The care was solved everywhere, because if not otherwise, it was done by replacement, but in these GP districts it was managed directly from these programs. Also in terms of supplies: the residency support programme could have been launched before 2010, but it was not launched because they wanted to save money on health care, they did not want to deal with it. It could have been 100 and 200,000 HUF scholarships to young Hungarian doctors and medical candidates, but they didn't, and in the vocational gymnasium system and elsewhere, the roads of supply were only heavy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-66	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2018-10-15-67	Thank you, Mr. President. I am truly sorry, Mr Secretary, that our conversation has turned into a dialogue of the deaf. I asked you two questions, and as usual, I didn't get any answers to any of the questions. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I'd be happy to discuss things with you. The visit fee would have meant a maximum of HUF 3600 a year, and there were also a series of conditions. Of course, you don't quote that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're still defending him!]] However, based on current data from KSH, people take 65 thousand forints out of their pockets on average to support their own health care. You should tell me that too. I am truly sorry, Mr President, but I cannot accept the answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members and our guests. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I'm asking the Parliament if it's okay with you. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. [[15.00]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the Fidesz government close the doors of universities to young people who want to learn? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-10-15-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2010 there were more than 72 thousand state-funded seats at Hungarian universities and colleges, and in 2018 there were not even 60 thousand. Since 2010, there has been a steady decline in the number of higher education applicants and enrollers. The number of applicants fell by 24 percent, i.e. one in four university students disappeared from Hungary and did not appear in the system. What's happened is the government's been sneaking in on tuition all this time. As a result, the proportion of graduates among young people in Hungary, except for Luxembourg, has decreased in Hungary alone. However, this is not enough for the Orbán government. The whole public education system will be adapted in such a way that as few people are able to access higher education. Centrally dictate from 2019 how many students can continue to study in high school, vocational high school and vocational school. They're cutting off high school seats, and they're herding the kids to the demented high school and vocational school seats. This is coupled with the debauchery of primary education. Schools produce functional illiterates on an industrial scale. In 2009, Hungary was well above the OECD average, with a lower proportion of poor performers in the PISA test's interpretation tasks than in Germany or Belgium. By 2015, however, we have fallen far below the average, one of the last places is occupied by the Fidesz school system. Is it a miracle that even industrialists beg for the age limit of compulsory education? Because the Hungarian school is slowly no longer able to prepare the children for tape work at a assembly plant. Well, it's gonna take a lot more than that. 'Cause the tape work is going down. Robots are coming, and in the labour market only qualified, creative, flexible-minded people will manage. Meanwhile, the Hungarian school can teach less and less children to read. So the government has managed to completely derail education over the last eight years, but that's not enough. They are preparing for a transformation that results in fewer state-funded places in higher education. Not slowly, sneaking away, they would further reduce the number of state-supported places, as they have so far, but radically and proudly. In front of young people living in less modest circumstances, you would not only narrow down the entrance to higher education as you have so far, but close the gate, lock it and lock it on two. This is the worst of all their thievery, because they are now stealing the future of young people and are stealing the future of all of us, the future of Hungary. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to respond openly to what the government is planning to do, how the number of state-funded higher education places will be further reduced in the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2018-10-15-70	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-15-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At first I didn't understand your anger against Hungarian higher education and Hungarian students, why you fooled those students who are sitting in the gallery right now. Then I went to the Markmy Professor website and found out why you are angry with Hungarian students. That's where you were appreciated. You taught at the College of Communication, and like all instructors, you were appreciated. The following can be read about your classes, he taught social history at the College of Communication:. The audience was active at the beginning, we almost ran out at the end. Only the perseverant could hold their breath. It's not that exciting. Then there are those who wrote that their performance style is terrible, very monotonous, that the exam requirements and essay themes are published 3-4 days before the first exam, criminally slowly improving. A lot of people have said some more negative signs, and I'm gonna skip all that. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Your overall assessment based on the opinion of your own students is 2.76. [[Moore, loud noise, interruptions.]] and received the most critical evaluation of his performance, the average point of 2.3 in total. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition.]] That is therefore the reason for your aggressiveness against Hungarian students and Hungarian students, which may be the reason why you underestimate them, honourable Member. Not to mention that one speech contradicts another, because sometimes it talks about reducing input requirements, sometimes about reducing the curriculum, sometimes about passing on more knowledge. Honourable Congressman, If you reduce requirements everywhere in total, how do you expect young people to have more knowledge and useful knowledge? I would also like to rebut some of the numbers that you said, because when you said that the number of students was less than 60,000, you may have talked about an earlier year, but in 2018, 62 thousand students were admitted to state scholarships, while 59 000 students were admitted to state scholarships in the previous year. So there was a noticeable rise here, just like in all of his recorded numbers, not only in the state scholarship, but also in all the other recorded numbers, from 77 thousand to 79 428. As I mentioned today, IT was the largest increase, between 2015 and 18 the number of people admitted to IT training increased by 35 percent in Hungarian higher education. Overall, there are more graduates in Hungary today than there were in 2010. Their number has increased by 276 thousand. Those frame numbers or restraints in any high school or other training you're talking about don't exist, they only exist in your press, in your press bubble, Your Honour. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you quoted an international survey that tried to underestimate the performance of Hungarian students. But there is another international text understanding study in 2016, the so-called PIRLS study, which examines the performance of the 4th grade students in 50 countries. This shows a 15-point improvement between 2011 and 16 and here Hungarian students not only exceeded the 50-country average by 54 points, but are also ahead of German students by 17 points, and Belgian students by 29 points. Why do you not quote these, honourable Member, where Hungarian students perform well? Why is it only important to you that the survey where you can say negative things about Hungarian students can be said negative things about Hungarian teachers? Overall, we raised the resources of education between the budget adopted for 2010 and 19 by HUF 606 billion, precisely to give the growing generation the best knowledge, the best knowledge, not to mention digital developments, teacher and higher education wage increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-72	I'll ask Congressman Bence Tordai if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-10-15-73	Then, just so you understand the story of the Markmy professor when the Secretary of State is no longer able to answer. What happened here was that the so-called journalists of Origo, who made Fidesz's propaganda, went to the Markmy professor, scored, and then wrote an article about how harshly I was scored. [[Uproar, clarity, and sporadic applause in the pro-government benches.]] It's perfectly documented, you can look at it in the embarrassing article, you can look at the negative comments and the low ratings be quiet! [[It's an uproar.]] the date. So you're quoting this fake news here. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, he did not answer the substantive question as to why tens of thousands of Hungarian young people should be excluded from the possibility of free higher education. The Dialogue continues to set the goal of free higher education for 10 semesters. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We'll give you 12 now.]] So I won't accept your answer and keep it down a little bit. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2018-10-15-74	Thank you very much, Mr Tordai, therefore does not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 113 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Will the money stolen from the Polish state be provided? It's an address. Mr László Böröcz has the floor. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-15-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the news, the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office has ordered an investigation against Gábor Staudt and his associates for fiscal fraud, as it is suspected that more than HUF 2.5 billion of damage was caused to the Polish State. [[15.10]] According to suspicion, Staud and his associates organized one of the country's most important VAT fraud networks specialised in precious metals a few years ago. In the hierarchically built team, the simple soldiers pocketed about a thousand euros a month, while the leaders could share billions of HUF. The complaint details the methods of the gang, describing that they initially only cheated with silver in hundreds of kilograms of gold, sometimes ton, and later with special gold jewelry and platinum manufactured for this purpose. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] According to the report, gang leaders regularly carried firearms and were in daily contact with the most violent actors in the underworld. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] , including drug dealers: on one occasion, a color gold worth HUF 65 million was hidden at the drug dealer, which was seized by BRFK's staff during a search for another case. Dear Secretary of State, Although the criminal organisation was operated in Hungary, it did not damage the Hungarian budget, but the Polish budget, because it was hoped to avoid being held accountable. Is there any hope that the perpetrators will be brought to justice and that the damage caused to the Polish State will be repaid? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Wait! There's still time!]]
u2018-10-15-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to reply.
u2018-10-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to press information, as you said, a former member of a criminal organisation operating in Hungary has reported to the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office the MP Jobbik, as well as two former Lieutenant Colonels and several associates of the National Bureau of Investigation, on suspicion of budget fraud at the expense of the Polish State. According to press reports, the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office has ordered the investigation, and it is possible that the Polish authorities will be interviewing the reporter as a witness this month. I would like to inform this House if, in Hungary, a person enjoying immunity based on immunity or international law is prosecuted in the Member State of the European Union or is considered to be involved in such criminal proceedings, CLXXX of 2012 on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. The provisions of law shall prevail. Under the law, enforcement may be refused in the event of the execution of a European arrest warrant or a European Investigation Order in Hungary if the person affected by a procedural act is granted immunity based on immunity or international law in Hungary. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] has not been suspended by the holder. Before refusing to implement the decisions referred to, the court or the prosecutor's office shall act on its own initiative to suspend the immunity of the person concerned by the procedural act or his immunity based on international law. On this basis, it can be said that, in the case of a Hungarian parliamentary representative, the decision of the Parliament suspending immunity should be available to carry out the criminal proceedings or certain part-actions of the Member State authority. For your information, Dr. Gábor Staudt can only be a suspect in criminal proceedings if his immunity is suspended by Parliament. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Gábor Staudt is a leading member of the Hungarian opposition party, who is responsible in the Hungarian Parliament both at the time of and at the moment of his commission as a Member of the Parliament of Jobbik. Mr Staudt has played an important role in the group from a professional point of view, with whom we have always been able to engage in constructive professional debates, whether during parliamentary debates or during the seven-party negotiations. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] As you know, we have been hearing more and more about the news and scandals surrounding Jobbik in recent times. In the case mentioned in the current interpellation, it is not yet possible to know whether or not Jobbik's party politician has received this money. Personally, it would be very disappointing for me, too, if the statements that are currently in the press were to be made about a Member. [[György Szilágyi: Any requests received from anyone?]] At the same time, if the information on the Member proves to be true, the question arises who is left in the Jobbik faction, who is not involved in various embarrassing, dubious matters. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Why aren't you investigating, Mr. Secretary of State?"]] In summary, I can say that, contrary to Jobbik's position, which has always opposed immunity, the opinion of this House cannot be prosecuted against any MP in the Hungarian Parliament without extradition. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-10-15-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I accept the answer. In addition to Staudton, Marcell R. Sándor was also a member of the gang, who was included in the list of left-wing cooperation in the colours of MSZP in 2014. [[Defiance and interrogations from the opposition benches.]] One of the leaders of the organization was the retired Lt-Col of the National Bureau of Investigation, László F., who was supposed to be one of Gábor Staudt's narrower trusts. Staudt and F. have reportedly had serious plans, and Staudt, I quote, wanted to get to the post of Minister of the Interior at least. In order to play an increasingly serious role in Jobbikon, he was reported to need a significant financial background, which he wanted to quickly create from this VAT fraud. If the news is true, this also raises the question whether the money stolen from the Polish state was also in the register of Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Uproar, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: "supplier, politics." Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor.
u2018-10-15-81	Well, yes, the speech I just spoke could have inspired my speech on "Policy," [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]] , but I do not want to talk about this right now, but about NHKV Zrt., which, as a state coordinating body, is to establish and develop a uniform system for the territorially optimised and service quality of the waste management public service, according to its mission statement in 2016. The aim of the company is to preserve the results of the reduction of the rent, and to do so, it carries out its legal task, i.e. it collects the fee and pays it to the service providers. However, it is a regrettable fact that NHKV Zrt has failed to achieve its goal or its task. After its formation, it has blocked the otherwise well-functioning billing system for many months and has caused serious supply disruptions in the supply of waste from the very beginning. Since then, there has been a constant problem with collecting the fee, but mainly by transferring it to public service companies. Let me now highlight just two examples to prove this. One of them is Green Bridge Ltd. This is a case in which the press reports that it will be forced to reduce its supply of tasks in just days, because the money collected by the state by kukaholding is far from getting back to this regional company from which it would normally be possible to operate. Thus, they do not have the resources to replace equipment, such as buying new cars or recultivating them. The Green Bridge pays wages, work clothes, fuel and taxes, of course, but nothing else. Forint 130 million a month is missing from funding its operation. The other example, which concerns even more inhabitants, is that of the Budapest public service provider, the FKF. To date, this company has not completed its 2017 business report and balance sheet, because NHKV Zrt. He did not pay his debt in 2017, i.e. FKF Zrt., this year, on 2 October 2018. Last year's certified performance, i.e. 13 billion forints in total. As a result, in order to at least be able to pay the workers and fuel the garbage trucks, they were able to meet their public service contract only with a significant reduction. I ask you, Secretary of State, who is responsible for the situation and what immediate steps and measures are planned to take to avoid the collapse of the waste transport system. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.20]]
u2018-10-15-82	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-10-15-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for your question and concern about the operation of waste management, but I must say that you have nothing to worry about, because the government has transformed the public service in such a way that it can provide people with the highest possible quality of service at the lowest possible price. Let me point out in detail that the aim of the transformation of the public service system is to ensure a sustainable, long-term functioning and high-quality service while ensuring cost-effective operation. The primary objective of the government was also to preserve the results of the reduction of costs, to fulfil EU waste recovery obligations, while reducing the amount of waste to be disposed of, and to exploit the economic potential of waste recovery. The objective of central coordination would therefore enable the most efficient provision of tasks in the public service and would encourage public service providers to ensure a higher level of service. Since the emergence of public coordination, selective collection has evolved in line with EU objectives. At present, the link between the public service fee and the costs of the public service provider for the payment of the so-called service fee has been re-established. The public service providers in the current system do not depend on the payers, as NHKV Zrt. pay the service fee to public service providers. NHKV Zrt. continuously ensure the financing of public services. To answer the specific cases, Green Híd Kft. requested a review of its service charges for 2018, which is currently underway. The company submitted a request to NHKV Zrt. to review its costs. This can be concluded by the end of October, according to my information, on the basis of the plan of measures provided for in the Agreement. NHKV Zrt. support the task of the company with enhanced cooperation. The discussions with FKF Nonprofit Zrt. and the leadership of the capital are ongoing. As a result, FKF Nonprofit Zrt. His financial accounts for 2016 and 2017 were closed as far as I know, and last year's accounts were published. To sum up the situation of the waste management public service, it can be concluded that, while keeping retail charges at a low level, the service is continuous and that one of the most important objectives, the reduction of fees and the low level of fees, are met and met. According to my information, the supply of priority areas is provided by NHKV Zrt. in cooperation with service providers, to ensure that there is no disruption in the transport of waste and in the management of waste. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2018-10-15-85	Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, I cannot accept this answer, not even because this is a question in which propaganda is not enough, not enough government hurrahoptimism, because the garbage is still rotting out along the roads. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] No green waste, no selective waste supply, no take-off! Let's face reality. The truth is, I think the Neapolitan Mafia would be crying for a recipe for how to destroy a multimillion-dollar retail service in this way, so quickly and so effectively, because when you talk about efficiency, you really just forget that efficiency in this case means that in a fast, modern way, well-paid employees will deliver garbage in time. In fact, he didn't even name the person responsible, let me do this for you, this good man is called József Weingartner, one of your State Secretarys, let's say, the Secretary of State, who used to be the CEO of Kukaholding, but is now so dignified [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Now he's a secretary of state. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-86	Thank you very much. Congresswoman did not accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Employment of People with Changed Work." Congressman András Aradski has the floor.
u2018-10-15-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to free choice of work and occupation and to contribute to the growth of the community by working in line with their abilities and opportunities. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary strives to create the conditions for every able-bodied person who wants to work to work. This includes citizens with disabilities, whose employment has increased from 18 per cent in 2010 to 40 per cent in 2018 as a result of the measures taken in recent years. 350 accredited companies already employ about 30 thousand people with disabilities, and this number can be further increased with the support of appropriate measures, since increasing their employment is not only economic but also social. Such measures were, for example, support for the rehabilitation of the workplace, wage and cost support or the provision of labour market services. The budget for next year, adopted at the beginning of the summer, was also taken into account, as it was emphasised that the government's aim was to enable everyone who can and can work, and therefore, for example, the tax package contains a number of changes affecting the labour market. From 1 January 2019, for example, they may benefit from more targeted tax incentives. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to note here that 22 information and coordination centres have recently been established across the country in a project of more than HUF 3 billion to help people with disabilities, including workers with disabilities, with complex services and up-to-date information. Dear Minister, In addition to increasing social spending, the Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes this trend, and I respectfully ask the Minister: how do you appreciate the government's efforts so far for our disabled fellows, what additional support can they provide to them or to their employers in the near future, or how can accredited employers be expanded? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-15-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, as you said, job opportunities and job opportunities must be given to everyone, and not only do we generally say that unemployment is low in Hungary, employment is record high, female employment has not been so high since the change of regime, it is also accompanied by the fact that there has been tangible progress in the case of people with disabilities, as we have managed to increase this rate from an employment level of 18 per cent to 40 per cent. More than doubled the number of people who had previously been unable to reach their full potential, and who were not encouraged by the employer as a disabled person, and who were not hired or employed by the workplace, were more than doubled. We needed a targeted government programme, a help that was obviously accompanied by an additional resource, and it could also increase their employment noticeably, which is not simply an opportunity to generate revenue for a person who has changed his ability to work, but simply a sense of equality that is at least as important to him. We can serve his human dignity by creating the opportunity to participate in the work, and, as is normal, of course, with a higher degree of financial security. In the context of supported employment, whose rules were renewed in 2012, an accredited employer may, on the one hand, have employment and, on the other hand, can also participate in development employment. The accredited employer is also accompanied by budget support for rehabilitation employment under protected conditions. [[15.30]] The amount of budgetary support which may be used to cover the additional costs incurred by labour costs and the employment of persons with disabilities increases year by year. If we look at how much this was, let's say, in 13-14, this amount of HUF 34 billion was also indicated by the congressman, this year it is HUF 41 and next year 42 billion. So in 4-5 years there was a 20-23 percent increase, and we can see a surplus of 7-8 billion forints. Since the introduction of the rehabilitation card in 2012, more and more people have been able to benefit from it. There was also an increase in the number of beneficiaries. In 2012, 3217 employers made use of this, now 9125, so much higher, which is a nearly threefold increase. Three times as many employers are now able to employ a disabled person with a rehabilitation card contribution. The number of people employed is much higher than this because there were 5574 employees in 2012. This is now 37 245, so while the number of employers who employ people with disabilities under the rehabilitation card discount was nearly three times the increase, there was an increase of 6.7 times, so there was an increase of almost seven times more than six times. These benefits and these increases are behind the employment rate rising from 18 to 40 percent. In addition, income is allowed up to 150 per cent of the minimum wage in both cases. We also wanted to involve 13,000 people from EU funds in the programme of people with disabilities and support for 8 000 people with disabilities. We spend 14 billion forints on this. A separate programme was also launched to create access to professional and public services worth HUF 3.3 billion. You asked me about the future too, honourable Member. From 1 January next year, the possibility of receiving tax and contribution reductions will be simplified. They can be enforced directly under the tax procedure, so employers are freed from administrative burdens [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the availability of cards and the possibility of becoming an accredited employee is open to all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-10-15-91	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As you have said, I am told that the possibilities of our disabled citizens have increased impressively over the past eight years. This is also necessary because there is a significant shortage of labour in the country and the labour market situation requires that as many people can work under market conditions as possible. This is well served, as you said, by increasing both the number of employees and the number of employers who work. In the future, what should be done and strengthened is that as a government-level programme, a comprehensive proposal should be made that, by creating innovative, digitised jobs in the modern world, can apply even greater numbers of people with disabilities in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: "The Secretary of State is lying? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2018-10-15-93	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, before the great plenum, mentioned, in relation to hospital waiting lists, that the number of people standing in line is falling commendably, and called before the great plenum that there are about 28,000 people waiting for various surgeries. At the same time, going to the competent website, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager's website, shows that about 36,000 people are waiting for surgery. The statistics also show that cataract surgery, as Mr. Secretary of State said, has to wait for some 45 days, but at the same time, if you look at this statistics, you have to wait an average of 87 days, but there is more terrifying data. The North Great Plain has 199 days to wait for a simple surgery. By knee replacement, Mr Secretary of State says that the waiting time is 137 days, but on this website we see that 340 days, almost three times the waiting time as the Secretary of State claims. In North Hungary, this time is 571 days, almost four times what the Secretary of State says. For a hip replacement, you say, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have to wait 104 days, but at the same time I see that the average waiting time is 279 days. That's almost three times what he said. And for a major orthopaedic major surgery, here in the statistics, it was said to wait 400 days, but at the same time it appears that in South Transdanubia 792 days. I ask Mr. Secretary: what is the truth? How come there's such a big difference between the statistics you read, the website you run and the Secretary of State's response? What we see is that a lot of people are forced to go to the private sector, to private orders, and to have surgery done in institutions that do so within significantly shorter deadlines. But you're gonna have to pay hard. So if waiting lists are reduced, it's not just because the public supply system works well, but because a lot of people can't wait their turn. For a simple image diagnostic test, you have to pay between 20 and 50 thousand forints on the market, for a simple surgery between 300 and 400 thousand forints, for a more complicated operation you will be asked for 800 thousand forints and 1.2 million forints. This is what awaits the Hungarian people, we see. This will be the health of the future. Once again, I ask the Secretary of State: how is it that you use completely different numbers than those available on the website of the institution to which you belong and accessible to the general public? Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Korózs. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-15-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you had asked me the whole length of the question whether the former Socialist State Secretary of the Gyurcsány government was lying, when you say the following, which you have listed here, you can safely say yes, because you are not telling the truth when you confuse basic concepts. But it's no wonder, because Ferenc Gyurcsány, your prime minister, told us that we lied in the morning and in the night and in the evening. You're just supplementing it as Secretary of State, I see, with the afternoon. women had two directions on the waiting lists, and they moved in two directions. On the one hand, no national e-list register has been established that can be followed online. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It wasn't necessary.]] ; precisely so that this is not transparent, so that the system does not be that the person who checks in takes place, and that the order is developed in a timely manner, or obviously in the light of the severity of the case on the basis of medical considerations, and that it is not transparent. They left a system of small plaid notebooks in the institutions. On the other hand, it was the visit fee and the hospital allowance that you wanted to reduce the waiting list. They tried to keep people away by trying to make health care pay. That mathematics is not your strong suit, we have experienced in the last few days, honourable Member, because you have claimed that the waiting lists have never been as long as they are now. According to this, you claim that now that 28,000 people are on the waiting lists, the number is about 28,000 higher than 70,000; because 70,000 people were on this waiting list when the waiting list was established after you completed the possibility of governing; 71,903 people, in particular, on the 1st of October, were on this waiting list. Where do you slide, Your Honour? Since I see that in the language of numbers, basic operations, it's difficult to explain to you, I'm trying to tell you with a text assignment what you're slipping into when you say a higher number than that. If you go into a store, you put the things you want to buy in your basket, and you get in line, the three of them stand in front of you. We say there are three in front of you. You're the fourth, the one who's gonna get there. But you're telling me there's still three people wandering through the shelves in the store. So, actually, the number of potential payers is six, so you're the seventh, which is why you're giving me a higher number, honourable Member. The difference between the waiting list and the institutional booking list is that the waiting list contains patients who have a specific date when they are operated on, and you add 8,000 people who do not choose the earliest time for surgery. [[15.40]] Usually because another procedure is performed before it is done, because more intervention is required, and he will also have a second or third surgery, which will be later, but he does not ask for the earliest time, just indicates that he will need such a second or third intervention later. That is what you are distorting, honourable Member, or that it is obvious that the planned intervention date is usually later than the actual one. People get on the waiting list before they sign up for registration. In this way, it is better to look at the closed years and semesters, honourable Member, and it is better to compare them. I'll try to do that quickly. In 2012 the waiting period for cataract surgery was 90 days, in 17 it was 45 days, in 18 it was 46 days in the first half of this year. This is a decrease of nearly half. In the case of knee replacement, the waiting period was 241 days in the year, 137 days last year, 123 days in the first half of this year. That's the halving of it. In the case of hip replacement surgery, there were 180 days at the start of the waiting list system, which decreased to 104 days last year, and to 86 days in the first half of this year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Here, waiting has decreased by less than half, and we have also introduced that if one hospital is shorter and the other has a longer waiting period, 10 percent of the costs can be spent on travel costs if someone else is not in his county, in a county next door. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-96	Mr. Secretary, forgive me, my patience is infinite, but I am bound by house rules, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Lajos Korózs to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-10-15-97	Well, he wasn't telling the truth now. Point 8 of the Ten Commandments: Secretary of State, study it, be so kind as to study it. I don't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2018-10-15-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why do they ignore Hungarian women? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Oláh has the floor.
u2018-10-15-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, More internationally recognised research has demonstrated in recent years that companies that employ more women decision-makers are capable of better economic performance. Today, not only experience but research shows that women in positions of responsibility often handle conflicts better and act more calmly than our fellow men in taking risks. Believe me, it's not impossible for a woman to leave the kitchen-cleaning-room-parent triangle. In Europe, mandatory female quotas for public companies have been started by countries such as Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Austria or Germany and could continue. Hungarian women do not fall behind from their European counterparts either in terms of skills or qualifications, yet they have an abnormally low number in decision-making positions, whether it be directorates, fbs or management. You are harming Hungarian women and harming the Hungarian economy, as more women decision-makers would make better decisions and our economy would be more efficient and more efficient. You are not doing anything, and you are not even letting us Hungarians in Europe do something at least. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Virgin Mary! European Hungarians!]] The Democratic Coalition and I have tabled a bill on this issue six times in my own name, but the governing parties have rejected even the series of articles. I suggested that women be represented 40 percent in the management of state and municipal companies. If you don't include anything in a series of subjects, it means that you think it's not worth talking about, it's not worth talking about. You do not respect Hungarian women and are not willing to give them equal opportunities or equal pay. You do not want to ratify the Istanbul Convention, and you voted against it in the European Parliament in the case of a decision on violence against women. It is fortunate that Europe thinks differently because 90 percent supported it, unlike you. Look around Europe. They can't even find a state firm, not even a parliament, with as few women as they do here. Why is this difference between Europe and Hungary? Why don't you let Hungarian women get the respect and treatment they receive in the economy in most European countries? Why do they think that Hungarian women are worth less than Germans, French or Finnish? Why don't you support women's quotas for state and municipal companies? Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-15-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're talking about why women aren't 40 percent in decision-making. I looked into your faction, the DK faction. There's only men sitting in this faction right now, and you're talking about [[A statement from DK: The Agnes!]] Why don't you... How many ladies are sitting in the DK faction right now? Not a single lady sits. There are only men in the DK faction to 100% when you demand higher female participation, honourable Member. Compared to that, if I go back to the EMMI for a ministerial meeting, there's a women's surplus between the State Secretarys and the professional leaders. Then I remembered your party president, who, let's say, is not here right now, Ferenc Gyurcsány's statement from 2004, who said that anyone with an old wife would rather replace him with a younger one. Was that DK's respect for women? Or it also occurred to me that in February this year, in the heat of the election campaign, you held a forum where I remember your party president telling me that there was no violence by migrants against women, and during that time you were laughing at your campaign forum. When Ferenc Gyurcsány decides to replace old wives, is that your respect for women? When they laugh about violence against women at their own campaign rally? Is this respect for women, honourable Member? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The Gyurcsány raped them!]] I believe that this also shows that you were about to meet someone, or that you would like to show in Brussels that you had a speech like this, but there I will not know how to announce on the video of your speech whether DK's female representatives were present on this or not. In recent years, we have taken several decisions to improve the situation of women, and we have even included in the Fundamental Law, which you do not support, that Parliament can and has taken measures that are more favourable to women than average, such as 40 for women; or, for example, that student loans, if three children are taken, will be fully released. They all show respect for women, because they are the decisions they have taken, which you have not supported individually and overall. For example, the Women 40 would not have hurt to vote for DK's representatives, but they did not vote for it. Not to mention that if you look at government measures or the ged extra, your graduate or the job protection action, when we introduced it, they were not supported by the opposition, not to mention nursery development. If you look at the OECD statements, you can see that the growth rate of female leaders in Hungary is higher than the OECD average, i.e. the most advanced countries. If you look at how female employment has increased, you can see that it has risen from 49.8 percent to 62.5 percent, and women's employment has risen to record height in Hungary. Your list is all about what has been removed, what has been used by women; from regular child protection support to family tax relief for families with one and two children, and for families with three and more children, reduced the amount of tax benefits available, shortened the number of children, tightened the eligibility conditions for children, or even restricted the creation of homes to the detriment of families and family mothers. On the other hand, we have introduced new type of nursery, precisely because women who want to return to work before the child's three-year age should also have a mini-cradle, a family nursery, a nursery at work. For kindergarten development, kindergarten development in the order of a hundred billion HUF, we will spend a total of 110 billion in order to make the situation of women as much as possible so that they can decide for themselves what they want to do. Among Hungarians aged 20 and over, the proportion of women with a degree was already higher than that of men with a degree in 2016. According to Eurostat, even quoted by Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, we are in the fifth place in Europe in terms of the number of female leaders. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Lajos Oláh if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[15.50]]
u2018-10-15-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was surprised, Mr. Secretary, I thought you'd start by saying that I had a sign in kindergarten and that I had a schoolmaster's warning, and that that's the point of your answer, but it seems that, for once, communication and TEK haven't dug deep enough at your request. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was very weak!]] I see it must be my fault that you didn't understand the real content of the question, but you probably don't understand not only the question, but also the real situation of women. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I refuse!]] Dear Secretary of State, You have not answered the question, for a word, why you do not support the female quota for public and municipal companies. He did not answer why the Istanbul Convention was not ratified and why the decision on violence against women was not supported, so I cannot accept his answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-104	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 17 against and 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What are our latest family support measures? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2018-10-15-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We in Fidesz-KDNP have been working in recent years to strengthen families, to give parents, future parents, young people, as much support as possible, to have children to raise children. As a result, families have been receiving increasing support from September to September in recent years. In Europe, so in Hungary, social solidarity is based on solidarity within the family, the roots of which lie in the Christian spirit of Europe. Our priority is to help mothers, future mothers, families more strongly than ever before. Last year the government left some HUF 1775 billion in the family, 182 billion more than in 2016. Thanks to the family discount, the parents saved an average of HUF 277,000 in taxes only last year. Last year's amount of HUF 283 billion is more than 20 times what Balliberal governments gave families as tax breaks in their last year. It should be pointed out that every year more and more money remains in small children. According to preliminary calculations, thanks to the increase in the two-children's discount and the continuous increase in earnings, the family discount saved up to HUF 310 billion this year. We introduced the family tax system, the family tax relief, the ged extra, and gave the three-year-old child back to the mothers. We support families with more money than ever before, and we help families with more children to reduce debt, mortgage debt and student loans. Together with the increase in the minimum wage, we also raised the amount of ged and ged, as well as the amount of baby care and childcare premiums increased significantly in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is also clear from the above that we want to make Hungary a family-friendly country where mothers and families with children receive all possible support to take responsibility for children and raise children. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what further support we have for the families [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] so that as many families as possible can have as many children as possible. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-106	Thank you, Congresswoman. In response, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, Bence of Rétvári.
u2018-10-15-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, 2018 is the year of families, so the rate of family support is another record, since the budget now includes HUF 2004 billion, which is aimed at supporting families. If you looked at this amount in 2010, you found only HUF 1038 billion. So what we want to devote to Hungarian families here in Hungary has doubled, which we have been able to collect from multinationals and other companies as additional taxes, what we can provide from the growth of the Hungarian economy as an additional resource in the budget, we are trying to give most of it to Hungarian families, give it back or not to withdraw it from them, because we believe that this is in Hungary's best interest in the long term. In the year of the family, the cord programme was launched, which allows Hungarian families living abroad to claim maternity support and young people's early life support for their children. We want to tie them even stronger to Hungary with this umbilical cord, and they will receive these subsidies even though they live abroad. The most important perhaps, which was also a topic today, is the child's home care fee, a kind of extension of the care fee, since the raised and high-value care fee previously served to support families where there was a child who could not care for himself. In the past, this has resulted in a health insurance relationship, a retirement period, and a pension bonus of HUF 50,000 for families caring for such a child at home. But with the government's decision last week, in addition to the care fee, the child care fee will appear in cases where someone is not necessarily under the age of 18, they may take care of their children over 18 at home. Their prize will be 100,000 forints, but in the event that more children are taken care of at home, it will be one and a half times that, 150 thousand forints, and, as I said, it will not cease when the child is 18 years old. It is also important that this measure is for several years, not only a one-off increase, but, in the coming years, the government will gradually increase the amounts covered by this measure by reaching the minimum wage by 2022. The minimum wage has risen radically in Hungary, and has already been nearly doubled, so it will also mean a much higher value in 2022. It is important that not only the 17,000 families with children who are unable to take care of themselves fully or in no way can expect this additional income, but also a further increase in children who are milder but also need care and attention. Next year, from 1 January to 15 percent, and in subsequent years to 2022, there will be an additional 5-5-5 percent increase in care fees, so that 33 thousand families can expect an increase of approximately 30 percent in the coming years. As you pointed out, the tax relief of two children continued to increase in the year of the family. Here, too, we can talk about a doubling in several years. This year, nearly 2500 people have applied for the KRESZ course and exam fee, so others have already been paid. The budget includes 3.4 billion forints. The compensation for the first exam was also requested by 21 660 people, of which 12 thousand applications have already been evaluated, and we were able to reduce the burden on families here by HUF 351 million. Every year, the government will strive to reduce the burden on families on an ever growing scale. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Mónika Dunai whether she accepts the State Secretary's reply.
u2018-10-15-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State's reply, I accept that. You also mentioned the year of families, that this year we celebrate the year of families in Hungary. This response also showed that Fidesz and KDNP have not only one year of family year, but we have been working since 2010 to make the year of children every year and every day and every moment of it. Our goal, and the answer, underlined that we are on the right track when we set ourselves the goal of strengthening families, reducing their burdens. [[16.00]] We want to give families every opportunity to so that they can have children and not be burdened with having children. With all due respect, once again, I accept. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-15-110	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. In the Year of Families, is there a grandfather in the family with a grandmother? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject, asked Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman Tamás Pintér.
u2018-10-15-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has recently launched a national action with 40 years, 40 arguments. We wanted to know how Hungarian workers would react if, after 40 years of working, men, like women, could retire. Until the beginning of the month, our action was announced, and hundreds of responses were received. For more than six years, we have been asking the Fidesz government to finally create this opportunity for men, but perhaps now, given this overall social need, you will take action. It is a unanimous request from both women and men to finally bring justice to our pension system. This discriminatory situation is becoming increasingly urgent for everyone and calls for a quick solution; I repeat, a quick solution, because three out of five men in our country today are not worth the retirement age. Dear Secretary of State, Do you know how many grandkids can't play with your grandpa because he's working, or because of the early deaths, he can't do that anymore? Do you know that there are men who pay their pension contributions for 40-50 years, but they don't get a penny because they die, what-before they enjoy the peaceful retirement years? And the widow's pension is only a fraction of the amount that would be due. Do you know that there are families where no other grandkids are born because there is not enough grandparent support? And do you know what the burden of Hungarian social security is on older, broken-up workers who can only deal with the complications of diseases in their retirement years? Unfortunately, we know your extremely weak reasoning technique, but for once it is very important that you give an honest answer to everyone instead of the memorized texts, so we ask you to leave the conjecture that we have not voted for, for example, the VAT reduction or the Budapest programme, because you can also look for a better solution in any case. But don't come with the pension premium, please, because we support the help of pensioners, but on the one hand, the rising prices are not offset by the small financial aid, and on the other hand, this is not what we are asking you about. We would like to know whether men are also planning to retire after 40 years of working. I would also like to ask you to spare us in your reply the foolish accusation that Jobbik did not vote for the. Women 40, because you know it. [[Zsolt Nitrai: I did!]] that even then we wanted men and women to retire regardless of gender. [[Zsolt Nitrai: There was no mention of it!]] After 40 years of employment. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You did not vote! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-15-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-10-15-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We heard another argument on the part of Jobbik, which was rather weak, why they did not support the introduction of the Mr President, however many solutions you try to come up with for this communication dead end, you will not. It will be very difficult for you at any time to justify the fact that the button you pressed here in Parliament actually meant yes, only you would have said yes twice, so you didn't. Honourable Congressman, That is the sad reality, because this is really sad, because it was a question that could have been supported by all parties in Parliament in the year 2010 that when women were given the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment and after their period of child rearing, Jobbik's faction, like the other opposition groups, did not support this. We did this because women who are having children have to endure in several places; not only at work, but also to a greater extent, they have to do the job of raising children at home, and their physique is much more used by the child. Therefore, recognising that Hungarian mothers have a double standing, we have introduced the 40, and that as grandmothers, they can help their children to take on some of the tasks of raising grandchildren as soon as possible. We have also stated in the Fundamental Law that more favourable measures for women can be taken by the government and Parliament. Women 40 is precisely such a measure, where we want to put women in a better position. But for everyone, it has been beneficial for both women and men that pensions have risen far above inflation in recent years. Overall, pensions have increased by 29.8 percent, which means that the purchasing value of pensions is now 10 percent higher than in 2010, both for men and women. It was also important that the Hungarian budget spent 129 billion HUF on pension supplement, pension premium and Erzsébet vouchers between November and March 18. This rise was important for both men and women. It was also important that we were able to help those older than 55 years of age in a difficult phase of the economic crisis who struggled to get a job more difficult if they were dismissed. The job protection action plan has helped seven out of ten employees who are about to retire and most of them were men. This also helped men to get a job and a higher pension. How you think about pensioners, we learned from Gábor Vona. In July 2017, he wrote it on his Facebook: on weekdays, nice uncles and aunts jump out of each other, want to shed blood with their trembling hands, yell at me, and excite all the traumas of the 20th century. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. László György Lukács: All because you watch TV2!]] They pulled their little shopping carts behind them and didn't embellish them, their eyes were filled with hatred, and their mouths were covered with sewage. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how you talk about those who retire after 40 years of employment or more than 40 years of employment. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Brainwashing!]] And now they're trying to show that even though you didn't vote for the VAT reduction and the Women's 40 and many others, you're still friends of pensioners and old men. Honourable Congressman, I think it is rather the friends of older people who pursue an economic policy in which pension premium of up to HUF 18,000 can now be paid, and an average pensioner can expect a pension premium of HUF 18,000 at the end of this year. We could spend 41,3 billion forints on this. If we had accepted Jobbik's economic policy proposals, this would never have happened. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-15-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Tamás Pintér if he accepts the State Secretary's reply.
u2018-10-15-115	It's quite amazing, Mr. Secretary, that you're making a political issue out of people's lives. [[L. Simon László: Jesus!]] But while we're at it, we could also talk about how Szolnok's Fidesz mayor, Ferenc Szalay, talked about how invaluable he was about old people. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's it! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Because Gábor Vona is invaluable?]] But we could also talk about your propaganda, Zsolt Bayer, who wanted to beat up a group of elderly people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Because Gábor Vona is invaluable? Does that mean?]] You know, if I were you, I wouldn't say anything if I was aware of that. But then let's talk about what you didn't vote for. For example, they did not vote for an increase of the minimum pension to HUF 50,000. They didn't give the pensioners their 13th month's pension back. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's right!]] It's been erased and they don't want to give back the possibility of early retirement. [[György Szilágyi: Yes!]] You will put these people to death, but better or worse, into sickness. I think, Mr. Secretary, especially in the year of the families you've announced, that every family needs a grandma and a grandpa. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-15-116	Thank you, Congressman Pintér. He didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if they'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes to 32, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. When are you ready to help those who have been injured by credit? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2018-10-15-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In September, the European Court of Justice ruled that the Hungarian courts could examine the exposure of the exchange rate risk of foreign exchange loans to the client and declare the contractual terms in question unfair if they were not clearly and intelligible to the borrower. [[16.10]] The EU Court of Justice provides more assistance to foreign exchange lenders, and it could be said that the EU Court of Justice has sided with the Hungarian government against the Hungarian government, which makes it possible to examine whether the bank has properly informed the parties concerned or whether they have been trapped in the fine prints. This may even lead to the annulment of contracts. Foreign exchange victims whose problems have not been solved for several years, perhaps decades, can get another chance. While you buy luxury castles, your friends spend time in your hunting castles, dozens of people are on the streets every day. While lying to them to solve their problem, they have been waiting for the truth for almost a decade. Dear Secretary of State, With the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the Hungarian Parliament was given another chance to finally provide real help to those who have suffered credit damage. For example, there is no need to go too far, and the court of neighbouring Croatia has clearly stated that the exchange rate risk lies with the banks. You can take examples not only of Croatian football, Mr. Secretary, but also of helping Croatian credit victims, where the government can help you get advice, Mr. Secretary of State. If you weren't on the side of the banks, the situation of the credit-damaged would finally be settled fairly after a decade of waiting. That is why I am asking, Mr Secretary of State, what the Government intends to do after the judgment of the EU Court of Justice. Do they follow the Croatian example and place the exchange rate risk on the banks against the Hungarian families? It's the year of families, Mr. Secretary. You think it would be a good time to act like one. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-15-118	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-10-15-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, If the congresswoman had interpreted precisely the beginning of the text she had written for her, she might have found out that the court had said that the court could interpret this part, examine the circumstances in which the contract was concluded, and that it was the responsibility of the Hungarian courts. You are always concerned that the government or even Parliament is interfering with the functioning of the courts, and you, ignoring the respect of the powers, are here with exactly a proposal where you say that instead of the court, we are doing it individually, that we should, say, review the 1 million foreign currency credit agreements and make a decision on this basis. That's a very interesting point. I don't know how much of this Congresswoman would be able to take, or what degree she has. The members of the Hungarian courts, the judges, now have the power to do so, they have the knowledge to do so, and they can examine these contracts individually. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Fundamenta...]] In response to previous speeches, I have already informed you several times, that virtually every case can be completely different, and it cannot be determined in professional terms, on the basis of general rules, who was present in that actual case at the time of the contract, what information was given to them. According to the contracts described, this can be reconstructed, but what actually happened is part of a court procedure. There are witnesses to be subpoenaed, there is written evidence, experts to be used, and you make it seem like the simplest thing in the world to do is to click here and solve this problem. Not to mention, as I said earlier, I consider the attitude of the MSZP to be a bit hypocritical in this matter. After 2002, you virtually closed the state-supported housing loans, from which you could buy apartments on a HUF basis. I note that some of your ministers have made good use of this opportunity at the last minute, and this is, of course, part of the completeization of the picture. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties.]] They practically forced Hungarian society, not only in terms of housing loans, motor vehicle lending and all kinds of aspects, to use foreign currency loans [[The constant interruptions of Zsolt Gréczy.]] And this debt trap was planned to be put in front of them. Then, when the krach hit in 2008, the global economic crisis came in, it turned out that the banks were not our friends, but those who took advantage of us, when the interest rates were gone, the exchange rates were gone, and you also knew that banks were charging costs unfairly, that they realised unfair profits in exchange rates, that they did nothing, that they did not convert loans into forints. I note that there is a reference here to all kinds of exchange rates: the National Bank had the same foreign reserve when President György Matolcsy converted the loans into forints as was available at the time of András Simor. Yet you were cowards, or were actually on the side of the banks, and did not take this step in the interest of the credible, which would have been entirely obvious and logical. Instead, they took a large loan from the EU, the World Bank, for three years, of course, to burden taxpayers in the new government, doing the rest. Returning to the whole issue, the problem is that you refuse to account for your own past, your own actions, and when you do not vote for the accountability of banks, forintification, end-payment, the National Asset Manager, and the countless measures that the government has taken for those foreign exchange-credited people who shed crocodile tears here, it is a little incomprehensible to me how they dare to ask us such questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-15-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]]
u2018-10-15-121	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept it. You know, Mr. Secretary, your Attorney General is protecting the banks against the victims. [[Interviews from the benches of the governing parties, including László Szászfalvi: You did not pay attention!]] The Croatian government took this step on its own to save those who have been harmed by currency. Mr. Secretary. What kind of professionalism are you referring to? The house savings will be bled out in one day and passed through Parliament. What kind of professional material is there, what kind of background agreement? [[Dr. Pál Völner: They can't win at the last minute!]] What can you show us to explain this tomorrow? Mr. Secretary. He refers to the fact that there aren't enough professionals. There are so many secretary of state, deputy secretary of state, government commissioner, ministerial commissioners sitting in the government. In Europe, there is no government in which so many people sit and do nothing but pass the laws that are good for you! [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties.]] Get them to work, and then you'll have someone to help the credit-damaged. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-15-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. When will Hungarian businesses be put into position? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-10-15-123	Mr President, Dear House, When you're looking at statistical data, you find shocking things. When we examine why the competitive disadvantage of Hungarian businesses, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is so brutal, we find part of the response in the way that this government has treated multinational companies since 2010. If there is anyone in this room who is not sympathetic to the economic policies of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, to say the least, it is me, but I must say, if we compare it to how much money [[Noise and clarity in the benches of the governing parties.]] What a source of support you have, who are now laughing yes, and press a button and respond to it! , how much resources have been used to support multi-enterprises [[Moraj and intervention in the benches of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't you read the house rules? Towards the benches of the governing parties:]] And by the way, you could spit out the chewing gum when you say it, and you could also say that by examining the jobs created by multi-company companies, the Fidesz governments averaged 7.6 million HUF per job in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. It is possible to argue about what professional criteria are hidden in the background, but even if we look at the amount of non-refundable resources these multi-enterprises received from the two successive Fidesz governments by individual government decisions, we will look at the data series from 2011 only, as we will see that the previous transitional decisions are taken out of the system, the Fidesz governments have provided HUF 255.6 billion in public money under the heading of non-refundable job support and infrastructure investment, while the former MSZP governments have provided HUF 130.2 billion. [[16.20]] So what we see is that the multi-company caressing has taken place across governments and does not calm down, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are at a brutal competitive disadvantage. If we look at the productivity rate of domestic companies, we see that from 2010 to 2016, this has increased from 1.25 percent to only 1.49 percent, and is by far the lowest in the region. The most bled-out group is the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose total tax rate is still at brutal level. Despite the minimum reduction, this fell from 52,4 per cent to just 46.5 per cent. So you are holding back the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, not even allowing them to become the workers of the assembly plants you have called here. It would be entirely justified that, let us say, small Hungarian businesses whose bureaucratic burdens are enormously high could be put in the position, despite the measurable, but still cosmetic, reduction in the number of vehicles that can be used for the establishment or licensing of the site, or even by facilitating the use of the company's motor vehicle. And we should also consider in this Chamber how, in terms of strategic contracts, where the slow levelling of pay was not required for multi-enterprises, it is possible to renegotiate by means of which Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are put in the position of freeing funds. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-124	Thank you, Congressman. The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-10-15-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I didn't know from which faction the question was asked, from which faction he asked the question, I would have thought that an MSZP representative was asking this, because the old socialist tempo was trying to confront certain groups and interests. You paint a false picture of the economy as if multinational companies and domestic small and medium-sized enterprises could only grow at the expense of each other. Yet you know that these businesses are complementary players in the economy. Or, if you don't know, ask the tens of thousands of Hungarian workers, to whom large companies work as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. Ask Hungarian SMEs whose operation is ensured by stable orders from large companies increasingly relying on them. As an opposition representative, he is likely to consider it his job obligation to deny the undeniable results of the period since 2010. The experiment is futile, every unbiased observer understands that the Hungarian economy has been growing in excess of the EU average for many years. There's never been as many people working here as they are now, and wages are constantly rising. We have only achieved this through successful small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, so we support their growth from the beginning and reduce their burden, thus their situation has been improving for eight years. The average tax burden of 52 per cent in 2010 decreased by nearly quarter to 39 per cent. Mr President, on the government that has reduced the corporate tax rates to one of the lowest in Europe, from 19 to 9 percent, Mr President, he called for a reduction in the entrepreneurship burden. We have raised the tax exemption for SMEs to HUF 8 million, and we have put the public burden on employment on a permanent downward path. The introduction of kata and kiva constructions both provided an opportunity to reduce the tax and administrative burden on smaller enterprises. These opportunities are now being used by nearly 330 thousand businesses. He's banging open doors with a reduction in the administrative burden. Do you not remember the mass of administrative cases that have been one-stop-shoped or digitally dealt with, the notification procedures that have replaced the authorisation, the reduction of the administrative fee? As far as development policy is concerned, between 2011 and 2017, you will support the SME sector with HUF 45.5 billion specifically in creating new jobs, resulting in the creation of 24,000 new jobs. From the EU funds of the operational programme for economic development and innovation between 2014 and 2020, we supported 14,000 development projects of 10,000 companies with nearly HUF 2300 billion. Comprehensive programmes have also been launched from domestic sources, such as the supplier development programme, the industrial strategy support of the Irinyi plan, the construction aid scheme or the start-up industry 4.0. Honourable Congressman, The results achieved are indisputable, but not enough. Our aim is to ensure that by 2020, the added value of Hungarian SMEs will reach 65% of the total domestic added value, while the productivity of small and medium-sized enterprises will increase to 81 percent of the large enterprise index by 2030, while the added value of the SME sector will reach 45 percent. We have done and will do much more for everything. We intend to act on a different scale than what you have raised in your question, in your interpellation. That's why I'm asking you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-126	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. I ask Mr Dániel Z. Karpa if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2018-10-15-127	Mr President, Dear House, I cannot accept this response because it contradicts the statistics produced by the Hungarian National Bank Manager sitting in this room, Mr State Secretary. You're falsifying the MNB's competitiveness reporting data for 2017, when you're making a difference of more than 10 percent, no one knows where you're coming from. He read about a paper, but it doesn't even match what he said with the Magyar Nemzeti Bank data series. If we believed you, we could tell the couple to live, well, everything in your country is fine. Secretary of State, let us be clear: we need multi-companies if we are to comply with the rules and submit to public burdens. The fact is that the burden of public burdens is not being achieved, which you are leaving behind, and in doing so, you are trying to paint a better picture by forgery of statistics. Student workers, public workers and workers working abroad are counted among the newly created jobs, with hundreds of thousands. It is a shame what they are doing, while the Hungarian quality well-trained workforce is constantly moving out of the country, and we are in the midst of a demographic twilight, where the number of living births continues to decline. You can't be proud of this certificate, Mr. Secretary. For the success of Hungarian businesses in Hungary, much more should be done. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-128	Thank you. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask whether the Honourable Parliament will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We're going to move on to immediate questions, since the interpellations have run out, but before that, there are two order of business applicants. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár. I ask you to put your point of order in the same sentence.
u2018-10-15-129	Mr President, Dear House, The reason why my colleague, Mr Kósa, could not have said that this could not be said is why a public school is being built in Debrecen because your predecessor, László Kövér, has banned my fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, because we have not been able to exercise the rights of the group, and we have not been able to exercise our rights as representatives. We ask that the next meeting of the House Committee be discussed on how much they can make impossible for those with whom they disagree. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-130	Thank you very much. I would ask Congressman Ungar to submit this question to the House Committee. I give the floor to right-hand congressman Gábor Staudt. In one sentence!
u2018-10-15-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How much time do I have?
u2018-10-15-132	You can ask the question in one sentence.
u2018-10-15-133	Personal involvement.
u2018-10-15-134	Then you'll have two minutes to say what you have to say.
u2018-10-15-135	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to László Böröcz. We saw in the campaign that Fidesz entrusted Fidelitas and its president with the lie propaganda. We've won over 150 press cases since then, by the way. It doesn't seem to be any different. You couldn't beat up Jobbik, so they're trying to hunt down their representatives one by one. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Clearly, Fidesz can't clean itself, they can't undo their own sins. What can you do? All opposition representatives, their opponents, are being framed. You could have talked about it, and you, László Böröcz, as President of Fidelitas, could have talked about who would repay the hundreds of billions of forints that were stolen by the Fidesz neighborhoods using mafia methods. [[16.30]] And it's not a press conference, that's what OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, has said. I can't place an attack on my person other than a habony type of lie propaganda, we've seen a lot of this in the House. I have committed no crime, nor have I gone further, my fellow Member, nor have I been aware of the fact that our colleague, who, by the way, I have not known for many years what is going on with him, has not been in contact with us. I don't know about that either. In this case, what God gives, I've already won a lawsuit. It can be added to our 150 won lawsuits, and otherwise I wish the Polish authorities good work. I would like to add that I will also make use of the false accusations against them, and I will ask that anyone who accuses you of any crime in front of them or the Hungarian authorities should consider it a false accusation, and that they should act and punish the perpetrators. I will examine the legal possibility of meeting Mr Böröcz in court. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-136	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Staudt. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to the immediate questions, I must remind the Honourable Parliament that the Members of Szabolcs Szabó, Antal Csárdi, Krisztina Hohn, Márta Demeter and László Lóránt Keresztes were excluded from this meeting by the President of Parliament. [[Peter Ungár applauds.]] The Act on Parliament 48. In accordance with paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative excluded from the sitting shall not speak on the sitting day. In this sense, they could not, nor could they say, interpellation or immediate question. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. János Stummer, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr János Stummer has the floor.
u2018-10-15-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, You took your oath here in this room four months ago, and when you swore, you took special responsibility for making a lot of lonely and vulnerable people better. Minister, you are a Christian-valued man, an honest man capable of taking responsibility for the poor and the fallen. When you took this oath as a minister, you obviously knew what you were doing, you knew what responsibility you were taking on your shoulders. Since then, it's been four months, Minister. I would like to ask you how you account for your oath, how you account for these four months, when, when you turn on the TV, you see that from September again 1400 teachers are missing from Hungarian schools. I am asking you, Minister, how do you account for this oath you took four months ago, when news is coming in the Hungarian press that now complete classes and classes of doctors are quitting in hospitals in Hungary. Please, Minister, I'm asking you whether you've gone into the Prime Minister's study on one occasion and fought for these people. Did you fight for the teacher, the student, the doctor, the nurse, the patient or the need for poverty? Did he fight for the people you took responsibility for? Did you once tell the Prime Minister who put you in a ministerial velvet chair so that, for once in your life, you would care not only about the left-hand side and not just about the middle field, but also about the chemistry teacher and the anesthetist? Did you do that, Minister? Look, I know it'll take four months. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And for what it's worth. I know that in four months, you can't do everything you can, you can't do anything you don't do. But it's too much time to just shift over a minister. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-138	Thank you very much, Congressman Stummer. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler.
u2018-10-15-139	He has been answered many times to his specific questions; responsibility has not yet been answered. In my approach, every man is responsible for himself, responsible for his family, responsible for his nation, and responsible for humanity. In addition, all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, so we are responsible for you and why you are responsible.For 26 years, I have been directly responsible for thousands of patients I have treated, and I have been responsible for the 700,000 patients I treated every year in my institute. The Hungarian government is responsible for the present and future of the nation; the Hungarian opposition is also responsible for the constructive and helpful opinion of the government's activities, the avoidance of destruction, confusion and chaos. I quote Klebelsberg to this: We all bear responsibility for what we have done or opposed, what we have written or said, because it is there and cannot be changed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Everyone interprets their own responsibilities according to their conscience and fulfills them at a higher ethical level than the law. Conscience is a category that means that, under all circumstances, with all my thoughts, I serve my fellow man without any self - interest. I did that for 26 years, and I'm not gonna change that. I did it out of love because it's the highest quality of human life. I have to account for my own conscience, account for the opinion of posterity and final judgment, because one day everyone will be tested. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After Augustine of Hippo, I'm free to say that I live as if everything depended on God, and I work as if everything depended on us.
u2018-10-15-140	Thank you, Minister.
u2018-10-15-141	It's authenticating me. Congressman, it's open. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-142	Thank you, Minister. I'll inform Minister that I had to ring the doorbell for house rules. He had two minutes. I give the floor in return to Congressman Stummer.
u2018-10-15-143	Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your answer, but I cannot accept what you said. I asked you clearly: have you been in the Prime Minister's study for the past four months? Not a report, but to fight for the people you took responsibility for. You are responsible for the health and education of an entire country. Since these four months passed, do you know how many ten thousand Hungarian families have received 52 thousand forints of care? Do you know how many families in Hungary have lost a father or a mother to a hospital infection? Do you know how many Hungarian families have been torn apart because there is no possibility for a child to receive decent Hungarian education at his place of residence? And after four months, you came into this Parliament, you came into Parliament, and you gave me an opening speech. I don't accept your answer, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-144	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Kásler has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-10-15-145	Honourable Congressman, Free country, everyone can say whatever they want. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I have consulted with Prime Minister quite a lot, he knows these problems, the government knows them, and I know them. If you follow what happens, you can express the answer to yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-146	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. The President appointed Mr István Nagy as Vice-President to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the President for the answer in person. [[16.40]]
u2018-10-15-147	Thank you, Mr President, I accept your response.
u2018-10-15-148	Thank you. Congressman Mesterházy will take the floor.
u2018-10-15-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Tax Chamber in the back of this box. They came today to listen to the position of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank on some important issues, because according to the laws of 2014, the legislators, the Fidesz government, left a loophole for the banks to fully pass on the exchange rate risk and all the burdens of this on to the borrower, i.e. the Hungarian families, which is why many families have been put in such a position that the danger of eviction is hanging over their heads. In this connection, I would therefore ask the representative of the Hungarian National Bank whether you believe that the banks have a responsibility in this situation, whether they have examined the banks' responsibility for the information, whether they have actually provided clear information on the risks, how much their advertisements were based on a scam; whether they have examined the risk of granting such a loan to a client, whether the banks have acted with due care when analysing its financial position, the income situation of the debtor, in light of the fact that there is such a exchange rate risk. This is the first topic. The other is whether it is true, as I know it, that you have issued a resolution that is about you not being able to calculate the direction in which the Hungarian forint's exchange rate will change in the future, you cannot appreciate it, and therefore the banks cannot do it either. These lawsuits were decided by the way, and therefore the banks were relieved of their liability; in the meantime, the debtors were expected to take a risk for this, because they would then be able to calculate the risk. I have one more question: why do you think that the forint has not been strengthened for the previous period, if the economy is raging, there is no economic crisis, and if you have a responsibility under the central bank law as to the exchange rate at which the country should manage? So, overall, I would like to know if you believe that the banks have acted fairly on this issue. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2018-10-15-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. The house rules apply to you, too. I'm sorry I didn't fender bender. I give the floor to Vice-President István Nagy.
u2018-10-15-151	Thank you very much. He's asked a lot of questions, but let's stick to the problem of foreign exchange credentials. If the question of the rate at which foreign exchange loans were to be converted into forint loans and whether they were made at the appropriate rate, then my answer is yes, because there is a decision in Mania that foreign exchange loans could be converted at the market rate at the end of 2014 or at the beginning of 2015 which regulates this. So if you ask what is the legal basis for the exchange rate, once again, for foreign exchange loans, you should look at the Mansion, because it is his job to say it, and he said it should be done at the market rate. However, another question that you have asked is whether the banks have properly informed the debtors of the exchange rate risk they are running, and in this case, according to the recent decision of the European Court of Justice, the courts must examine, in accordance with individual lawsuits, whether the bank has signed an appropriate risk-finding statement. With regard to these statements, it may be said that the client has become aware of the exchange rate risk or not. Besides, the fact that we're wondering where the exchange rate could go and where it's going: please, the National Bank itself doesn't get involved in such speculations. We always say that every day, the exchange rate that the market is developing is the one that we always say, so where the exchange rate goes, the market really knows. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Mesterházy.
u2018-10-15-153	Thank you very much. Then the budget is in a lot of trouble, because the budget also determines an exchange rate that makes it count a lot. So if this were the case, as you say, they would have nothing to do with this, then there would be no plan in Hungary for anything related to foreign currency or foreign currency. By the way, the Forinting Act wasn't the Curia, it probably missed you. But basically I asked you that you issued a coin, I found it in my pocket: the year of the family, a 50 forint. So I guess you realize that this problem affects a lot of people. When you're told to calculate and prove to the debtors what kind of problem they have, please, one of these [[Shows:]] All debtors should produce 270 pages of material with the problem of having no money for the repayment. To do such a calculation in 270 pages, very few people have the money to do this. Therefore, your role in this is inevitable. And I asked you once again whether, according to you, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, the banks acted fairly on this issue. If you think you do, then you're in the bank's pocket, not just the Fidesz. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-154	Thank you, Congressman. The vice-president shall also have the right to a rejoinder.
u2018-10-15-155	Two things at the time, you also missed the fact that, yes, there was a law on conversion, but according to the Curia's guidelines. So let's not try to figure out that suddenly the Government of Hungary came up with a law on its own; there was a guidelines from Curia before it. So let's try to stay on the ground of credibility. The fact that you are talking about a problem should not be forgotten that during 2014-2015 the Hungarian government, the Hungarian National Bank, together with the banks, and especially the government and the Hungarian National Bank returned a thousand billion to foreign exchange lenders, on the one hand through an increase in interest rates and a cut in exchange rates. So I don't know if when you say they weren't concerned or left, that's not true. Today there are 114 thousand families with non-performing loans, and a significant part of it has been very much helped by the asset manager. So in all these steps, this foreign exchange-credit problem is no longer a problem. It is, once again, what is contained in the contracts, and that is the duty of the court and the contractual relationship between individual clients and the bank. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor.
u2018-10-15-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to ask my question as a former head of the institute. Mr. Secretary. In the intensive care department of the lips hospital, the nurses ran out one by one, like the musicians in Haydn Farewell's symphony. Even though the head of the institution tried to solve the problem by redirecting it, intensive care, we both know, is a self-employed profession, it was not possible to carry out the tasks with the untrained nurses. The five doctors working there therefore requested the recruitment of staff, the reduction of the increased burden and the increase in remuneration, and subsequently resigned as a body. If we want to understand the case, we have to assume that without anesthesiology and intensive therapeutic care, there is no functioning hospital. The laws of supply and demand in this area are also harsh, and four of the five doctors, as entrepreneurs, have undertaken to pay much higher than the civil servant's salary, as we know, for this task. However, these processes are indicative. They're indisputable elsewhere, and it's only a matter of time before they reach which hospital. You, who replaced your seat as head of the institution with a ministerial velvet chair, had to be aware of this, so I ask you, did you count on this phenomenon when you adopted the post; what are you planning to do to stop this process; and what makes you think that the clearly centrally issued, disincentived speeches by the Secretary of State of Rétvári, sitting next to you, have reassured anyone in the field of health? I look forward to your reply.
u2018-10-15-158	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler.
u2018-10-15-159	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the Member's suggestions point to a real and living problem. [[16.50]] His lips did happen in a hospital somewhere else, because in my institutional practice, this did not happen in 26 years. The staff of the Institute is extremely stable. Of course, people came and people went, but the staff didn't change. That means to me, there's no way to trace back one reason why people leave a hospital. There are obviously many reasons to play a role, there are material aspects and there are other aspects, there may also be professional aspects. As a minister in this story, it is my responsibility to refer back to the Member's question, that the hospital should function, and that the other hospitals should operate. Indeed, at the beginning of September five highly qualified nurses left the hospital, and on 20 September five doctors also left the hospital. Yet the management of his lips hospital solved the problem, and the work was constantly secured. The nurse issue was also solved with high-qualified nurses from internal resources, and the medical staff could be consolidated after 1 October when the five doctors' notice was over. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So in this sense, I can give you a reassuring answer that the hospital has been operating continuously, continuously and continuously. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-160	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Imre László.
u2018-10-15-161	Thank you, Mr. President. On 20 September, the five doctors resigned with a period of one and a half months, which means that at the moment these five doctors are working at the lips hospital, so I agree with Minister, that care is ongoing. On 6 November, I informed the hospital in advance of my intention to go down to Ajka. By then, the month and a half will be over, how they managed to solve this problem. When I was informed, I was practically told that there were ten applicants in the five places within days. Anyone who knows the real situation of this profession in Hungary is so incapable, I can't tell you anything else, he found himself lying about this information that can't be classified. They buy these people for gold. I sincerely hope this is the real situation that everything will be all right on Aika. Thank you.
u2018-10-15-162	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves Minister Kasler.
u2018-10-15-163	Thank you very much. In fact, I agree with the suggestion and remarks made by my fellow Member. As a relief, I would like to mention that on the 11th the agreement was made with seven doctors out of ten applicants who will continue to work at the same level later on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-164	Thank you, Minister Kasler. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Why doesn't the giant companies pay taxes while Fidesz tax the working people into ruins? The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I will ask Congressman Bence Tordai whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-10-15-165	I accept the response, thank you.
u2018-10-15-166	Thank you. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-10-15-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is a tax haven for giant companies, only for working people. When you introduced the single-key sja, it meant that small-income people, but even the average incomers, had to live it as a tax increase, since the tax credit was abolished, people had to pay more personal income tax, and then let's not talk about 27 percent VAT on the world record. Meanwhile, large companies had previously reduced their 19 percent tax rate to 9 percent, and we know from a central bank analysis that 70 percent of the value of this reduction was in the pocket of large companies, 14 percent for medium-sized companies, and only 8-8 percent for small businesses and micro-enterprises. But the situation is even more serious, because tax incentives, especially the support of the Prime Minister's soccer teams, will draw even more tax revenues from the pockets of Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian budget. This means that based on the 2019 budget figures, companies pay on average 5% corporate tax, but it is even worse if we look at giant companies, the 11 largest companies pay 0.35% tax. Companies producing one quarter of GDP pay 2% of corporate tax. Allow me to quote a sentence of the Fundamental Law adopted by you:. Everyone will contribute to meeting the common needs in accordance with their ability to hold a load and their participation in the economy. Well, that doesn't look like shit. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You're so cool!]] Looks like the less anyone can handle the load, the more they get around the neck. You strangle working people, strangle small businesses, and favor giant companies. Instead of the interests of 99 percent, they represent the interests of 1 percent. Question: What percentage of the tao discounts do large companies use, how much are medium-sized animals and how much are small companies and micro-enterprises? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-10-15-168	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-10-15-169	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz government has always followed the tax policy of reducing taxes, reducing public burdens, giving businesses more opportunities, but in 2010, when the government was taken over by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction and/or government, there was such a difficult financial situation in the country, the fiscal balance was upset that, if you allow us now, we would remember what multinational taxes had to be introduced: a special tax on financial entities, a special tax on certain sectors, credit institution contributions, income tax on energy suppliers, advertising tax, utility tax and the rest. Accusing the government of not having multi-enterprises pay the public costs is simply impossible, the facts prove that they are not. At the same time, it should be said that the reduction of personal income tax is unprecedented in the European Union, which is happening in Hungary, since we introduced one-key personal income tax, first 16 percent and then 15 percent. By the way, its introduction did not involve such conflicts, since they received compensation for both public employees and those working in the competition sector. What happens with the family tax reduction is not happening in any other EU country or even in a European country, since now families with two children receive a tax reduction of HUF 40,000 a month. By the way, those who do not have enough personal income tax can also deduct family tax benefits from contributions. By the way, in 2010, when it was still multi-key, the load was 17.7 percent, in 2017, when it was single-key, and then the personal income tax burden was reduced by 12.8 percent and 5 percent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Unfortunately, that's all I had to say in two minutes. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Bence Tordai.
u2018-10-15-171	If we stick to the facts, let's see that the total tax wedge is the second highest in the OECD countries in Hungary, almost 50 percent. Or let's look at the taxes that Mercedes paid, for example, which it thinks was properly taxed, and they paid a tenth of a percent in 2015, for example. Or let's see what's behind the great freedom fight and the great anti-bank rhetoric: last year, the profits of the banks were 700 billion forints, a historical record. So you're trying to sell us the fact that there's a tax reduction for people here?!The Fidesz government is unique in one thing, there really is a single-key tax here alone, because it is so unfair that it has not been introduced in any other normal European country, and where it was introduced in one place by mistake, it is already regretted. So perhaps it would be good to return to the European road, return to the path of truth and take into account the will of people who want a fair tax system, a multi-key tax to pay more for the rich and less for the poor. Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2018-10-15-172	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2018-10-15-173	Thank you, Mr. President. One comment on the tax wedge: if you count the tax wedge with the family tax discount, then Hungary is in a very good position in the European Union. A reaction to the corporate tax rate: reducing the corporate tax rate will increase our competitiveness. Do you think that having 750,000 more people working in Hungary since 2010 is not what this serves? [[A statement from the opposition: No, it's not true!]] That's exactly what it serves. But you know what? I pulled out the Dialogue for Hungary's election tax program, do you know what's in it? Tax increase, multi-key personal income tax. You would introduce 30 percent sja, raise the corporate tax rate plus 10 percent, introduce new taxes, tax on property, tax rate would be 1 percent of the wealth. They would introduce more new taxes, a speculator tax, a carbon tax, and most importantly, you referred to VAT, your tax program doesn't include reducing VAT. That's why you didn't run for office on your own because no one would vote for such a tax programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Can Brussels take away the right to border protection? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for the response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-10-15-175	Yeah.
u2018-10-15-176	It says yes. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor.
u2018-10-15-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It seems that there are no weeks that the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs of the European Parliament, the LIBE Committee, will not discuss a proposal aimed at bringing more migrants into Europe. The haste is understandable to them, since, while still in a modest majority in Brussels today, they want to push everything they can to the election in May, because they fear that they will no longer have the opportunity to do so. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] Last week, LIBE discussed the proposal that, without any examination of the situation of migrants, they would virtually automatically receive an entry visa at EU Member States' representations to allow them to enter the Union as soon as possible and easily as possible with this visa. At today's Commission meeting, a proposal aimed at removing border protection from Member States and transferring it to Frontex, but this would not be border protection, but border management. This means, in essence, that instead of border protection, they want to establish a porter service here at the borders of Hungary. But this is just one of the elements, Mr Secretary of State, of the recent package of proposals published by the European Commission on a permanent resettlement programme, the creation of legal and organised migration routes, the centralisation of the evaluation of asylum applications and the deployment of them in Brussels. Dear Secretary of State, How can we defend ourselves against the latest insanity of Brussels' pro-immigration forces? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2018-10-15-178	Thank you, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-15-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, Hungary does not allow a jott of border protection, and Hungary will not become an immigrant country. They do not want to stop immigration in Brussels, but to manage immigration, as you said, because Brussels' plans are about a permanent resettlement programme, the opening of legal migration routes, pilot migration programmes and the introduction of a humanitarian visa with African countries, and it would involve NGOs in visa handling, take away border protection rights from Member States and hand over to Frontex, where they are no longer talking about border protection, but about border management. The word border protection means the border we protect, and border management means that there's something there that needs to be arranged somehow. At the time of the migration threat, Hungary acted immediately in 2015, we acted immediately, we created the triple protection: we also built the fence, the lively protection and the legal barrier. Among the first, we recognized the link between migration and terrorism, and we acted immediately. These achievements will be preserved by the government and will not give up the right to border protection. Once again, Hungary will not allow a jot of border protection, and Hungary will not become an immigrant country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Hörchik.
u2018-10-15-181	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that Hungary has clearly demonstrated to the country and to the world since 2015 that we can effectively defend our own southern borders in line with EU standards, which are also the external Schengen borders of the European Union, and even Chancellor Angela Merkel herself has acknowledged this. However, we do not understand, Mr Secretary of State, that the external protection of borders in the Union is currently a national competence, so we are wondering why the Union wants to remove the mechanism that is already in place, the protection of the Hungarian border from our hands, and we are waiting for the answer from the European Commission so that it can respond legally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Kontra.
u2018-10-15-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Our borders are protected not only by professionals but also by patriots, they are the Hungarian army and the police forces, the Hungarian police, they swear on this, and this is the surplus that cannot be bought for any money. This is our strongest shield, and this shield protects us, honourable Member. In full compliance with EU and Hungarian laws, the Hungarian Police effectively protect not only the southern borders of Hungary, the borders of Hungary, but also the Schengen borders of the European Union. For the protection of the border and the security of the Hungarian people, the government will act with all the means available, we will not let the right of border protection out of our hands, we will protect Hungary, we will protect the Hungarian people, we will also protect the Schengen borders of the Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, Márton Gyöngyösi and György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to the urgent public task. I ask Members whether they will accept the person of the response, or whether they will ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person. [[Tamás Sneider: We will wait for the Prime Minister.]] They'll wait for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Peter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for the response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-10-15-185	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2018-10-15-186	Yes, then it is for Congressman Peter James.
u2018-10-15-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few days, in the Gypsy colony of Encs in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, a Hungarian woman was unfortunately almost lynched and ran out in front of her car by an unsupervised five-year-old child. Unfortunately, on the 12th anniversary of the lynching in Olaszliska, I do not need to discuss today that you have restored order in Hungary, but I have to say that the tragedy of that time was almost repeated, and if it is up to the official bodies of Hungary, it will certainly happen again, because both the perpetrators of the lynching in Olaszliszka and Encs are at large at large. [[17.10]] It's a disgrace to the politics of the last 12 years. From left-wing governments, let's face it, we didn't expect them to clean up here. However, in 2010, Mr State Secretary, you promised that in two weeks there would be order in this country, and I must say today that today we are where we were in 2006. It must be said that Fidesz has no interest in tidying up the gypsy settlements, it is not in your interest to curb crime, because you are making excellent profits from this situation. As long as the gypsy issue is not solved, you can, for example, make the billions of people to catch up with the help of Flórian Farkas, who are on the job, disappear, and you can build a more and more populous voting base for some part of the Gypsy population, a voting base that can be bought more and more cheaply, even with a bag of dry noodles. In exchange for this voting base, you may even tolerate lynching Hungarian people on the Gypsy line. The state, the official bodies of child protection, disaster protection and police, have left these settlements, and have abandoned the people living there in the fight against criminals. Secretary of State, Encsi lynching is the last exclamation mark; the last exclamation mark, which tells the state that it must be recaptured harshly, must be reclaimed to the legality of the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] settlements that you have outlawed. What do you intend to do about it? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-15-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I strongly reject the unfounded and false statements you made about Hungary's police, the Hungarian police, and the Hungarian police. Hungary is a democratic rule of law where the laws are binding on everyone [[György Szilágyi: Are the perpetrators at large?]] and in Hungary the laws must be followed by everyone. No one's exempt... [[György Szilágyi: No, no! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, allow me, Mr Szilágyi may need a doctor for the excitement.
u2018-10-15-190	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-15-191	If you'll allow me, I'll answer. [[György Szilágyi constantly intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-15-192	I warn Congressman Szilágyi to stop.
u2018-10-15-193	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] If you'd like to know the answer, please allow me to be heard. Honourable Member Peter James, I will therefore continue to answer. The Hungarian police will act decisively against all criminals in all the settlements of Hungary in order to ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property, the establishment and maintenance of public order and public security. This is why we have been fighting since 2010, and we can now say that Hungary is a safe country. And where there is an infringement, a crime, police will definitely act and take the necessary measures. I'd like to inform you about the Eenchi case, if you'd like to know my answer. The police arrived at the scene within 10 minutes and apprehended the men who attacked the driver, so the police performed within 10 minutes, Congressman. The police provide a continuous public presence in the affected settlement and act against the perpetrators of crime by any means possible under the law, and serve to maintain the subjective sense of security of the population, maintain security in this settlement and in all settlements of Hungary. In Hungary there is a constant police presence in all settlements, and where the law is broken, the police intervene, the police are expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman James has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-10-15-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The problem is, you can't be counted on to make a mess. You are so eager to wave to those who disturb Viktor Orbán's corruption, that you do not swing to where Hungarians are lynched. Here's the solution. Jobbik demands that all criminally infected segregations in the country, if necessary, in the middle of the Gypsy colony, you create police stations with a 24-hour real police presence, and that uniforms remain in the settlements until they can restore legal order and peace. We also demand financial respect, Mr. Secretary of State, for the police, which doesn't start with taking their overtime money away from them. And we have said it many times, but I repeat it again: we must set up the border guard, Mr. Secretary, because it is not a condition that our police officers from Borsod, Encs and Szabolcs are led to the south, leaving the citizens here alone against the criminals. The border should be protected by border guards, and the police should be ordered back to a place where at this moment Afghan citizens are not crying and lynching the Hungarians, but people with whom we have lived for a long time, but we have not been living together for a long time. So, Mr. Secretary, we're not looking for dawdling, we're looking for real, decisive action. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-196	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2018-10-15-197	You know, Congressman, your attitude and Jobbik's attitude, Jobbik's position and Jobbik's statements have a Pharisee attitude. When it comes to strengthening the police, when it comes to increasing the police's budget, when it comes to increasing police numbers, you are constantly saying no in Parliament, Congressman. At times like this, we are called to account for a crime. Honourable Congressman, I would like to state that the Hungarian police are present in all the settlements of Hungary, working with the local authorities, cooperating with the vigilantes, cooperating with the churches and the charitable organisations in order to guarantee safety to the people, and the Hungarian police are everywhere, doing everything they can to ensure that security is guaranteed. By the way, the fact that the number of crimes decreased by 50 percent compared to 2010 speaks for itself. You can smile, Congressman, because of the measures taken by the Hungarian Government, the budgetary laws and the effective action of the police. If you really want to support us, if you want to support order, even greater order in all the settlements of Hungary, then support [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the proposals that we are proposing to this end. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What help does the government offer to create new cradle seats? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-10-15-199	Thank you, I accept.
u2018-10-15-200	He'll take it. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2018-10-15-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government aims to make Hungary a family-friendly country, which is why it is an important element of the government's policy to contribute as much as possible to improving the lives of families, to childbearing and to raising children. This is why, among other things, in 2011 the government decided to introduce a unique family tax system in Europe, and in recent years it has developed the family support system with countless measures. This meets the most important objectives of the Christian Democratic People's Party, according to which the family as a nation reserve unit should be supported from the point when two young people connect their lives, through childbearing to multigenerational large families. Dear Secretary of State, 2018 is the year of families in Hungary, which hopefully also means that, based on good economic performance, we can spend more than ever on supporting child rearing. When developing a system of institutions that provides children, it should be possible for parents who have children to choose both family and work at the same time. On 1 January 2017, a comprehensive reform of the day care system took place, since then parents can enroll their children under 3 years of age in a traditional day care center, a mini-care center, a work nursery or a family nursery. Of course, for the purpose set, it is essential to create new crèches, whether by expanding existing crèches or by creating a new crèche. On the basis of the above, I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State what assistance the government will continue to provide for the creation of new cradle seats. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-15-202	Thank you, Congressman László Earth. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-10-15-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, as part of the government's family-friendly policy, we have been paying special attention for years to strengthen families, to support raising children, to facilitate the employment of parents with young children and, in particular, to increase the number of nursery and kindergarten seats. In my reply, I would also like to say in particular how this is happening, as it is possible to create new forms of supply, to develop existing institutions, to expand their capacity and to renovate existing services in the framework of EU programmes. [[17.20]] Within the framework of the EU projects approved so far, 4830 children's new cradle seats and 11 075 existing cradle seats will be developed and will be implemented. In the last year, in addition to EU funds, nearly 70 municipalities have committed to creating nearly 500 seats in the mini-cradle area with a HUF 0.6 billion of domestic funds. This year, the Minister of Finance announced two applications for new cradle and mini-cradle seats, with a budget of HUF 4.5-4.5 billion. One of the applications has already been completed, on which only the municipal authorities of Pest County could start. On the other, the crèche development programme, all municipal authorities who apply and meet the conditions may receive funding. The deadline for these applications is 18 March 2019, so the municipalities can prepare for this tender, consider and apply in the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman László Földi has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-10-15-205	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I am also interested in this question because Pest county is a separate category in the application system, because we cannot apply for all EU funds. I was very pleased when HUF 4.5 billion was awarded to Pest County for a kindergarten application, more settlements from my constituency were applying for it, and I hope that the invitation to tender, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, which the Minister has just written out, and it will be possible to apply for it until 19:00, will also be applied for there. After all, not only in cities, but also in smaller settlements of 3-4-5 thousand, there is an increasing need to create crèches, especially in relation to the mini-cradles, and I trust that the settlements of the constituency will be able to benefit from this funding. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-206	Thank you, Earth Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-15-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The above-mentioned tender, I think, was a very significant amount, since it was possible to apply for HUF 4.5 billion, as I said, until 18 March. Here, a ministerial decision will be made by 4 June, and then the implementation will begin. However, applicants who have already been prepared for ongoing development, so they have authorised plans, for them the proposals received by the Ministry by 30 November will be evaluated by the Minister by 15 February, thereby accelerating the possibility of municipalities who, I repeat, have already prepared for such an opportunity. However, even HUF 1.5 billion is available to local government maintainers for development. I think that the government will take every opportunity and do so in order to increase family space, nursery seats. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-208	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The homeless is also human." The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr Korózs if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-10-15-209	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-10-15-210	Then it's up to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2018-10-15-211	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, At midnight today, I believe the government's most inhumane action has come into effect, which has hit the homeless. We have said several times here in Parliament, when the amendment of the basic law was tabled, and the draft legislation on non-compliance has been submitted, that social problems cannot be solved by law enforcement. In addition, what I see now is that there are organizational units involved in the banning of homeless people from public property, which is not the job of organizations to put these unfortunate people aside now, for what reason they should be dealing with people. The police don't have to deal with the homeless. Homeless people who are forced to live on the streets must be dealt with by street social workers. It's not for the paramedics, and it's not for the public sector inspectors. I would like to draw this House's attention to the fact that the government has been killing the homeless since 2010. The Ombudsman rejected the ideas expressed by the Government twice. There can be many forms of being homeless: that you're in a debt spiral, that your marriage is broken or that you've lost your job, let's not think about it now. But I ask you, Minister, are you ready for this situation at all? Have you looked at the number of seats in Hungary and the capital today? Have you looked at the state of these seats here in the capital and in the country? Have you looked at where these people can store their personal belongings and where they can keep them safe? Please answer these questions. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-212	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2018-10-15-213	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The government and the competent ministry, which is not the Prime Minister, and of course not the Prime Minister's Office, are fully prepared to deal with the otherwise desirable situation as a result of constitutional or legislative amendments. The fact is that there are over 19 000 seats available during the winter crisis. As far as we know, this is enough for all the homeless, so there can be no situation where someone doesn't have the possibility of a night sweater, a bed or a bed. At the same time, I would like to add that we do not consider it a fundamental human right to live in a public area, and we believe that if we are to protect human dignity, it is also not the same thing that everyone should be allowed to lie in a subway, in a public area, in the middle of the city. If someone looks at the data on how many people lost their lives during a cold winter or during a winter in the years when there was no such regulation, and how this was reduced after that, until the Constitutional Court has abolished the previous regulation, he will see that this is the right regulation in itself, even if we approach it only in terms of the protection of life. So on the one hand, I think it is right for order to be ensured in the capital and in other major cities. It is not true that part of human dignity is that one can lie in the greatest dirt on public land, on the ground, but the state has a duty to provide these people with decent care. The government is prepared for this, the competent ministry has done everything in its power, and I believe that this intervention is necessary for the benefit of all the people who want to live their lives in the cold during the winter months, but it is also necessary to maintain public order. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-214	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-10-15-215	Thank you very much. Well, no one has ever claimed that this is the proper way to live. No one claimed it. No one in this country is born wanting to be homeless, no one's goal in life is that someday when I grow up, I'll be homeless. We should take measures to prevent people from becoming homeless, and these measures have not been taken by the government. Because if you had brought these measures here, then all opposition groups would have supported it. If housing was provided, if rent subsidies were granted, if outside seats were financed, we would have supported it without further ado. But that's not what they brought here. That's not what you brought here, Minister. In addition, I'm sorry, but the government is making homeless people on conveyor belts. Well, they evict 20 to 25 families a day. Well, over 1,300 families have been evicted since May 1st! In addition, 120,000 families are then prosecuted, just said the Deputy President of the Hungarian National Bank. So here tomorrow, there will be more homeless people than there were the day before yesterday, despite the measures. It's obvious.
u2018-10-15-216	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to respond back to Secretary Gergely Gulyás. [[17 .30]]
u2018-10-15-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We are not the ones who caused the foreign exchange credential problem, as a result of which there are still a few such procedures today. We're the ones where we could find a solution to this. We are also the ones who have introduced an eviction moratorium for the winter months, which is why this problem does not exist at least in the winter months. Once again, I would like to stress that the government has made sure that everyone can have a sheltered place with normal heating and a normal temperature at night. Having ensured this, we believe that it is in everyone's interest, the lives of people living in the capital city, the lives of people living in a city with county rights, who are affected by this problem, but even the interests of those who, by the way, have chosen or were forced to reside in the public area. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that professionals in this area say that there are people who come to the capital for a living or work, and they also have a flat somewhere else, so the issue is more complex, but it is also in their interest that they do not spend the night outdoors and preferably do not stay outdoors in the public area. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think this regulation is right, humane, humane, and also in the interests of the people who live here. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-218	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, There is one more immediate question, Mr. László Varju, representative of DK, he wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Did the Government Debt Management Centre lie? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2018-10-15-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Has a dream come to an end? We could ask this question because your resettlement programme has been completed in the past period in Hungary: 6621 people have been installed here, 18 585 people have arrived with them, so we can see the results for you in total. The fact that it is not clear exactly what happened is because the other day, according to documents sued at a professional conference, the country lost at least HUF 30 billion, the tax-paying citizens lost on this bond program. There was no reason to make use of it, and in the meantime, it was even HUF 60 billion damaged. But this can be enhanced by the fact that all of this was done because, by the way, the environment of a well-paying group of friends was created. What happened during this period? The Economic Commission has concluded a contract with offshore companies under the leadership of Antal Rogán, designated companies, and they have contributed to the deployment of Iranian, Syrian, Arabic, Chinese, Russian, and well-known investors, who are around 30 years of age. They made 29 thousand euros on these people, by the way. This is the question that needs to be asked, that you may not be willing to account for it, and in the meantime, the Government Debt Manager confirms that it publishes a statement that 3 billion forints was the country's profit on this. Dear Secretary of State, It is unacceptable for you here to claim that the papers show something quite different. Tell me the truth. Tell me why Mihály Varga lied through the Minister of National Economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-220	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-10-15-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, If you get to know the truth, you won't be saying such untruths that someone wasn't telling the truth, whether it was the finance minister or the government debt management center. Let's look at the facts. During the period 2012-2016, Hungary had serious financing difficulties, thanks to the decision of your Prime Minister and your government, who, during the 2008 crisis, took on the expensive IMF loans, which not only had high interest costs, but would have gained political influence in the country, György Soros. Now, after the change of government, we had to face this, and we certainly had to start paying back, reimbursing and financing. This repayment is made on the one hand from foreign exchange bonds sold to the general public and on the other hand from the settlement policy mentioned by you. I'd like to give you a number. For example, at the time of the repayment in May 2013, the interest rate on the IMF loan exceeded 4 per cent, while the annual interest rate on the Hungarian government bond of establishment that you whipd was 2,53%. For you, whether you like it or not, the Hungarian State issued a total of EUR 1.84 billion of Hungarian government bonds in nominal value between 2013 and 2017. If we compare the cost of this with the Hungarian government debt interest of Premium Euro, we can see that between 2013 and 2017 the Hungarian state saved EUR 9.6 million and nearly HUF 3 billion. Premium Euro has a commission payment in the case of Hungarian sovereign debt, 1 per cent, while in the case of the settlement bond it does not charge the state fund [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] an obligation to pay commission. These are the facts, please accept. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Varju has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-10-15-223	You could have told me the facts before the Committee on Budgets, but you didn't have the courage to come there, because otherwise, what you're saying is a distortion of the facts, and it's not true what you're saying. So if you have the courage, come over there and don't want to discuss this in two minutes. The situation is clear: your resettlement programme was paid for. [[Intercoms from DK: That's right!]] You didn't have to do that. They gave tens of thousands of people permission to settle here, put public money into offshore companies, got involved in money laundering, and, by the way, caused national security risks. That's what you've done in this. To give you a specific example: Újpesten the dream you have come up with here continues with the fact that an Arab Saudi company is building and recommending apartments for people who have been deployed here through an Arabic website so that your friends can build here and come in here. Dear Secretary of State, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is how you continue the dream of bringing people in here. [[Tamás Sneider: The Hungarians are being chased away! Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-224	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also possible by the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-10-15-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would answer with one law: the 2007 II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. According to law, the Parliament's Economic Committee approves the contract in a transparent and verifiable manner in accordance with the criteria of suitability laid down by law, and so it did. As far as the persons are concerned, it was verified by the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of the Interior has already stated this several times. Well, let me ask you something. What you're referring to, numbers, the damage to the state here, was done by a man named Balázs Romhányi. Balázs Romhányi also worked for the IMF [[Intercoms and murmurs from Jobbik: Soros! Soros! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Balázs Romhányi is famous for the fact that his studies are not characterised by the economic approach, but by the political approach. Balázs Romhányi is also a teacher at CEU, Central European University. [[Defiance and murmuring from the opposition parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Good Agent." Agent! It's terrible. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This agenda is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, who applied in order of business. I would like to express your point of order in one sentence. [[Demercation from opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-15-227	In an extended sentence, I would like to call the House Committee on the fact that Lóránt Keresztes could not tell me the immediate question that I would have joined from the universities in the countryside, and why you have introduced the tuition and why you have silenced those with whom you disagree. In this matter, I would like this to be discussed and for everyone to see that this is not the Fidesz election meeting, where László Fat takes the floor from anyone. This is the Hungarian Parliament, where we were elected by the Hungarian citizens to get a word! [[Bence of Turdai: Hooray! Intercoms from Fidesz: Long live!]] Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-228	Dear Parliament, [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Since a motion has been made to convene the House Committee, I declare that I will notify the House Committee of this matter. [[Lajos Korózs: Now it's worth it! Demercation from opposition parties.]] and the President of the Parliament. [[17.40]] Article 13 of the Parliamentary Act. In accordance with Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will notify the group leaders in writing of the date and location of the House Committee. Now we move on to our next agenda. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the defence of Hungary's sovereignty and the rejection of slander against Hungary follow up on the debate. The representatives of Máté Kocsis, Gergely Gulyás, László Böröcz and János Halász, as well as the representative of Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP submitted H/1487. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, I'll ask on behalf of the government if anyone wishes to speak. [[Csaba Dömötör indicates his intention to comment. Dr. László György Lukács, pointing to Csaba Dömötör, who held the Juncker sign! There, that young man!]] Yes, then, please place the card properly. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Mr. Juncker!]] Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-15-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We would like to thank all the Members who have expressed their views on the Sargentini report in the debate over the last few weeks. Our position hasn't changed. The report that has been adopted in the European Parliament is an ideological piece of work, and it is easy to say that it has an inversely proportional significance to its quality. That is because this report has some important messages. One is that they want to continue to break Hungary, above all on the issue of immigration. The second is that the forces supporting immigration seem to have a majority in the European Parliament. That's good for us to know. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: In the People's Party too!]] The third is that, in order to do this, even legislation will be overwritten if it is in their interest to dictate it. It doesn't matter anyway, it seems to those who refer to the rule of law on the road and road. This report is a harsh attack on self-determination in the Member States, which is a matter of strategic importance. We, our political community, do not allow in any area, to stand by and let Member States' powers be undermined, not in energy policy, not in tax policy, not in agricultural policy, not in the least in the case of immigration. It is not in the Treaty that we should transfer these powers, and, by the way, if we look at migration, then in the 2014 European Parliament election campaign, while there was much going on, this area has not been discussed at all. So Brussels does not have the authority to take powers here. Once again, I would like to say that if we remove from the points of the report the lies, the ongoing cases, the ideological expectations that have nothing to do with the rule of law, there will be only one real and sharp impact point, and this is the case of immigration. As a reminder, if we look at the content of the report, we are being attacked because we have not accepted enough immigrants. [[Bence of Turda: No! Because you've launched an attack on democracy!]] This is supported by numbers, honourable Member. So they're saying that the number they're writing down in the report isn't enough. They also describe the fact that we are not participating in the resettlement program. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We're a dead party!]] Hungary is also accused of defending itself with a legal border closure, which we cannot be surprised by, given that the same Members who played a leading role in the adoption of the report have also attacked the physical border closure throughout. Hungary is also accused of punishing the organisation of illegal immigration, and on the basis of today's news, we see that this will be attacked. We're not gonna give in to pressure in this either. Yeah, and it's also wrong that the Hungarian court condemned an immigrant who attacked the police with stones, which would otherwise be a criminal offence in any European country. It seems that nothing is expensive for Mrs Sargentini and her companions when it comes to the idea of open society, which is not rooted in reality, but in a blind ideology. Dear House, More and more places in our area are seeing what this political game is all about. More and more people are speaking out against the Sargentini procedure. The House of Commons of the Czech Parliament recently adopted a resolution in which it stood up for Hungary and condemned the Sargentini report. The Polish Government, among the first to support our country, called the vote against the ideas of the European Union. The President of the Slovak Parliament also said that I would like to take the initiative that, following the example of Czech legislation, the Slovak Parliament should also stand up for Hungary in relation to the report. Thank you for every support post. Unlike them, as far as the Hungarian opposition is concerned, we still do not expect too much from them. They either voted in favour of the report attacking Hungary, or, for example, Jobbik, they fought against it. Now we could say this is a joke, but we're thinking more of the word shame. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves!]] Everyone who has not rejected and will not reject the Sargentini type of pressure in the future supports those who want to break Hungary on issues of strategic importance. Dear House, Soon we will be able to vote on a decision that is worthy, proportionate and strong in response to the Sargentini report. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Hungary launches Article 7 against the Union?]] We want a strong Europe, capable of defending itself, with an independent, strong and independent Hungary, which cannot be intimidated by reports, political blackmail, financial blackmail and offensive messages. That is why we support the adoption of the resolution by the Parliament. Now the House can give its opinion, but let us not forget that next spring in the European Parliament elections all Hungarian people will be able to give their opinions. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-15-230	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. I give the floor to Richard Hörcsik, rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs in a six-minute time frame.
u2018-10-15-231	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Adam Mirkóczki: Something new!]] The Committee on European Affairs held on 10 October 2018 at the meeting of the H/1487 Committee on European Affairs. The detailed discussion of this proposal. Our committee acted as a designated committee, so we also took a position on the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, There was a lively debate in the committee, and my fellow members of the Government pointed out the danger of the Sargentini report, and therefore they urged Parliament to make an appropriate political response to slander and slippages. We cannot allow the European Parliament to intervene without any authorisation in our exclusive domestic affairs in the Member States, in particular in the areas of public security, border protection, electoral procedures, family law, social law, public education and the rest. At the committee meeting, I also thanked the Czech House of Representatives, which, as we have heard, stood up for Hungary in a resolution by the Secretary of State and rejected the Sargentini report. By the way, last Monday I was able to personally thank the Czech MEPs for their solidarity with our country at the V4 European Affairs Commission meeting in Prague. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the European Parliament, with this report, will further weaken the cohesion of the European Union and create a new line of fault between the Member States rather than dealing with its responsibilities under the Treaties. We continue to see the Sargentini report as not valid, because in its vote, the abstentions were ignored in a manner contrary to the Treaty. It is simply unacceptable for us, honourable Members, that the procedure of the only representative institution in the EU is so unpredictable. [[17.50]] Such voting procedures are a complete disregard for legal certainty and predictability, even if they are done in the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment tabled by DK at the committee meeting was rejected by the pro-government majority and the committee's better vice-president abstained. In the absence of a further rapporteur, it is still necessary to mention that the opposition amendment aimed, instead of a political response, at standing up for the Sargentini report, essentially rewriting the entire text of the proposal for a resolution tabled by my fellow members in favour of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, At the committee meeting, the pro-government speakers made it clear that the right to border protection will not be passed on to Brussels and that we will not change our migration policy so far, and that we will continue to protect our borders effectively, where necessary, with a fence. The Sargentini report is part of the European election campaign, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, a kind of pressure against which the Hungarian Parliament must take action with the adoption of this decision and with all possible additional legal and political means. The Committee on European Affairs closed the detailed debate at its meeting on 10 October with a unanimous decision and submitted its report. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-232	Thank you, Congressman Hörchik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members of Parliament who have applied in advance in writing. Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik!
u2018-10-15-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Firstly, I would like to respond briefly to a sentence of what you said at the end, namely that with this counter-report, the Hungarian Parliament will give a proportionate response to the Sargentini report adopted in Brussels. I'd rather ask you a question. Do you think that the content you wrote compares with the content you created and read in Brussels? I don't think so, because you're only talking about border fences and immigration, which is something you should be talking about anyway, but you don't have the critical edge of your governance. Would the proposal for a Hungarian decision that you wish to adopt be proportionate? Because I think that all opposition representatives and parties here can be mistaken, because we do not know that Hungary can launch either Article 7 or anything else against the European Union. This is precisely the biggest problem of this proposal on the part of Brussels, which, by the way, will be the result of 10 million Hungarians instead of you. Of course, in our committee, in the National Security Committee, your motion was also a subject. However, I would like to stress that if we are talking about national security relevance, we should be talking about the relevance of what actually threatens the interests of the nation, the security of the nation, whether it is the Brussels report or your policy. It's the latter that's more right for me. No one wants to take away the rights of border protection, neither the report nor Frontex, which your prime minister even announced a year and a half ago. At that time, he demanded that Frontex be strengthened and enlarged, and now he speaks of Frontex with a completely different omen. Now it seems that if you want to solve this problem instead of you, you won't be allowed to solve it, because this is more of a campaign issue than a problem to be solved for you. The national security risk is not caused by this report. The national security risk is caused by what 70-80 percent of this report contains, namely the party occupation of independent institutions, the unsustainable state of the Hungarian media relations, the immeasurable corruption, and let me not list the constitutional, normal principles that should work in such a country, which is a member of the European Union, but does not work, only exist on paper. That's what's causing the national security risk. And if we translate what this means for the people of Hungary in a more professional way, well, it means that now some of the European Union funds will have to be repaid because of your corruption, in the future, if we trust that Article 7 does not start and there will be a country that will veto, then Hungary will be obliged to pay different sanctions and additional financial resources in a negative sense. That's what actually poses a national security risk, not what you say and mantra. And once again, we are partners in ensuring the security of the country, not only at the border, but also at the border, we are partners in strengthening the defence if necessary, we are partners in strengthening the police if necessary, and we have been demanding that the independent border guards stand up, which you voted for together with the then MSZP-SZSZ. This is what we should be talking about, and then we would not be able to point out all kinds of reports and lying propaganda that you are constantly using and trying to lead around 10 million people. I'm going to do one last, let's just say, too naive attempt that if you want substantive debate, meaningful answers, you should first exercise self-criticism, which is completely out of character for you, and exercise some humility, which has been out of character for years, but it may not have been for a decade at all. Take me back from corruption, take me back from an anti-democratic policy that seems to be a democracy and, in fact, a Bolshevik faster than the Bolshevik pace. Thank you very much, and my fellow Members will continue. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-234	Thank you, Congressman Mirkóczki. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK.
u2018-10-15-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start with what you have started and what you have been talking about, that there is some kind of unlawful or unfounded procedure going on here in relation to the situation in Hungary, for which there is no legal basis for the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Let it be clear that this is not the case. When Hungary joined the European Union, it assumed the obligations set out in the Treaties of the European Union. These include, for your sake, the fact that if there is a clear risk of a Member State seriously violating the values referred to in Article 2 or mentioned, a procedure must be initiated against it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] What does Article 2 contain? That the Union is based on the value of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. The European Parliament is asking for these rights, these values. When we propose that the National Assembly discuss the content of the Sargentini report itself instead of your lying, misleading, misleading proposal for a decision, and that this be included, and we tabled an amendment to this, we intend that Hungary should meet these values, because Hungarian citizens should not have less rights than other EU citizens. It is not possible that in Hungary the rights of the Union do not prevail just because two thirds of you, which are very difficult and have been forged with electoral distortions, do not want these rights to be enforced. Ladies and gentlemen, When you voted down in committee to accept this amendment by the Parliament, you voted against how the rights of Hungarian citizens in the operation of the constitutional and electoral system, justice, corruption, protection of privacy and data protection, freedom of expression, freedom of scientific life, freedom of religion, freedom of association, the right to equal treatment, the enforcement of the rights of persons in minorities, including the Roma and Jews, and indeed the rights of migrants and asylum seekers, or just how the rights of Hungarian citizens in the field of economic and social rights apply. You do not want to deal with this, you do not want to argue about it, and you cannot defend your position in these areas. [[18.00]] That is why they are talking about something else, and that is why they are saying false things about the Sargentini report, which is why they are saying false things about the European Union and the European Parliament, and that is why they are making a proposal for a decision that has content, I am sorry, but is not in a thank-you relationship with the Sargentini report and the procedure provided for in Article 7. We have proposed in this amending proposal, as is the case in the first phase of the procedure under Article 7, that there should be a meaningful dialogue; that the Hungarian Government should engage in a meaningful dialogue with our partners in the European Union and engage in a meaningful dialogue here in Parliament on how to resolve these problems. Because we say that sanctions are not the solution, we say that we can avoid Hungary being even more excluded from the substantive processes of the European Union, but we need dialogue, solutions, and we need you to respect the rights of Hungarian citizens, to make changes that guarantee the effectiveness of these rights. We will initiate tomorrow so that we can vote on this in Parliament, and they will be able to change their minds, and they will be able to vote on the rights of Hungarian citizens instead of their own conspiracy theories. Finally, Mr Secretary of State has left out the neo-Nazi Golden Dawn from among the congratulations to Viktor Orbán and to you. Next time, you'll mention that, too. They're your friends, not the European Democrats. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-15-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker was Congresswoman Bősz Anett. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am very sorry that neither the European Union nor here in the benches of the Hungarian opposition have found a man who would have been able to convince you what the Sargentini report really is about. It is an overt lie, which the Hungarian government claims. It is not true that it is only about you having an issue with fellow refugees in Western Europe. It's not that anyone attacked us. It is about the fact that the Hungarian government does not respect the rule of law standards, the democratic institutional system and the principle of equal treatment in Hungary at the moment. That's what the Sargentini report is about. It is about the fact that millions of people in Hungary today are deprived of their rights, and you have no reason to do so in your mind. In fact, during the last eight years of governance, this situation has just escalated. When it was announced on the blue posters that coming to Hungary must respect this culture, I think that if a person is a member of the European Union, he must respect the principle of equal treatment, the principle of equal dignity and European values. That's what the Sargentini report is about, not what you're saying about it. It is about finally enforcing in Hungary the foundations that have been built on this continent for 70 years. And that is that human dignity and equal treatment must develop our societies and help everyone to be equal. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-15-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker, which was registered in writing, is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-15-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm shocked, though. However, there are 133 Fidesz Members, and in any case, Mr President, there are ten of them in the benches. Are you seriously saying that someone believes that a government and government representatives want to push such an incompetent proposal through a House, and that they have no decency to sit here and defend their position?By the way, I think that none of the government representatives here have been asked, nor have they asked Mr Secretary of State to draft this proposal, because I know you so well that if you had been entrusted with this proposal for a resolution, you would not have succeeded in such an invaluable way. I'm so sorry, that's my opinion. But one thing is certain: we have been sent to this House to represent the truth, within these beautiful walls, the wonderful historic building. It was their request, and they voted as they did to ensure that the truth would prevail in this House, not the lie. You know exactly, and after my earlier speech, I thought you would see that this proposal should be reworded, because it is not true in the proposal that the Sargentini report is only about migration, but I am terribly sorry that the lies contained in the Sargentini report are not included in this proposal, but the rejection of the accusations of racism and anti-Semitism. It does not include rejecting the corruption charge, the reduction of the system of brake balances, the unilateralness of the media, the powers of the Constitutional Court and the rest, and so on. You have sharpened it on migration, which is not true. He told the press over the last few days that we had to keep our nose shut and vote for it. My fellow Member is right, we really need to keep our noses shut, but not because of what he said, we need to keep our noses shut because it is the stench of rotting government that comes out of this proposal. We must therefore really keep our noses shut, because there is no such thing as migration and nothing else coming out of government blessed with so many smart people, from a group with so many educated heads. I know that they are preparing for elections to the European Parliament, and it must be said that the opposition stands for the European Union's support for migration. No, I didn't. We want the truth to be written down in a proposal, and we will vote for the truth at any time. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is also coming from the Jobbik Group that they are now registered on the spot, next is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-241	Mr President, Dear House, I appeal to Mr Dömötör State Secretary with the question that, if your line of thinking were true, that Jobbik would not have supported any of the efforts of the Government of Hungary in the fight against migration, then why do you think we voted in favour so that the defence could march alongside the physical border lock. Mr. Secretary. In your opinion, if the missing votes of Jobbik, which we gave to the two thirds, had not been available, then how could they have guaranteed the safety of Hungary at the physical border closure which, by the way, was not your idea, and which was raised with great delay after the people's language called the Keleti Railway Station a railway station in the Middle East, Mr. Secretary of State; because you were dawdling because you were huddling. They were unable to guarantee the safety of Hungary. You have allowed thousands and tens of thousands of people to go through Hungary without any control. Don't grin, Mr. State Secretary, because you have delivered Hungary to this situation in order to benefit from it later on. Mr. Secretary. Pull yourselves together, account for the settlement bonds, stop pushing the thousands of protected people in, because they have taken in more than they would have required of you on a quota basis. And if that happens, we will be able to have professional, sensible debates on this issue. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-243	Thank you for the floor. Although sold out, but not broken, the LMP faction is present and can participate in the debate. I'm very happy for you. I would like to start with a comment on how interesting it is and I am pleased that we have been able to talk about it for so long, and we have been able to have such a detailed debate. It was very important for you to have more committees to discuss it several times, to be presented to plenary several times. Looks like the House Savings Act wasn't so important to you as long, in detail, to discuss your arguments so much. You like to talk about your press releases, not about the laws you submit and which change the interests of the Hungarian people. That's enough for you if you go through extremely well that the national Fidesz representative at the Economic Committee's meeting will be informed when he's pushed to his nose to hold cheese, but whatever. I would rather talk briefly about the fact that you write down a lot of things about how you protect national interests, what you do not defend national interests and what you do not always see in plenary, what you do not talk about in relation to the European Union; why you do, for example, and now let us leave to what relationship you have with Russia, but when the European Union institutions, for example, want to establish a good relationship with Russia when they act against the region, they do not bring it to plenary. We say, when multinational companies influence the decision-making bodies of the European Union when they are lobbying, when Volkswagen or car manufacturers do this, they somehow do not bring them to plenary. What they do not bring to plenary is the way in which large European multinationals influence the leadership of the European Union, because you are part of it, where they are not defending Hungarian sovereignty, but they represent the Audit in the European Council, as Péter Szijjártó already admitted, there are German car manufacturers in the European Union. You represent sovereignty when it is convenient for you; when you can write long proposals about it and such long, beautiful texts. [[18.10]] On the previous occasion, I have raised this once before, but I have not received an answer, and I think that it may be time for the Secretary of State to be able to clarify such very big doubts in me, which makes it difficult to sleep, how it is that if Hungary is attacked because of anti-immigration, even though more countries and governments are fighting against illegal migration, why only Hungary is being attacked by the European Union. Why is it that if Hungary is leading an ever-growing coalition, which is the anti-immigration coalition, and every news on Echo TV comes out that your allies have won, and everyone is already their ally, and they have more and more allies, then why is it that you, Europe's most oppressed minority, are always targeted? Why is it that you're being attacked? We have already discussed this before, but there was no response that the Danish Government managed to amend the Asylum Procedure Act 67 times in 2015 and that Denmark was not subject to Article 7. The Danish Prime Minister stated that the German border must be closed and that people in Europe cannot come all the way. When he said that, by the way, you took about 100,000 people from the Serbian border to the Austrian border without taking a fingerprint or knowing who these people were. In addition to commenting on the railway station in the Middle East, in order to tell us exactly how many people Hungary registered at the end of 2015 would be very good and would answer the question that they were protecting sovereignty at that time. But back to my original thought, how come you're the only ones who get hurt all the time? You guys are a little bit like the movie Walking Gallop between the king and the mason, "Repressed, suppressed!" So maybe you're always hurt because there are other chapters in the Sargentini report that don't correspond to other anti-illegal migration countries? Maybe that's the reason. Or are they hurting you because there's a big global conspiracy with strong international organizations like CEU gendersaka, or do I not know what kind of Hungarian crocheting NGO is turning against you? So what is reality? Is it because you're being targeted because, say, the National Court of Justice has powers that no one else in Europe has? The fact that NMHH does his job the way he does it? The fact that the public is actually a I don't know... let's leave it, it's irrelevant, it's classified by ratings. So it's not possible that these are the things that make this report, and it's not because you, like Don Quixote, are fighting alone? So if you would point out this contradiction, Mr Secretary of State, that you are then the leaders of an ever-growing coalition, the lonely victims of Europe; why all the other chapters that are in this report were included, if only migration was attacked; and if only migration was attacked, then the majority of the European People's Party is pro-migration. Moreover, if the majority of the European People's Party is pro-migration and you believe that migration is the most important issue in Europe, then why are they still in the European People's Party? So that's another interesting question. But while we're at it, the last question that's very exciting is that as a holder of the Juncker table, if I remember correctly, and one of Jean-Claude Juncker's great supporters in Hungary. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] then will you participate in a Commission that will be led by the same people, chosen by the same people who chose Jean-Claude Juncker? Will there be a pro-ethnic majority committee again? And if so, why are you involved in it, and why are you devoting people to it again, if they're such enemies of what you are, by the way? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-10-15-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, this report and this counter-report are not about immigration, but about the looting of Hungarian people and corruption. It's the truth, it's the truth. It speaks of the looting of the Hungarian people, which the Hungarian government has committed against them; and it talks about corruption in Hungary, which is specifically built and controlled institutionally by the Hungarian government, and affects both the sources of the Hungarian budget and the European Union's resources, and unfortunately, it has already poisoned and dominated market relations in Hungary. When we talk about the rule of law, the independence of courts and prosecutors, then every Hungarian citizen can understand exactly what the real stake of the report is, because on one side we see OLAF as the European Anti-Fraud Office, after a year and a half, puts a full-scale report on the corruption case of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, we can see that since January this year, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office has practically not moved its ear stick and is free to run around without the fidesz oligarchs, all sorts of procedures and penalties. On the other hand, the Hungarian police can throw families with multiple children on the street in an eviction case very quickly and very quickly. That is what this report is all about, ladies and gentlemen. It's also about freedom of speech. And while we are here today in Parliament, Viktor Orbán said outside that we would never want to silence those who disagree with us. I'm sure Mr Fat didn't discuss it this morning at the Grand Committee meeting when we started the day in the morning, or maybe they didn't drink coffee there this morning, but something else. Looks like it didn't work out. Mr. President, it doesn't seem to have worked out. It's really a shame of the world that a demonstration...
u2018-10-15-246	Congressman!
u2018-10-15-247	... a complete faction is thrown out...
u2018-10-15-248	The house rules are definitely taking care of it. He's definitely taking care of it. I will give the floor back, but the rules of the house clearly ensure that the President has acted legally in this case. [[Péter Ungár: I am surprised by this opinion!]] So, in detail, as you represent the MSZP, we will discuss this at the extraordinary House Committee meeting proposed by Congressman Ungár. Here, I'll give you back the floor. I took 32 seconds from you.
u2018-10-15-249	Thank you, Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about, by the way. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] So I have no doubt that, according to your laws, it was legitimate or illegal, and I gave my political opinion: I think it is pathetic and ridiculous. And the report is also about the adoption of laws in recent years that lead to such a pathetic and ridiculous situation as I had to talk to the unfortunate uniformed colleagues on my way here, that a man without a roof was being handed out by two stand-by police officers, a parliamentary guard and a public area inspector, five people surrounded me about what he was doing in Kossuth Square to distribute without Fed. This sick legislative environment, this sick system, is exactly what this is about, Mr President. And also about the media, because I think the reason why you're sitting here is because there's four or five of you sitting here, without one member of government, without the presence of a minister or the Prime Minister, because it doesn't matter what you're saying here, obviously, the lie factory is going to report and shout whatever you want tomorrow. And yes, it is about corruption, because I am convinced that Fidesz is going against this report with such power because it knows precisely that after the introduction of the European Union's own rules, such as the European Public Prosecutor's Office's rules, it could not do the immeasurable corruption and theft that is visible in Hungary today. And yes, this is one of the things that Europe has chewed on. Europe has been chewed upon to take home the EU's common money, which is the common money of taxpayers and taxpayers there, only a little bit differently; and, yes, that is why, among other things, it has received more than two thirds in the European Parliament, and that is why, among other things, your party family, the European right, the European Democratic right, the Christian Democratic Party Alliance has supported this kind of condemnation of the Hungarian government. The MSZP wanted to get to the bottom of this case, so we presented a legislative amendment package with 19 legislative proposals that would stop the procedure under Article 7, i.e. the procedure against the country, the government. Yes, we have submitted these to substantially remedy the criticisms that the country has received and what we have been saying for years: in the area of the rule of law, in the field of the media, in the area of independence of the court and the prosecution, in the freedom of scientific life. We have presented our proposal on transparent public finance and spending once again, on the restoration of fundamental social rights, indeed on the creation of lives, living conditions, minimum humane living conditions for people living here, including pensions, including health care or family support. And, you know, a few years ago, Viktor Orbán, your leader, still approved and even desired that the European Union should take action against the Member State that violated the common values. [[18.20]] He specifically said that part of our sovereignty is worth giving up in order to stand up for our common European values and to preserve it here in the European Union. Of course, when it comes to money, of course, when it comes to keeping their power, nothing is sacred. Then the same Orbán Viktor has been blaring the opposite face for weeks and months now. You're changing your politics, your faith and your principle like other people change your underwear. The only thing that matters is keeping money and power. That is what this proposal is about, and this is obviously why your counter-proposal is ridiculous, which in this regard is only about immigration. And yes, they are very lonely now, very alone in Europe. Indeed, extremist politicians and extremist right-wing politicians and parties who have committed neo-Nazi ideology have joined the Prime Minister, which alone is a disgrace to this country and I think Fidesz itself. And it would be nice if you'd think about it eventually. It would be nice if you could at least think a little bit about where this road leads. There were many times in Europe when politicians took such a path. We always know, we always see the end of this process. I'm asking you to stop this way. There are a lot of things in this country that need to be resolved at home. There are a lot of things that keep you popular, but it's not based on lying, it's not based on depravity, it's not based on hitting and hitting people. I think that you should find this and I think that, in the interests of the Hungarian nation, you should return to the European Democrats; to those European Democrats who did report this report out in Europe, whether they are right-wing or left-wing, but European Democrats together have sent you a warning. Please consider this. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-15-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Overall, the MSZP still has 50 seconds, considering what I took from the congressman. The next speaker was Mr János Volner, in the remaining timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-251	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition representatives raised a number of legitimate criticisms of the Sargentini report. I agree with them mostly myself. However, for which I will vote in favour of the conviction decision, those are the following reasons. For example, in the section on equal treatment, the Sargentini report tries to interfere with the definition of family, in such a way that it objects to the fact that couples of the same sex are not considered family in Hungary. It's the same thing as my values, by the way, that I don't consider couples of the same sex as family. I, too, agree that only couples of different sexes can form families, and I consider it a serious reduction in the sovereignty of the Member States if the Sargentini report tries to limit them in this area. In the same way, the Sargentini report imposes on Hungary the arbitrary detention of migrants. Ladies and gentlemen. When there are tens of thousands of migrants on the Hungarian border, Hungary must ensure the country's territorial integrity and ensure that this mass of tens of thousands of people does not pass through us, and obviously there is no way to interfere with the internal affairs of a Member State in this way. Therefore, for these reasons, I am voting in favour of the conviction decision. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr László Böröcz of the Fidesz Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The truth is, a lot of people think about the Walking Gallop, and I think about the LMP and its ethics committee from the black knight section, but for each of us, it's obviously different. Firstly, I would like to thank everyone, especially the Fidesz-KDNP forces, who supported the resolution proposal on the committees. On the other hand, I would just like to respond to a few small things, and I am sorry that Congressman Bellozó has left. The truth is that when the MSZP and the Democratic Coalition after the amok run they did between 2002 and 2010, they call us to account for the lying points of the Sargentini report, after which one only blinks with big eyes. But the truth is, I think there is a fundamental flaw in the opposition's perception of the report. Because Mrs Sargentini was not willing to submit the condemnation of immigration on her own, it was obvious that a number of other topics had to be thrown in which, by the way, neither the ears nor the tail. You may have heard Mr Dömötör's comment, and I think he has explained in detail exactly what this is about. But the basic problem with you is obviously holding on to a straw like this, because if you don't win a parliamentary election, you're always trying to wait for some kind of outside help. Someone from the outside is looking for solutions to your problems, your failure, your aimlessness and your unimaginativeness. The truth is that, regardless of party standing, the social democratic, liberal and conservative leaders of the countries of Central Europe, the Visegrád four, are obviously aware of why this report was born. If you were right about what you said, these politicians, as Mr Secretary of State said, would never have stood up for a conservative Fidesz in a right-wing party family. They'll do it anyway. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] They know that this report is about trying to blackmail Hungary. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They are trying to make Hungary impossible, and this makes it clear that if anyone among the Member States makes a decision that goes against Brussels' elite leaders, they can make anyone impossible. Obviously, it has also been said several times that Article 7 requires the support of all the Heads of Government, not by a Prime Minister in recent times, that there is no way to support the condemnation of Hungary. I would rather suggest to the opposition parties that instead of waiting for an army to be rescued from the European Union, or from what, either from George Soros' organizations or from a Hungarian oligarch, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Your leader is a Soros plant!]] Perhaps it would be better to focus more on what Hungarian people need and how they can support Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue the debate. Mr Gréczy, Member of the DK Group, will take the floor. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The truth is, this report can be twisted and twisted a little bit, but it's not about the Gyurcsány government that it's not a Democrat, it's about your government. The Gyurcsány government was considered a democratic, free and fair rule of law by the European Union. [[László Böröcz laughs.]] This may be funny for you, but it's the truth. As opposed to you, two thirds of the European Parliament have said that they are not Christians, they are not democrats, they are not honest, and they are stealing like magpies. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] That is what the European Parliament has stated about you. That's what I'm talking about. It wasn't Ferenc Gyurcsány's son-in-law that he stole 13 billion, the fraud office itself, but the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán. Ferenc Gyurcsány did not appoint his friends, his friends and party soldiers to lead the ORTT, the head of the central bank, the head of the State Audit Office, but you did. That's the problem with the Sargentini report with the Orbán government. When you talk about eyeballing here, I would like to remind you once again that András Nyitrai, the Fidesz Member of the Commission, said that it is literally possible to quote: we should have used sharps for the police, because what else we need in order to use sharps, unless this is the case. You were going to have me shot in the crowd, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz. And now they are here in Parliament, and there are about as many people listening to this debate as Article 7; seven people in this Parliament are about as important to you. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] Once again, the European Parliament has condemned not the Gyurcsány government, but the Orbán government with two thirds, the Christian Democrats, and you have been designated by your allies. These Communists [[László Böröcz: That's you!]] Nazis and Eurosceptics. These remain for you, which remain for Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was also Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representing the authors, from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.30]]
u2018-10-15-257	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Once again, we have a very interesting debate. I would like to signal to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy that the Communists are not our allies, because you are the Communists, and you are not our allies. [[Noise, uproar in the lines of DK and LMP. Dr. Zsolt Gréczy: The Czech Communists voted for you.]] You are not our allies. It was very strange to hear Adam Mirkóczki speak... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was very strange to listen to Adam Mirkóczki speak, as Jobbik made a new voice, as he said that the Sargentini report carries a kind of danger, the procedure under Article 7 carries a danger. Ladies and gentlemen, why have you not voted against it in the European Parliament? And then why did you vote against the parliamentary resolution before us on each parliamentary committee where you were negotiating? [[Noise, interrogations from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Tibor Bana, vice-president of the committee, said that they have a problem with the content of this text. I find it sad, but I am not surprised that Jobbik has a content problem with a text about national sovereignty, the protection of Christian culture and the protection of Hungary. I'm not surprised that the new Jobbik has a problem with that, too. [[Noise.]] But, fellow Members, do not be discouraged, because tomorrow they can improve their performance in the final vote, they can still support the parliamentary resolution and defend Hungary. I do not think we need to accept lectures from the Democratic Coalition on the rule of law, because whatever Congressman Gréczy says, you were the ones who got shot in the crowd, who beat up people, who dragged hundreds of innocent people into detention and put them in custody. This was all under your control. [[Crying out of DK's ranks, including smashing up doors and trashing cars. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I don't know if you know this, but the Sargentini report has gone beyond its scope, because when we joined the European Union, it was clearly defined what is Community competence, what is national competence. [[Cries from the opposition benches, including Gergely Arató: You have to read it, it is at the beginning! The president's ringing the bell.]] The report itself acknowledges...
u2018-10-15-258	Congressman Harvester, press the button, please. You have enough time to respond, and I will give you the floor. [[Noise.]] But I'm asking you not to yell at me, please. Here you go, Congressman, carry on.
u2018-10-15-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The report itself recognises that it has not found any points in which EU competence would prevail and has therefore started to examine decisions taken under national competence. You may have missed it, although Secretary Dömötör has said that this is clearly a matter of closed cases, pending cases or lies. You may have missed the fact that the experts of the Hungarian Government have drawn up a 108-page document in which you have missed all the other points, as well. This should be requested from your MEPs, who were actively involved in drawing up the Sargentini report, as they supported it with proposals. You have to ask them for the 108-page document, which answers every point, by the way. Mrs Bősz Anett and many others spoke about the EU's core values, the European Union's core values and objectives. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that Central European countries are currently protecting the European Union's core values and that they are not protecting these basic values in Western Europe. The basic values are: security, freedom, growth, the protection of external borders or peace, which is now found in Central Europe. [[Uproar, interrogations from the opposition benches, including Gergely Arató: Is there a war there or what?]] And we are the ones who are protecting these values, and the Western Europeans are the ones who are crushing them with their feet. Both Congressman Ungár and Congressman Bellozó pointed out that others were not attacked or left alone. I would like to point out that there is a procedure under Article 7 against Poland, just as in the case of immigration, the Czech Republic is being constantly attacked, and Italy is also constantly being attacked against its migration policy. And, Congressman, I would point out that if we did, it is obviously not true that we are alone on this stage, because there are more and more supporters of anti-immigration policy in Europe, but even if we were left alone, it is enough for us to have millions of Hungarian voters behind us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To be honest, I didn't really feel like commenting on this debate, because Fidesz has made such a poor, unsavory presentation, and has continued with the same level of discourse over the last few days and weeks on the Sargentini report that, frankly, this whole story is not worthy of getting involved, but you know what, for your own sake, I practice grace. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] If my fellow Member here already says that the Hungarian people are behind you, let us look at what the Hungarian people are saying about the Sargentini report, let us look at the polls that show this faithfully. First of all, the question of the Sargentini report as a judgment against whom the report condemns: 51 percent say that this is indeed the Fidesz government, and only 28 percent say that this report was written against Hungary. [[Interjection from the pro-government side: But who did they ask?]] My colleague asked who they asked: a so-called representative sample whose opinion is almost the same with great certainty as the opinion of the entire country, all Hungarian citizens. That's how polls work. They don't ask 10 million people. [[Dr. István Vitányi's intervention:]] No, not them, but if you let me finish [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'll continue. The next question was whether you, Hungarian, would vote in favour of the Sargentini report. Indeed, there were a majority of those who would have voted for this, 44 percent against 33 percent, which is also a pretty clear answer. In the question of whether the cases listed here can be regarded as internal affairs of Hungary, again the picture is clear, 31 percent of them take the Fidesz position, they say that the Union has no business with Hungarian internal affairs, and the Sargentini report would discuss such matters. The other almost seven-tenths say that this is, in part or in part, a matter of the Union, of our common cause, of European internal affairs, if you will. So if you think that European values are being protected here, let us try to understand this together, what is European value with other European citizens, with other European nations and with their representatives in the European Parliament. Indeed, they say that European values are what are being trampled on by themselves when, turning against their own citizens, they are building this hybrid regime, which is indeed not a dictatorship; as the Secretary of State has tried to hint witfully here, there are still elections, but let us not think that this is a well-functioning, normal democracy. And while we are talking about the position of the European values in Hungary, whether the solidarity that is one of the EU's core values is realized, whether they intervene, whether the citizens of other European states are coming to the aid of Hungarian citizens, we must say that, yes, they are doing this, and the Hungarian people welcome it. 52 percent say that the EU must intervene through the decision of the EU Parliament when things are going in such a bad direction, and only two out of five say no, leave us hanging. Overall, when asked by the Hungarian people, who are so pleased to refer to whether the Sargentini report was justified, whether it was justified to accept it, whether it was justified to put the Fidesz government on the bench, 56 percent say that yes, this was justified, and only 24 percent say that it was not justified. So the fact is that most of the Hungarian people do agree with us, with two thirds of the Members of the European Parliament, and not with themselves. So it would be nice to finally finish the reference to them, because most of them are with us. So it's because they accidentally win an election. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And we know what factors led from the electoral law to the use of all public funds for party purposes, and what the Sargentini report actually tells us through ten pages, so that you won an election does not mean that you represent the opinion of the majority of Hungarian people in everything. The fact is that the opposition is now supported by the majority of the Hungarian people. You might want to see this slowly, stop this lame sargentini, the very boring serialization, the ridiculous CEU and everything you're trying to use here as an argument, and get off the dead horse, so you can understand yourself, as the Dakota proverb says. Get off the dead horse, you really have to stop this story. You're welcome to vote tomorrow, you can vote with the same content ten times in a row, no one will care, that's the big deal. We will serve the interests of the Hungarian people, as you have encouraged us to continue to do, and accordingly we will work to correct the points criticized in the Sargentini report, while holding ourselves to the will of 99 percent of the people, contrary to what you are doing here under the name of politics. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's time for Congressman Gergely Harvesto. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-263	Ladies and gentlemen, It's a good thing I interrupted you because Congressman Nacsa can't say I'm just saying it behind your back. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there are at least two more serious errors that I would like to correct. It is small, but they do point out how they have no idea of the type of EU operation that they have now built up this wonderful proposal for a decision to criticise. On the one hand, there are perfectly clear rules. In Article 2 of the Treaty, the basic values are set out, and in Article 7 it is possible to initiate an investigation and procedure against those who are systematically violating them. [[18.40]] This is not the same as the infringement procedure, which Mr Nacsa has confused with, this is a separate procedure, specifically for the protection of values, which we accepted when we joined the European Union. On the other hand, Fidesz representatives themselves submitted amendments to the Sargentini report, including some that were incorporated into the report, so Fidesz MEPs were also involved in the preparation of this report. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-15-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the authors, Mr László Böröcz is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to draw the attention of Congressman Torda to the fact that this is probably why you are failing, because it is not for nothing that you win elections. You know, you have to work with that, and you have to represent the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] The words that Mr Tordai used quickly, although he was poor and poor, in most cases the Member's speeches tend to take place in this capacity, but I would not agree to this debate. The opinion poll that you mentioned, Mr President, was produced precisely by the public opinion researcher who predicted the opposition victory on 8 April. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So it's obviously useful. I do not know how many of you have read the Sargentini report itself, but I would like to quote one thing from it that is worth hearing, since we have been given very wise thoughts here. It can also be seen from this one sentence how tangled and based on lies the Sargentini report is, since it says exactly the opposite of the final conclusion they reached. This refers to the Venice Commission, where it notes that it welcomed the fact that the Fundamental Law establishes a constitutional order based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights, and recognised the efforts to establish a constitutional order in line with common European democratic values and standards and to introduce legislation in accordance with international instruments of binding legal force in relation to fundamental rights and freedoms. So in the report it is described that the Hungarian constitution is like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-15-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tamás Bellozó is next for 50 seconds. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-267	Thank you, Mr. President. More than enough to sum up what the Sargentini report is about in a sentence. Yeah. So I think that today, on the day of the ban on homelessness, on the day of the banning of a opposition party from parliament, at 3:45 p.m., in the presence of some pro-government representatives, we are discussing this nation-saving proposal that, in parallel with us, the Legislative Commission will meet, where you will in one day make millions of people's lives miserable and ruin by adopting a proposal to abolish the housing system; this is all about the Rogán Antal-like housing business redirecting this money, and this money will be transferred to the buddies and the oligarchs. I think it's a very nice, round story, and it tells us everything about you. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Vigh is next to speak. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Looking at the TV debate, the Prime Minister's answers, and what took place in the European Parliament on the other side, I am telling the opposition the truth, there are indeed two worlds in Europe, as well as in Hungary. I also agree that you see the world in a completely different way than we do. I can tell you for myself, I am a Christian conservative man, I think these values are important, you think other values are important. However, there is a big difference between you and the other European opposition: the other European opposition does not act against its own country, does not make reports, does not report them, does not provide documents that you gave Sargentini and Tavares at the time, and are proud to say that we helped them to draw up these reports. How is it that you are acting against your own family, against your own country? You're working to hurt the nation where people live, work, raise families! [[Gergely Harvesto: Who hurt them? We're hurting you, not the people! The president's ringing the bell.]] I think they're on the wrong track. It's good to have the representative of the Dialogue back. He told us that no one was supporting us. How did we win three times two thirds? [[Intercoms from the opposition: Cheating! Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] When you say that...
u2018-10-15-270	Excuse me, Congressman. Congressmen Varju and Korózs, this is not the circus's mannequin, so I ask you to behave as Members of Parliament, or I am obliged to give you a warning. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-271	When my fellow DK and socialist Members say that they are insulting 11 thousand presidents and delegates in the electoral district by cheating, they insult 11 thousand times 3-4-5 people when they say that they are cheating. In the election, your people are there, and they're writing the papers, and you're adding up the votes, but the problem here with the votes was that we had 2 million 800 thousand votes. And now the EU election is coming, and you will see the results that you will receive for this policy, and we will also return to these debates after the EU election, and you do not understand why you have been given a mandate or another mandate, you do not understand why people have not voted for you. They didn't vote for you because you're working against your own country. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! You're lying! The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise, interruptions in opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-15-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Fellow Members, calm down, calm down. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State. The Fidesz Group is taking up time. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to a few things, try to get in line. Perhaps it was the Jobbik who made the statement that it was a lie of propaganda. This has been said by the Member who is no longer here, that we have found a link between migration and the report. I also suggest that you read the report, you will see that the government is being attacked from six different directions because of its policy in this area. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: The Government? Not Hungary? The president's ringing the bell.]] Government measures are being attacked in this case, and the whole report is offensive to the whole country. I also suggest to you and to the Member who is no longer present here to see what is in the European Commission's side of the tube, we have talked about this today, but they do not want to hear it. They published their resolutions in September: for economic reasons they would introduce a blue card system, resettlement is on the agenda again, they want to create joint projects with African countries, they would introduce a humanitarian visa, thus covering pro-immigration programmes. Take a look at what is proposed in the European Parliament committee and what plans have been published on the official website of the European Commission. They are there in black and white, and you either don't take the trouble to read it, or you want to deny it to the Hungarians, just as the resettlement quota was denied just before you voted for it. As far as border protection is concerned, Jobbik also said that it is extremely offensive for the police and the military to say that you are not defending borders right now. You are proposing to set up a new border guard. What does this say to law enforcement employees who defend the Hungarian borders even during the holidays? And by the way, don't act like you've always supported border protection. Congressman Gyöngyösi has recently said that a few kilometers of fences cannot cope with a crisis of this size. That's your official position. Congressman Ungár said that there would be an increasing coalition of anti-immigration forces here. We can't be sure of that, because if we assume who voted for the Sargentini report, then the fact is that there is a spooky resemblance to the forces who voted in favour of the quota. So the thing is, if I had to say it now, I would say that the majority of those in the European Parliament who support immigration and the European People's Party are divided. [[18.50]] We have never made a secret of taking up the debate on this matter even within the European People's Party. But what we say is that the problem lies in the fact that, while Europe, 70 percent of European citizens, opposes what is happening, EU decision-makers refuse to take this into account, and the internal concern of other countries is how much governments there are willing to take this into account. Let's hope so. So now we cannot say that there is a majority of the forces who think like us. This may change after the elections to the European Parliament. This is also what the European election is about. There has never been such an important choice in Hungary. As for the question of multis: if you say that we do not bring up the great impact of individual multi-enterprises on Brussels, then you probably did not pay attention to public life when there was a lot of debate here, even in Parliament, about a so-called reduction. The problem is precisely that we are releasing powers and strategic powers from the hands of the country, so that companies that look at their own interests can carry out disproportionately large lobbying activities, and if, let us say, we are putting energy prices out of our hands, then there is a very high risk that they will be released, just as in the case of left-wing governance. Congresswoman Anett Bősz also said that the government claims that this report was only about immigration. Maybe he wasn't here when we first told him. We said that if we remove the lies, the obvious lies, the ongoing cases, the ideological expectations, because they are included in the report, then there will be no other living and strong and meaningful conflict between us than the issue of immigration. That's what we said. That's what we said before. So the thing is, we can't deal with lies after a point. Therefore, if the Sargentini report says that it cannot be declared in Hungary, that trade unions cannot protest, that the declarations of property are not public, it is difficult to deal seriously with it after one point, but we would like to deal with the substance of this report, and that is the migration issue, because we have a debate there. Then, Mr Tordai, who is increasing the camp of PM representatives who are only present when he is listening to his own speech, does not usually do the answer; it seems that it is a tradition now that he said from practically one percent party that Fidesz won the election by chance, but I do not, because it would be unworthy. I would just say that if you were referring to the Hungarian citizens here, there was a referendum in 2016. More than three million people participated. 98 percent of them said that they did not want immigration and did not want the compulsory quotas, the mandatory quota which they had been heavily supported by Mr Tordai's party; they were massively supportive, they said that this was the solution. So we represent the 98 percent who said that the current policy is wrong. One more reaction to Congressman Gréczy; he is no longer present, I see he only listened to his own speech. He yells at me when the question of the police officer in 2006 came up that you shouldn't have smashed your window. So he thought the performance we saw in 2006 was justified. I just want to let you know that the people whose eyes were blown out didn't break in your windows. They were completely attacked by the police. So what I have to say to you is that if you really care about democracy and the rule of law, you will not say such things, and it would be good to apologize to the 2006 victims, if democratic rights really matter in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-15-274	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who wishes to speak on the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Bana Tibor of Jobbik, please.
u2018-10-15-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik can't support this poor piece of work, which is all about immigration. With regard to migration, Jobbik's position is firm and clear, and we reject Csaba Dömötör's lying claim that we would have attacked the soldiers and the police. All our respect is theirs, but it must be said that only the Orbán government and Fidesz allowed migrants into Hungary. The title of this proposal for a decision is also to reject the slanders against Hungary. On the other hand, we can see that neither corruption, the rule of law, the downsizing of democracy, nor the media relations in Hungary, nor any idea of the electoral system, is included in this motion. This is not because it does not appear, but because this is the situation in Hungary, which, in support of facts, appears in the Sargentini report, is the result of Hungary's serious withdrawal of EU funds already in the current cycle, and our fair compatriots can suffer. The fact that in the next period, with the introduction of the rule of law mechanism, our country will lose further EU funding will see the negative consequences of Hungary, Hungarian settlements and businesses. You, fellow Members of the Government and honourable Secretary of State, put your own petty political interests and the service of your friends ahead of the future of Hungarian families. Corruption is one of the pillars of their governance. And we were talking about values, national-Christian values. On the other hand, you are most marked by theft, which is the highest priority in the ranking of values, which is why this report could be drawn up, and therefore this is our strong position on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-276	Congressman, you've classified the ruling parties with an indication that I'm warning you about. The department's rating, you know what that means. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak out against the current time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr László Böröcz if he wishes to respond as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The DK Group proposed that the Parliament decide to amend Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code and other related laws, entitled T/805. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Budget Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. I'm asking you who's going to be the author. [[For signal:]] Congressman László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-277	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I see today's work will not be confused by the government's representation. [[Defiance.]] to provide us with information as to why they actually made a decision that had been made in the meantime. The point is, however, that with opposition representatives, but also in the committee, I could say that with the intention of improving the situation of those involved in the care of our lives in a very important area of home care, in order to create the conditions of insurance, whether paid or recognised as employment, to be recognised as an employment relationship. That is why my fellow Members and I have initiated an amendment to the Labour Code. This amendment was discussed by the Committee but rejected by the majority decision by the pro-government representatives. However, the justification for this has not been valid, even if I have to look at this situation in a way that you are actually running ahead. They run ahead of making a decision that affected them... through 50 thousand families, they take part of it, they make a supportive decision, while actually jumping people who do this not 24 hours, not in special care, under special circumstances. The vast majority of those receiving care are humiliated by this, and, as I said, they have been teased by making an uneven choice. We think and the initiative is that the amendment of the Code of Work gives us the opportunity to even lead to the introduction of a home-care relationship, and the debate that they should not have done uneven solutions could have created the condition that they should not have developed such conditions among those concerned. [[19.00]] You can only give falsely, the increase does not help the majority of the people at the moment, the majority of those involved, but rather the principle of "divide and conquer" is applied. They were not brave enough for the representatives of the government to face the exact amount to be recognised for what you have already talked about. Let us be clear, our position is about this, and this proposal supports the fact that the contributors to home care, and now not those involved, but those who care for them, recognize their legal relationship and increase the remuneration, are not favored by the government, but by the law that is due to them. In addition, the State is significantly better off with this activity being carried out at home, paying attention in home conditions to providing adequate conditions for long periods of time or full-day care than if otherwise done in public institutions under state conditions. I would therefore like to reiterate again and again that everything that you have so far prepared for a decision from this point of view is only half about what is important to the parties, or in a small part about what is important to them, and I therefore consider it very justified that this proposal should continue to be put on the agenda of Parliament. Take the courage and the tiredness to do so, yes, to settle the relationship between those involved in home care, whether to form a self-relationship, and to raise their remuneration with immediate effect, not only for families with children, but also much wider, to do so in the whole affected circle, and accordingly to recognise the victimous activity that they are doing primarily in the interests of their families, but otherwise to take over a lot of things from the state first. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-15-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, one member from each group of Members can make a two-minute speech, and the first independent Member may also speak within a two-minute time frame. Accordingly, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think that we should recognise people who help their relatives with home care every single time. However, we also need to talk about why we disagree with the submission of this bill. The first and most important thing is that this is about, as President Varju said, raising the care fee. The first measures were taken at the government meeting on 10 October. You have said that about 17,000 families are affected by the gross HUF 100,000 of children's home care fees, and when it comes to more children, this fee will increase to HUF 150,000 gross. The other important decision was to increase the amount of care premiums by 15 percent from 1 January next year, and then by 5-5 percent in the coming years, so families will receive 30 percent more by 2020. We have already said this amendment several times in the summer in particular because of what Mr Varju and his fellow Members submitted to recognise this time as an employment relationship. At the moment, we have also said that there are quite a lot of labour law and other conflicts of interest in this regard. Just think of how this bill would settle the working order, the freedom, the rest period, the subordination relationship. Therefore, I think we can say that the government is thinking about how to solve this problem. However, this proposal is not suitable to address this problem at the moment and in its present form, and we have therefore not supported it. Thank you.
u2018-10-15-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. I'll wait for Congresswoman to put the microphone on. Yes, Congresswoman, please.
u2018-10-15-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The aim of this proposal was precisely to start talking about this issue. The Fidesz-KDNP Group and the Government are making numerous proposals to the House that are not at all similar to what we are voting for at the end. Their own proposals are constantly being modified, extended, rewritten, so I do not understand very well, and I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to remain in the room at least for this one sentence. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: I'm not leaving.]] I do not understand why they do not allow it to be included in the series, given that we would be able to make amendments in the course of the debate, which would allow every group to come forward with a proposal that could be supported by consensus. Our biggest problem is that we do not have a substantive debate on this issue. We do not engage in any meaningful professional consultation with the stakeholders. Our aim is not in itself to have an employment relationship in a classic sense, but our goal is, for example, if you are in a position later, because you lose your nursing relationship, you should count the employment period during the nursing period as a period of service, so that, in terms of either freedom, careers in wages, civil servants or civil servants, the various remunerations are formulated with this help. I feel that the pro-government Members are not exactly concerned with what we wanted to achieve. What we wanted to do was to end up with a classic, fair proposal, indeed representing the interests of those concerned, which can then be voted on, and all the disadvantages they suffer for a lifetime can be returned to them. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-282	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Of the independent Members, Mrs Bősz Anett has applied for a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am very sorry that my fellow members of the Government have resisted the legislative amendment that we have tabled together with the opposition representatives, because we thought that the least we could do was recognise home care as a matter of labour law. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, who is forced to do so, and in many cases is forced to do so in connection with his own child, to care for someone for practically decades, he cannot himself be in a dependent status. We believe that not only in the legal sense of the labour market, but also in the sense that it is essential to recognise what they are doing as work to preserve their human dignity. This would have been reflected in the proposal tabled jointly with my fellow opposition Members. What my colleague, Lajos Szűcs, pointed out, for example, that the concept of the day off is virtually unknown in the lives of these people, and I, as a legislator, would not respond to this as an irresolvable situation, but, on the contrary, I would recognise that these people are almost never resting, that they are actually serving in 0-24, and I myself see progress as a result of the increase in the care fee. I think it is a step forward that, where appropriate, it is a service period, but I would nevertheless insist that a legal employment market relationship is needed. In this case, we would not only help home carers to settle their questions in a material, but also human dignity. And let me conclude here, as a last thought, that in terms of the amount, it represents a gross amount of HUF 100,000 below the minimum amount of living in Hungary today, and two of which must be kept to a minimum. I think it's very little, so thank you again for your attention. [[19.10]]
u2018-10-15-284	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Lajos Korózs is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-285	Thank you for the floor. I would like to advance the fact that we will support this proposal, all the more so, because we ourselves see it is time for this issue to be dealt with by the Parliament, but at the same time I can express my regret that there is no substantive debate going on. That you can argue for a motion in a two-minute time frame, I think it is a little unworthy of this House, all the more so, because there is no possibility for them, let us say, to make proposals arising from the Labour Code or even concerning the budget law. That's just the kind of thing you can say here, to admit that if there's a continuous shift somewhere, that's it, because these people are really working at 0-24. I must definitely highlight the proposal 2 and 3. Since Act C of 2017, which provided for budgetary resources for this year, this amount was set at a rather low amount for this year of HUF 32 600, and I would like to support to the extreme the proposal to set the minimum wage at the amount of HUF 138 thousand from 1 January 2018 onwards. All the rest that my fellow Members have been pushing around here, and it would be worth talking about, exactly how if someone, let's say, can enter the open labour market, because there can be an improvement in a well-groomed person's condition, for example, how this will count into his progress, or how he will count in his premising. These are all labour law issues that could be supported with a thorough presentation on a thorough agenda. Thank you very much, so we will support the motion.
u2018-10-15-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Imre László of the DK Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to mention two specific aspects on this issue, none of which is negligible. I think that we could speak with my fellow Member, József Kovács, about the situation in the chronic and nursing departments, where these patients should be placed and cared for. The state's support is, on average, about 7,000 forints a day. It is easy to calculate that the operation of these states per capita exceeds 200,000 forints per month. This is not enough either, because hospitals are loss-making and, accordingly, this area is already loss-making, so additional remuneration is also requested in different order sizes, which means that the plus is also charged to families. What is the other aspect of this story? The fact that these places in nursing and chronic classes do not cover the need is significantly less than the number of those places than the number of legitimate needs. So there's a discrepance between the two. I think, and that is why I support, that beyond these very important facts, human love, the usual environment, it only contributes as a plus to trying to move in this direction and to help these problems by taking appropriate measures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-288	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Bence Tordai, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Dialogue, for its part, will, of course, support the inclusion of this proposal on the agenda in the vote, all the more so because we were all out at the related protests, talking to the stakeholders, and I am not ashamed to cry at the fate of some families as an adult man. There are amazing stories, and that is why I find it particularly repulsive that you here consider this matter to be the same political toy as, say, this Sargentini counter-report. I can understand the latter, the former is simply infinitely disappointing with regard to the human quality of pro-government representatives. Now, in this case, they're also using the tactics that all normal dictators use: divide and conquer! They've just found themselves within this incredibly difficult social group, a small group of people who care for their children at home. They are somewhat increased in their care, not fulfilling the most moderate demands anyway, and they say that but who, let's say, tends to his elderly, demented parent at home under the same conditions, who cannot come out, because we don't have to put a little child in a wheelchair, but a grown man in a bed, and he can't just get out on the street with him, so let's forget about them, they weren't in the media, let's not spend money on that, let's build another stadium instead of raising their nursing fee. I am simply infinitely disillusioned, and I want you to wake up tomorrow morning and sleep on it and look in the mirror and think about what is really important and why you are sitting here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask Mr László Varju, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. Time frame's two minutes.
u2018-10-15-291	Thank you very much. I would certainly like to take advantage of this opportunity, because we can really say, on behalf of all of us, that we were there, that we were present, that we perceive and that we feel what is happening in these people's lives. Many of us have looked into this, we have been there together, and not just experiences, but in itself, sound human thinking makes us all have to make a decision. And they don't give us a chance to prepare the decision, so it's worth really sleeping over one night, thinking about it, and saying tomorrow morning, yes, it's a case for which it's worth standing up for, because the tens of thousands of people who are affected by it are the ones that really deserve to come into this Parliament. Home care is a job. They spit in 33,000 people's faces when they actually want to give a ridiculous increase in support to get away with it. If you do not support it, it also means that, at the same time, the day after the committee meeting was preceded by this uneven decision, that tomorrow our presentation must be voted off not only in committee, but in Parliament as a whole, because otherwise they have failed to do the work in the last few months. So what they did is uneven. I think it's worth reconsidering and continuing this tomorrow. Just because what you are about to make a decision must make you feel: this matter, the decision to be made in this matter, is not a favor from the government, it is not a voucher to be given, it is not a gift to the parties concerned. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's an opportunity for them to get what's coming to them. And I would ask you to hold this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on implementing procedures based on foreign exchange and forint consumer credit agreements in financial institutions T/961. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, on behalf of the rapporteur, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the notary of the Parliament, within a five-minute time frame. There you go. You have the floor. [[19.20]]
u2018-10-15-293	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Justice Committee refused to include our motion in the series last Tuesday. By the way, at this meeting, the committee discussed 27 motions. So I think that this motion has not been given the proper attention it should have. Moreover, this motion was discussed at a different time, earlier in June, virtually unchanged. Our motion is nothing more than the submission of proposals from the Tax Chamber to Parliament, a bill which, in itself, aims to discuss the claims of those who have suffered foreign exchange and housing credit. We believe that the Tax Chamber's proposal should be considered as a matter of high importance and suitable for discussion, so we ask you, for the second time before the Parliament, to include this proposal in a series of articles without delay. I note that you will have the opportunity to do so tomorrow morning, more precisely in the morning, and you will be able to say yes, and I think that you are doing the right thing. I would also ask the government's official to agree and support this series of things. I'd ask him if he was here. Let me say that it is more unworthy than the meeting of the Judicial Committee that the representative of the Government has not respected this proposal now, and none of his representatives have respected it with his presence. That's unacceptable to me. Very briefly, I would like to add some reasons to the series of articles, despite the late hour, the tight interest and the government's absence. There are several preliminary rulings in the European Court of Justice on foreign exchange credit contracts. I note that an exemplary decision has also been made in neighbouring Croatia. I think that, taking these into account, the Parliament should reconsider what it can do to help those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. It's definitely an important foundation. Until all issues are resolved by the European Court of Justice, legal uncertainty is enormous. I think that when the situation can change significantly for the benefit of debtors, even if some decisions have been made since then, but the situation of debtors could still be significantly improved, under such circumstances the application of State constraints should not, in our view, take place. Together with family members, a total of 4 million Hungarians can be affected by ongoing implementations. 900,000 consumer credit executions are currently under way. There are now 140,000 real estate implementations. And we have heard a lot of family tragedies, a lot of news about how many families have tragically been affected by the policy that has turned a blind eye to their eviction. We do not believe that consumers' interests and consumer protection can be trampled in such circumstances. We cannot preclude the right to appeal to the court, nor can Parliament make impossible the right to appeal to the court, the right to a fair trial, or the right to an effective remedy. The main objective and message of the proposal are therefore to suspend implementation until 31 December 2019. That's the main goal. And what I can say is that if this were to happen, the Parliament would have the opportunity to discuss, accept, and help all the families in difficulty concerned with their needy situation. To discuss this at the Parliament, we can reach it even if you take this motion into consideration tomorrow morning. Then, of course, we can modify it, we can have a substantive debate about it before the Parliament, but until it is taken into consideration, unfortunately, this is not possible. I think it's a false policy for the government to turn a blind eye and act like it's solved the problem of foreign exchange lenders. It did not solve it, it is a very serious problem, and in 2018, in the year of the families, it is unacceptable that many tens of thousands of Hungarian families are in such a difficult situation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-15-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the House that one Member can speak in two minutes per group of Members, and that the first independent Member to speak will be given the opportunity to speak. Accordingly, Member László Vigh of the Fidesz Group has checked in. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-295	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The international financial and economic crisis that unfolded after 2008 has had an impact on Hungary as well as on debtors due to insufficient regulation of consumer lending contracts. The Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance is committed to helping people in distress and has tried to improve their situation through radical measures. In order to help foreign exchange lenders, the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement was implemented. Law 303. Re-regulation of § 4 of the Act, which aimed at extending the moratorium on eviction that had already been applied. In 2014, the government prepared regulatory solutions that are able to deal comprehensively with a wide range of consumers, a rapid and effective reduction of the legal consequences resulting from the unfairness of contract terms which form part of consumer loan contracts. Protecting a consumer who is a weaker party, who is not involved in financial and economic processes, is of particular importance in enforcing his interests when dealing with issues related to consumer lending contracts at a statutory level. The Law on Legal Units Act 16-18. § 38-43 of the Accounting Act and Article 38-43 of the Accounting Act. §2 of the Act regulates the detailed rules for the suspension and prevention of pending lawsuits and enforcement procedures in relation to material matters until the debtor is protected. T/961. Legislative proposal No.3 proposes solutions similar to those referred to herein to halt implementation and to suspend pending lawsuits by indicating as final date 30 December 2019. In recent years, the government has helped 1 million families worth approximately 1.2 billion forints. I think this is a serious achievement that we have achieved together. I would ask you to reconsider the above-mentioned proposals, and this is how you make your decision. Thank you very much for your attention. Fidesz-KDNP does not support the subject series.
u2018-10-15-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. With great respect, I would also ask everyone, Mr President, to try to ensure that the time frame is respected. I will speak to Mr Tamás Harangozó, but with respect I would like to point out that he should not sign in for two minutes, because then the automatic cannot line him up. Now there is no need to change it, but the automatic cannot classify it and then it is not in its place among the speakers. So I am speaking to Congressman Tamás Harangozó of the MSZP Group. Here you go. I saw you push a button.
u2018-10-15-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not the ungrateful type, but I need to address you first. The authority of the Parliament could perhaps be protected by the administration of the House in order to ensure that the representatives of the government are present and seated in Parliament on such matters. I think it's the least they can expect. The main point of the proposal is to ask for suspension of implementation. We would like to ask for the suspension of enforcement, since 140,000 families are directly involved in this matter, and 30-40 thousand families rise and lie directly in fear of eviction every day. On the other hand, it may be in the interest of the banks, but if we are enablers, then it is in the interest of the security of lending or even of legal certainty. However, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said in another debate, in a country where the banking system has had an extra profit of nearly 700 billion forints in the last year, this cannot be discussed there. For God's sake, get into the 700 billion forints/year extra benefit of not putting people on the streets in this country! I understand that this money will be a private jet for bank leaders, a luxury jet, and this money will be used to install the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, into their private jet, and will be marching to watch a free football match in the world. [[19.30]] But nothing is free, fellow Members. And the roads of these luxury machines, the purchase and maintenance of these luxury machines, are paid with the money of the people who are terrified of being evicted from their houses. Shameful!
u2018-10-15-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-299	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, why is it okay that the government isn't here? We know their position, we know exactly how they feel about it. They think it's all taken care of, they've done everything they can to save people. It is quite clear that in the year of the families, the filth which was the looting of the Hungarian people continues, and what is now culminating in evicting those foreign exchange taxpayers who have not managed to cope with this otherwise financially and legally defective product. So we see that the government believes that this is perfectly enough, but we all see that it is not enough. Jobbik has always supported the tax chamber's attempts and suggestions. He supports it now, of course, because it is completely rationally accompanied by requests and measures that can save the social crowd that is slowly falling under this problem, which is, otherwise, very broad. In fact, Jobbik not only supports it, but also does it itself. My fellow Members have prevented half a dozen, otherwise illegal evictions and illegal enforcement events, acting legally. Families were rescued, either by the executioner, notary, or, where appropriate, creditor and claimant, because of their unlawfulness, because of their procedure, were in danger of housing. And they would have illegally taken their house, their castle, everything they've worked for, beyond putting the unrepayable loan around their necks. After all, it is somehow not erased, there is no right to walk away, not even in Hungary, which is accepted elsewhere. It is therefore quite obvious, given that we ourselves have repeatedly asked for the cessation, restriction of executions, suspension of evictions, and even until this whole problem has been resolved by the Hungarian Parliament, the entire moratorium. It is quite obvious that because it coincides with Jobbik's position, Jobbik would support this endeavour, it would support this proposal for a resolution. But without the discretion of the pro-government and Fidesz, it seems that in Hungary it will be very difficult to save the remaining debtors from implementation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju, from the DK Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-301	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday in front of the House, before Parliament, there was a demonstration where I heard a low sentence: poverty is forbidden, disease is forbidden, you ban death! Ladies and gentlemen. When you are talking about rejecting the debate about the most serious situation of people losing their wealth, their last opportunity, their housing, and you are not willing to compromise for a temporary period of time, and to say that we should stop for a while and think about what should be done if such a profit has been achieved, if such circumstances have developed in tens of thousands of people, tens of thousands of families. I'm pretty sure you can't stop these people from dying. You guys were talking about leaving no one on the side of the road. Well, no, because they're being pushed into the ditch. They're doing the work that these people wouldn't do on their own, because they're trying to get on their feet, they're looking for opportunities that you've been deceivingly making up. But the point is that you now have the responsibility to create a way for debate with the proposal submitted for this. We can't let tens of thousands of other people go out on the street because you're gonna stop this for some reason. There is no reason for you to be excused. We therefore clearly support the proposal from the Democratic Coalition, and we trust that Parliament will make its decision that it is able and willing to conduct this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-15-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Bence Tordai, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to count how many pro-government representatives there are right now, not in the pulpit, but here in the seats. So far, there's only gonna be three, now there's only gonna be two, I see. This is only interesting in the light of the fact that I have to go out into the hallway at times during such a long sitting day, doing something useful, because persuading you is apparently completely useless. However, this is a good time if the previous debate was not a good time to talk about the actual content of the Sargentini report. One point of Chapter 12 is that, since 2010, under the regency of the Fidesz government, 50,000 Hungarian families have been placed on the street. We're talking about evictions without placement, evictions after which children are taken away from their parents, taken into public care. That is why the number of caregivers in the state is rising sharply. By the way, even the fidesz, otherwise not very humane laws do not in theory allow a child to be separated from his family for financial reasons, and yet. That's why thousands and tens of thousands go under the bridge, so there's 30,000 homeless. Let's talk about this today, too, when you started your campaign against the homeless and not homelessness, when you're trying to crowd 30,000 people into 10,000 seats when civil society organisations helping the homeless are being held by the Party State Audit Office. So on this day, we're going to talk about what Fidesz is doing to prevent the homeless from stopping eviction from happening. You are not interested in this, you are comfortable in your comfortable, well-heated luxury boutiques, and the fate of the Hungarian people, the fate of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, does not interest you. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask Mr László Varga, the notary of the Parliament, whether he wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm disappointed because you're always hoping that there might be a positive change in your attitude. Unfortunately, as the opposition proposals were voted out on a assembly line in the Judicial Committee, either in order to restore democracy or in this case to help foreign exchange credentials, I think that this is bound to happen tomorrow morning in relation to my application for inclusion in the series. I am very disappointed because the speaker at Fidesz said what they always say at this time, that this issue has been resolved, there is nothing to see here. But the question hasn't been solved. If there's nothing else, you'll find out about it from the news. But there are a lot of references to how intensely they keep in touch with their constituents. I am quite sure that you have been tried on countless occasions by personal tragedy of individual and family, tragedies that are clearly expected to be helped today by tens of thousands in Hungary. I propose nothing more to you than to do for them what we can, what we can do here. At least what has been done for those in distress in neighbouring Croatia, or at least what can be done for them under the decisions of the European Court of Justice. I think the minimum is that, taking into account, accepting and presenting to Parliament the Tax Chamber's proposal, we will be giving an extension until 31 December 2019, and until then we will all be thinking about a common solution here, and we will adopt a common solution that will reassure everyone involved. Give me a surprise, not just to me, but to tens of thousands of people who are waiting for this decision and include this presentation in a series of articles tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-306	Thank you very much, Congressman. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to encourage the provision of minimum health conditions by abolishing certain privileges for political leaders, T/1378. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. [[19.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, First, I will give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-307	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We are going to try again, because last week's committee meeting, the Fidesz majority rejected this motion; while we know precisely from sociological surveys that according to the Hungarian population, health problems are the most serious challenge for our country, and it is also apparent that we have a particularly bad situation in certain indicators, parameters, European comparisons, but now in many cases in comparison with the V4. A recent survey has been published, I believe, by Eurostat, that seven Hungarian regions in Europe have been defined in terms of chronic diseases and cancers in the ten regions that have broken down. In the first place, unfortunately, the region of Northern Hungary was included in chronic diseases. The second well-presented region of North Great Plain could only be fifth in this indicator. This relates to the fact that health care is bleeding from a thousand wounds today, and we also see that there are very serious supply problems. At the end of the summer, the bomb exploded with the resignation of Gábor Zacher, head of the emergency department at the Honvéd Hospital, where it was made clear that the minimum conditions in the so-called medical facility were so bad that he could not take responsibility for this work. At the time, he defined the situation as having to cure with fully emotorized equipment, 60 percent of the minimum personal conditions every day. But we know from the assessment of the minimum conditions, because, at certain times, health institutions have to report that there are rural hospitals where these minimum conditions are only about 25%. I must refer to the statement of the doctor, Erzsébet Mateis, who mentioned in the case of the Honvéd Hospital that the whole supply system should be classified as a no-go zone. It is a pity that we got here, because the Honvéd Hospital is one of the country's top medical institutions and is responsible for the care of some two million patients. A lot of people don't know, so I'll tell you, on the one hand, there's military leadership with a military commander, and there's a medical management under the guidance of a medical professional. Recently, the doctor's chief resigned. Unfortunately, the direction of military leadership was shifted when the current Minister of Defence was the Chief of Staff, Tibor Benkő. That's one of the things I wanted to say in favour of my arguments. The other is that it turns out that about a hundred letters have been written since 2015 by doctors working there to remedy the problems. A single measure of substance has not been implemented. In addition, the person concerned, Gábor Zacher, said in an interview that a HUF 250 million item could have solved the problems, partly personal problems and partly material tasks that were in the emergency department. Compared to this, we see that the members of the government, ministers, ministers, ministers, ministers, government commissioners receive all kinds of VIP care, while, I think, along with many people in this country, Hungarian health care is in this state, whether it be the hospital in Lipai, whether it be the emergency department in Pécs, where the head of the institution resigned at the end of last week, but I must mention that there was another resignation at the end of last week, because I know that the head of the emergency department in Veszprém has resigned from his post. I think this is unworthy of the country, and there is no special treatment for people whose decisions have a major influence on the situation in health care in Hungary today. I know very well that politics will not solve every problem of Hungarian health, because many questions are serious medical issues, they need to be resolved there, but, yes, because the legislation, the paragraphs, the decisions, the budget support are made by Parliament, then it should be nice for Parliament to make these decisions so that medical answers can be delivered to these raised problems. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2018-10-15-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives, and the first independent Member may speak in a two-minute time frame. Accordingly, I am speaking to Mr József Kovács of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill tabled by the MSZP Members is to ensure that political leaders, the Prime Minister, members of the government, ministers of state, Members of Parliament, all of us do not take advantage of the priority health care, i.e. we should not be entitled to do so, thus helping health problems. I would like to remind you that state leaders have had such benefits before, and even under socialist-liberal governance, they have spent double the current amount of money to provide health care to state leaders. In the meantime, there was a small hospital visit fee, a daily allowance, and then there was the ominous 2006 period, the serious reduction in bed numbers and then the reduction of beds in various areas, which is still lacking in health care. We do not agree at all that this VIP supply is so to speak for the Fidesz lords as a form of supply. With this, I think, in a lot of cases, or at least I hope we've never abused it. Let's talk about how it's been withdrawn, yes, it's been withdrawn from health care, at least 600 billion forints. There is also something about voting on those funds, such as the extra HUF 650 billion that could be used for health care. In addition, while improving conditions, it is very important that there will be 1,200 billion developments in the countryside and in the capital, and wage increases will continue. We believe that this is a very partial issue and therefore we cannot support the inclusion of this series of subjects. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-15-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács of the Jobbik Group is next to speak. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including, "He's not here!"]] I'm sorry, I didn't see if he was here. [[Lajos Rig: I'll replace you!]] You're not logged in, Congressman; but you are now. It's time for Congressman Lajos Rig. László György Lukács was written, that's why I read his name.
u2018-10-15-311	My fellow Member is performing an urgent public task, he had to leave, and I may have fallen asleep at the push of the button. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. We have already discussed the subject-matter of the proposal in the committee. I think we supported it there, as we will continue to support it. If we start with just the word "minister" the Minister means a servant, he must serve a community, the voters, the Hungarians who live here, and they must not receive anything better than the average Hungarian. The average Hungarian has to wait several months at a cardiology clinic, waiting several months at a diabetes clinic. If you apply for a computer tomography or magnetic resonance test and do not enjoy any extraordinarily unusualness, you may also have 3-4 months or six months of waiting. Political and state officials can even protege their families in this way. But what we have to say is that, unfortunately, they're still going to find those loopholes from friends, buddies, who can protect them, and they're going to be extraordinarily involved in the care systems of a health institution. I think that there have been a lot of facts in the committee, and even the figures about the good health situation in Hungary today, the waiting lists have decreased. But it's not about waiting lists, it's about booking lists. [[19.50]] If the average Hungarian citizen really encounters these data, these statistics, then it can be said that Hungarian health is okay, it is possible to eliminate all such things for officials, but unfortunately not, because the figures that were made there at the committee meeting, or here from the Secretary of State's mouth in Parliament, are all preparations for a great deception. It's all a big lie, and this big lie [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they want to shove it down the throats of Hungarian citizens. Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this proposal.
u2018-10-15-312	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Imre László is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-313	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members present and not present, I don't have to start with something personal for my own good. I've been a professional military doctor for 32 years. I was deputy head of the military medical service, and I ran the Honvéd Hospital for six years. I took part because I had a duty to prepare for the health care of the theatres, so at the time, in 91 in the planning of the Gulf Group, to direct their training. So I guess I'm entitled to comment on what happened at the Honvéd Hospital, because I don't think there's anyone in this House who knows this area better than I do. The military health service has a task in war conditions called classification, the distribution of incoming large-mass injuries to defined areas according to the degree of emergency. This is called emergency care during a period of peace. What I'm trying to say is that the basic task of a military medical institution is to provide emergency care. That there is a problem and a problem in this area, as they say, must be approached from the driver's side. The commander of the hospital is an excellent soldier; he is likely to have met with health at the time when he was admitted for fitness examination; he has no medical training. The medical director has resigned, who coordinates and holds the clinic together. They put in place an organizing doctor who has no idea of the clinic, so, I apologize, the blind leads the blind. There is a situation that will be detrimental to us, because let us not forget that this institution is carrying the VIP supply, and this is extremely important. This story is gonna kick back on us. Thank you.
u2018-10-15-314	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, from the Group of Dialogue, Mr Bence Tordai, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Dialogue has long talked about the fact that healthcare is two-speed in Hungary: on the one hand, there is a public health care that is given to the poor, as the Fidesz think. On the other hand, there is a private health care that can be used by those who can afford it, who can finance it. And then we see that, in fact, there is a third form of health care where you don't have to pay, but you get the highest quality of service if you happen to be in the lucky position to work off your busy working days as a state manager. I think this proposal is trying to draw attention to the fact that perhaps we should return to the national risk community. All the more I dare to suggest this, because, ten years ago, during the social referendum in 2008, Fidesz announced in a loud voice that health is not a business; that health should not be profited out of health; that health should not be privateised, privatised, but strengthened the national risk community, which means that we all pay in the big social security register and that everyone has the same high standard of care. The problem is that since 2010, the Fidesz governments have withdrawn more than HUF 1800 billion from health care, which is why they are unable to properly pay medical staff, doctors, nurses, nurses and others, so they are fleeing the system. This is why hospitals are not being renovated, and that is why hospitals in Budapest are particularly in an amazing, health-threatening and harmful condition. That's why there are longer waiting lists that the Secretary of State can only cover with net lies. So there's a crisis, there's a situation, there's a need to act, and it would be good for state leaders to feel for themselves what's in public health, what's in their health care for the poor. Then maybe they'd take a little more responsibility and take the necessary steps. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-316	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Lajos Korózs, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-317	I'll try to be brief. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very sorry that the Fidesz faction and the Christian Democrats will not support this proposal tomorrow. Please, it must be said here within the walls of the House, this is not a budgetary issue there, too, asked by a Fidesz Member at the committee meeting, that is a moral question. When Hungarian health care is in this state, I do think that no politician has a prerogative in this country. It is not that if someone is in trouble, they will save him, because all Hungarian citizens, on the basis of the risk community that my fellow Member talked about, must save their lives, in turn. It's just that as long as the country is in this situation, I also think that you should go to the GP, go to the clinic, draw a number and wait for everyone's turn. I've been Secretary of State three times, I have a moral right, I think, to mention that, I once didn't use any kind of care, not me or my family. When I had a problem or my kid, I went to the doctor, I took a number, and I waited my turn. In addition, I think that this can be expected. Please, this country was in trouble in 2009. During the Bajnai government, I was State Secretary, and all state leaders gave up this right. All state leaders! This is where we brought this paragraph to Parliament, and this is where the majority of the government voted. The only reason I'm bringing this up is because, please, let me refer to another research result. In the event of avoidable deaths, 41 percent of people under the age of 75 died in society because they did not receive adequate care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is why we have brought this proposal here and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-318	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on Hungary's participation in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in order to restore democracy, H/1509. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. First, I will give the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Harangozó, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this is part of our package to restore democracy, which we have already talked about in connection with the Sargentini report, namely that we have tabled 19 legislative proposals to the House which, if adopted, would make the report adopted by the European Parliament and the whole EU procedure which affects the country because of the activities of our country's government. A few sentences about the European Public Prosecutor's Office: 20 Member States have created them and, to my shame, many have joined since then. We are practically one of the few countries that has not yet wanted to join this institution. This is an enhanced cooperation created within the framework of... [[Dr. István Vitányi's signal.]] No, my fellow Member, more people have joined him since then. On the basis of a 2016 OLAF report, 270 investigations were carried out in the EU, obviously not only in Hungary. Approximately EUR 630 million has been proposed to be repaid this year. And what is more interesting is that, despite EU proposals and despite OLAF's indications, only around 40% of these investigations have been prosecuted or any investigative action in the Member States, and 60 percent of suspicious cases have never been brought before the authorities. [[20.00]] In this case, Hungary is obviously at the forefront, and it is enough to think of the Tiborcz case that has already been mentioned today, for which OLAF has carried out an investigation and reconnaissance, covering the full details of the case, submitted it to the Hungarian government, submitted it to the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, and since the beginning of January, practically nothing has happened in this case in ten months. However, the case itself is about nothing less, honourable Members, than that certain circles have been clinging to EU funds as a criminal organisation. By the way, these circles influenced the decisions of the municipalities, also influencing the decision of the government, collaborating and quasi-carteling on the acquisition of EU funds. It is just the drama of the Hungarian people that the work was carried out in such a lousy quality that even caused an accident; this is the famous elios lamp case, isn't it? And it is nothing less than that these accusations were made in the immediate vicinity of the Prime Minister's family. Nothing happened. Or we could talk about the Simonka case and a lot of things. We are talking about the money of Hungarian citizens and European citizens, so we think it is in the best interests of every Hungarian citizen to force this issue with the government. It is quite clear that political will is lacking in the government. It is quite clear that the government is also afraid in this matter that it simply loses the term itself called sovereignty, the right to allow the government to abuse public money with impunity and without limitations. We believe that it is of Hungarian national interest that, regardless of the government at all times, these matters are investigated regardless of any internal political interest, and perhaps not many of them know, perhaps even of the Members, because if they look at TV2 or Magyar 1, then they certainly have no idea that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not a new organisation, which will send foreign-hearted, quasi-migrant prosecutors to Hungary. [[Deficiencies in DK and LMP lines.]] , the Hungarian prosecutors and the Hungarian prosecutors investigate these cases; there is a central European Attorney General, and there is a team of 20 who supervises these processes, and one thing is certain and Fidesz fears that it would not be at the pleasure of Péter Polt to initiate or stop a proceeding, but, if there is a risk of fraud and theft of EU taxpayers' money, then the investigation will be launched against the interests here, and this could be a huge help to Hungary's political life purging. Therefore, with great respect, I ask not only the opposition, but also the pro-government representatives, not to wait until this matter is politically enforced, and we ask the kind voters to go and sign a petition that is precisely intended not to be explained by an empty parliamentary room, but also to show that up to a million people are in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-320	Thank you very much, Congressman. One representative per group of Members may now speak in two minutes or two, and the first independent Member may also speak in two minutes. Accordingly, I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Public Prosecutor's Office is the long-awaited desire of the adherents of the European United States. The question of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as set out in the proposal for a decision before us, cannot only be interpreted as the applicants do, but also contains the question of sovereignty. The proposal for a decision rightly states that Poland does not wish to participate in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office outside our country, but has also indicated that several states have indicated either not to participate or have reservations. For example, these countries are Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Ireland. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. Interjection: The Netherlands has just entered!]] The creation of a new institution would also weaken Eurojust, the EU Public Prosecutor's Office and OLAF, the EU Anti-Fraud Office. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] These two organisations are already acting against crimes that harm the interests of the European Union. This plan is therefore unnecessary and generates extra bureaucracy. But this is not the only aspect worth considering. The creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office may also be problematic in such a way that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office only enforces the State's criminal needs. There has been a struggle within the Union for a long time, namely: will the nation states have the future or the federal Union? We are still on the side of the nation states, and we are not alone in this, so this issue must also be dealt with as a question concerning our sovereignty, to which our response is determined: we do not wish to move towards the Federation Union. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the foregoing, please do not support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-322	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Tibor Bana is next. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said at the committee meeting, Jobbik supports the inclusion of this proposal in the series, as we have submitted a proposal to the Parliament which has tried to make accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office a reality, and in this way Hungary should express that the reduction of corruption is a goal for our country. However, it can be seen that the government and the government parties are clearly excluded from this, even though 22 Member States have already joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office within the framework of the enhanced cooperation procedure. From Eastern Central Europe, only the Poles outside our country are not, and otherwise the countries who do not participate in cooperation in justice and home affairs are largely left out. So this is not some unnecessary bureaucracy, as has been said before by the Fidesz speaker, but that the government is unwilling to take this step because the corrupt system of using EU funds is one of the pillars of their governance, and if that were to happen, these thefts could have substantial consequences. The Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is covering for the government, there is no meaningful action in any case, it can be seen that in the current term we are faced with a serious withdrawal of funds, and in the next seven years, in the event of the introduction of the rule of law mechanism, our fellow Member States may lose their fair support. The problem, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is that honest Hungarians will see the damage, and those Hungarian settlements and businesses who are trying to live their lives fairly and settle their affairs, while on the other hand the most important thing on the government's part is that they serve their own oligarchs, and you are therefore unwilling to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is sad. But we also support any signature collection that calls for this, such as the European Citizens' Initiative, which has recently been adopted by the European Commission, and that is what we encourage all our honest compatriots, regardless of party positions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-324	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, it is up to Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Citizens, We understand what it means when Fidesz talks about sovereignty. It means they want to commit crimes without punishment. They think that if they can appoint the Attorney General, who will continue to cover up Fidesz crimes consistently, the newer and newer examples of Fidesz crime, they will never have to answer for their actions. I've got some bad news, you can't go without consequences, you'll be responsible for these actions in the long run. Sooner or later, Hungary will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because if we are talking about sovereignty, let us ask ourselves who is the supreme sovereign here. In a democracy and if they want to name Hungary at some level, the people are obliged to keep to this, in this case the Hungarian people, but also the European people, because it is the European taxpayers who finance the enrichment of the Fidesz kleptocracy in addition to the Hungarians. European and Hungarian taxpayers are those from whom you steal 500-1000 billion forints a year, and which has so far been without penalty, so far has not been sanctioned. This is obviously why many citizens and decision-makers of the European Union have lost their tolerance for peace. To make another referral back to the debate on the Sargentini report, when it is said that they are voting in favour of condemning Fidesz in the European Parliament because EUR 5 billion is applauded annually for partly unnecessary, partly harmful, partly overpriced investments, with EU taxpayers' money, that is what we are talking about. And the Hungarian citizens, who are ultimately the Hungarian decision-makers, have also had enough of this, will not get away with it sooner or later in an election. [[20.10]] In the meantime, the entire opposition will collect practically the signature collection launched by Ákos Hadházy, which will force Hungary to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-326	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-327	Thank you for the floor. By the way, my fellow Member and I saw the Netherlands entering the European Public Prosecutor's Office in 2018, so my fellow Member made a factual mistake when he argued that, but it doesn't matter now. I would reverse the defense of sovereignty. Prime Minister used to say that EU subsidies should not be regarded as alms, and Hungarians always pay in. If we make a deposit, then we would legally expect it, as Western Europe is declining, that if the tax forints paid by us in the very bad Dutch or Swedish corruption are poorly used, then we can also look at them at a central level to see that there are, let's say, I don't know, just one example, such as a Dutch-lit shop or, say, the famous Swedish lookouthouse that doesn't look anywhere. [[Defiance.]] So that in these places we can also see that what the Hungarian taxpayers have paid for has been used as they were supposed to. Or, for example, a melon cartel, I just remembered something here... [[Defiance. To intervene:]] A Swedish melon cartel, yes. So, in any case, my suggestion would be that, in the case of sovereignty, we should always say things to the European Union that we would not expect in the same way when it comes to our money, when it comes to where the money paid by Hungarian taxpayers goes. Moreover, just so much about the accession to the Netherlands, because my fellow Member said that this is part of the battle of worlds, where the united states of Europe in Europe in Europe stand, that the Dutch Prime Minister, who has just signed the accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, has repeatedly explained that he is on the side of the Europe of nation states; he has repeatedly said that he does not agree with the need to merge powers and centralise in the European Union. Mark Rutte, when you sometimes say something when you agree with Prime Minister, it is written everywhere from Echo TV to the Hungarian times read by the municipalities that the Dutch Prime Minister is right. We think the Dutch Prime Minister is right now, and if you've already started saying that, then maybe [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Orbán could once again agree with Mark Rutte. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-328	Thank you very much. Mr Lajos Korózs is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-329	[[To intervene:]] I've got to know everything; I've got to know it, yeah. Here is the fact that I have just mentioned the conditions in health care, my fellow Members. If, for some reason, it is worth joining this prosecutor's office, it is worth knowing precisely that sin cannot go unpunished, the time will come when everyone must be responsible for the crimes committed. In health care: the President of the SAO said in August that corruption is spreading throughout health care and there is chaos in health care. Corruption is there for every single public procurement, and it can be monitored accurately. You can see exactly how the billions sent from the European Union disappear in X-ray acquisition, how they disappear in the acquisition of disinfectant machines, and this is documented here at home. There is almost no public procurement that has been otherwise centralised, because 80 percent of all public procurement in healthcare is realized at the Health Care Centre, where the money disappears from one month to the next at the Hungarian Competition Authority. The Hungarian Competition Authority will provide a detailed description of where the public procurement law is to be played, and its name is not through small companies, through stroms, to drain these funds. From the commission that you will receive next, you will pay the penalties imposed by the Hungarian Competition Authority. That is why, among other things, the European Public Prosecutor's Office should be joined. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-330	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Arató is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-331	Mr President, Dear House, It is well known that European federalism is not far from the Democratic Coalition, and we would be the happiest if 21 of those Member States were now 22 because I think Malta is now being recruited; 22 Member States are supporting the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we would be very pleased if there were so many federalist governments in Europe, but of course there are no. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that it is a mistake to confuse these two things and make the case of the European Public Prosecutor's Office look like a federalist-soverenist debate. It's a much simpler story than that. European taxpayers, who are Hungarians, but not just Hungarians, are satisfied that in some Member States, not only in Hungary, but in Hungary, there are undoubtedly many impressive examples of this, European Union funds are treated as if they were the pocket money of the current government, as if they were money that could be spent freely on anything, in violation of any rules. It is also an experience that some of the public prosecutors in the Member States are not particularly diligent in protecting the interests of the European Union, whether it is the use of EU funds or the collection of partly EU VAT. You may remember the green dossier and remember when some fidesz leaders were banned from the United States of America for VAT fraud cases. So I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a legitimate demand here, a legitimate Community demand. And when you refuse to join the European Union prosecutor's office in order not to give them the chance to show any abuse, you are putting the national interest at risk, because it is quite clear that Hungary will fall from very serious subsidies. But there's no problem. If what you are saying here is true, that there is no corruption, that everything is okay with EU money, then you have nothing to fear from the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Then support this proposal tomorrow, but tomorrow all non-voting confessions about the extent of corruption in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-15-332	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur, Mr Tamás Bellozó indicated that he wished to respond to what was said. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-333	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your comments. I would suggest to my fellow Member, Fidesz, that you ask your experts to upgrade their science a little, the actuality of the paper you read is a little worn out. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: Very!]] Firstly, thank you very much for the support of the opposition in Parliament. Secondly, of course, we thank the opposition parties and the opposition parties and civil movements going beyond it for their help on the street. We know and feel very well, and the reason why this is the case is that we may be talking about a case where the opposition has been able to fight in a manner that extends from the joint opposition Tiborcz investigation committee to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, without any party policy. Because two things are certain; one: if this goes on, Hungarian people will actually suffer very serious damage if the European Union actually suspends sending EU money to Hungary. I would add that many people are saying that by doing so, Viktor Orbán will take Hungary to our exit from the Union, which is the only value of the European Union, without the money. The other real stake is that it is really possible to counter the core of the Fidesz system. A corrupt system always requires the payment and maintenance of oligarchs, minions. Unfortunately, what we are seeing today is that a good part of the EU's resources serve this. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will be able to permanently prevent this process and, if you like, to overthrow the entire Orbán system as such. I think it is in the interest of every citizen who wants to live in a decent country to do so. Once again, I ask every voter to help us get political support for this, not in Parliament, but on the streets. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-15-334	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 1992 LXVI on the register of citizens' personal data and address. T/872. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[20.20]]
u2018-10-15-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to start with the facts that led me to prepare this proposal. On 14 February 2018, RTL Klub's newscast reported that the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Attorney General's Office launched an investigation into 1400 naturalised citizens in February 2018 due to the fact that a number of localised citizens had been reported in the county. There was a house on a tower where 340 people checked in. The house is uninhabited and uninhabitable, no one has ever seen those people in this village. Then the NAV also launched an investigation, and we hope, in effect, that it will come to an effective end. In more than half of Szabolcs County, the number of reported populations increased by 25 percent in the last spring. To anyone who doesn't suspect that, he really doesn't live in this country. This is a hotbed for electoral fraud and abuse of Ukrainian pensions. Then Kispaladád and this village were also mentioned in the news, from 460 to 1370 inhabitants in four months. There was no doubt that these were in the interest of abuse. But this is not new, because even before the 2014 elections similar problems arose, and even when Fidesz finally won the elections in Zugló, 700 people from a village in Szabolcs County came to live in Zugló. That's more than suspicious. On 9 October 2014, a report was published in the media that there is a pension in Soroksár, a Viktória Pension, where thousands of permanent residents have signed up for a year and a half, most of them are Romanian citizens. When asked the district clerk, he replied that the legislation currently in force did not give him the opportunity to refuse these address announcements. There are some municipalities in the country, by the way, which quite rightly defined the number of citizens who can report to a property in 6 square meters/person, but this is extremely small in the country. In order to end this extremely unworthy, and I believe that democracy, a series of frauds, which is deeply degrading to the rule of law, with addresses and address announcements, this dictates that we, legislators as responsible Members, must begin to settle this issue with legislation in some way. In the Justice Committee, to which I myself am a member, the reason for my fellow members of the Government was that they had not heard of such a problem, and they felt that it did not require legislation. My goal with this motion was, or our goal with this motion was that, at least together, the Members of Parliament should recognise this problem responsibly, and start together, whether, if this proposal does not please, to create legislation, and at the end it may come out of something that people say, finally, something, the Members recognized frauds, recognized the legal deficiency, recognized abusive law, hallelujah, finally agreed on something, and eliminated these unspoken situations. This is why we decided to maximize the number of persons who can be declared to a residence in 10, but this number 10 is also extremely gallant, as according to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, 2,19 people are registered in a household in Hungary. So there would still be five times as many people who can be declared to be laid down in the legislation as dictated by the conditions of life in question. Of course, there is no doubt that in a family with a soul greater than 10 who live under the same roof, this does not apply to those who are under the same roof, since family relations override this rule. So if, in a place of residence, up to 20-30 people, several generations and families with many children live together, it will not suffer the entry into force of this legislation. We also thought that relations so far should be eliminated, i.e. the abuse that has been committed so far, and in this respect we have defined a very coherent procedure that is in line with the legislation for the tasks of the Government Office and the notary. I would ask my honourable Members to include this proposal in the subject series, since it could be a very nice piece of legislation during the debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-15-336	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and the first independent Member may speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Mr István Vitányi, from the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-15-337	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address submitted to this House and the aim pursued by the adoption of the proposal will not be met from a number of professional points of view. Our position that the Parliament should not include the proposed proposal in the series of articles is strengthened by the constitutional and social interests that should be considered firmly and vigorously. The Fundamental Law of Hungary gives every person legally resident within the borders of Hungary the right to free movement and the freedom to choose a place of residence. This regulation of the Hungarian legal order fully complies with the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The aforementioned right may be limited by the State in the event of an exceptional situation, an emergency and an unexpected and dangerous natural or social event. The regulation of the proposal to maximise the number of people notified to the same address goes against the State's obligation to protect fundamental rights, that the State must protect and safeguard this right of liberty. Furthermore, the restriction set out in the proposal does not comply with the constitutional requirement of necessity and proportionality, since we can only speak of a justified restriction for the reasons previously described. Our law on the electoral procedure in force effectively ensures voting in other settlements for those who do not reside on election day and indicate this in good time to the competent local electoral office. However, it should be noted in the first place that the law does not bind the exercise of the right to vote to the place of residence in Hungary, so the place of residence is only mentioned in connection with the inclusion in the register of voters. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The text of the proposal is vaguely and by no means clear as to which criteria a given place of residence can be classified as fit for housing. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz fraction does not support the inclusion of the legislative proposal before us. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-338	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Ander Balázs is next. Here you go.
u2018-10-15-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Apart from Ference Gyurcsány and his party, there was a consensus on the idea that Hungarians across the border should be subject to suffrage, but the governing parties managed to drag this sublime idea down into the puddle, and they managed to desecrate it. What's going on here is a category of the most insufferable election fraud. Please, Mr Vitányi, how would you rate it when, for example, 167 people were announced in a house in Bácsbodok that had neither a door nor a window? Let's not make fun of each other. It would be very nice if I didn't think the voters, the Hungarian people, were stupid! Or how did more than 5,000 people end up in the Városnámény constituencies? ! These figures did make a significant contribution to enabling them to influence individual results in the constituency where appropriate. And then you made it easier to cross the border, you also opened border crossings that, by the way, are closed, even on Easter, just so that people with a fictitious address, which is likely to be paid something, who could not even speak Hungarian properly, come here, and give the votes to which they were defined. The Jobbik says no to this, but you in the Justice Committee have also taken this entire package of proposals, which, by the way, have been perfectly worked out and thrown into the trash can. Shame, shame! I think we should listen to the criticisms that Congresswoman has said here. Not three people live in an ordinary Hungarian household. This proposal is very generous, we would maximize it in 10 people, otherwise the relatives could still increase it. So you have closed your ears to this constructive proposal. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] remain in the way of fraud. Shame! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2018-10-15-340	Thank you very much. Mr Tamás Harangozó is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-341	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The MSZP supports the proposal. [[Lajos Korózs: Yay! Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2018-10-15-342	Thank you very much. From the Group of Dialogue, it is up to Congressman Bence Tordai, here you are, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Dialogue also supports the proposal, which will prevent Fidesz election fraud, which will result in two thirds in this election and probably in the previous one. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-344	Thank you very much. From the group of the LMP, Mr Péter Ungár is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-15-345	I'm really glad I got the word, because it's been rare lately, so I'd like to talk about these two minutes. I'd like to show a little restraint on this one. The LMP also supports this proposal. I would just like to respond to what the Member said about the fact that not only those who have a registered address can vote in Hungary. By the way, this applies to everyone except, say, those who live in Western Europe. They went under the Orbán government to make a living there, and then they couldn't live with their voting rights. They cannot exercise their voting rights, because there are more people in Britain who have to travel between 300 and 400 kilometers to the nearest embassy and have to line up for several hours; while these people who were in this door and in a house without windows could very quickly exercise their right to vote. Here, therefore, a distinction is made between Hungarian and Hungarian citizens. We support everything that solves this difference, including this proposal. And by the way, I assume that if you think the congresswoman's proposal is not good professionally and you are on fire to improve it professionally, then you will be writing the amendments that you can submit before tomorrow's plenary and you can change it to meet your professional standards. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-346	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is the finding of an unworthy former Member that he has not been given the floor in every case, because since I have been sitting up here, he has been given the floor without limitation in every case. [[Péter Ungár: Mr. Speaker before him.]] From the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató is next, please.
u2018-10-15-347	Mr President, Dear House, I was very pleased to hear the argument made by the Member of the Fidesz since here, I understand, he referred to the United Nations Convention on Human Rights and the principle of proportionality and necessity. We rarely hear this in this House, and it would be a basis for us to discuss other issues. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, the Fidesz Members who refused to enter the series argued not that, but, on the one hand, that there is no phenomenon in which people are announced in a fictitious manner into housing before election, and, on the other hand, they argued that, otherwise, the authorities are still acting effectively against fictitious home address announcements. There are two possibilities again. One option is that my fellow Members are absolutely right. This phenomenon does not exist. The current legislation is sufficient. In this case, there is no phenomenon to which this law would apply, so I do not understand why they have an objection to dealing with this issue, because if there is no problem here, then obviously only this excellent state will be sanctioned by the bill. However, if what the opposition parties suspect is true, they claim, and the media has revealed in many ways that there are fictitious announcements, otherwise we know what they are... they say we do not know what kind of financial consideration. We know what the financial compensation is; the financial remuneration, my fellow Members, is the pension due under the Hungarian-Soviet pension agreement. So they're buying these people with the pension fund money, by the way. If there is such a phenomenon, then there is a very good reason for it to be covered by legislation. There are serious doubts about the legal solutions proposed by the bill, some of which have been mentioned by the Member, but we consider that this proposal should be brought before the Parliament and we should look for better legal solutions here, also in the context of an important public interest, the foundation of confidence in the election. That is why we are in favour of putting it on the agenda.
u2018-10-15-348	Thank you very much, Congressman. I see that Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-15-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support of the opposition factions, as we have all suffered the election result resulting from these frauds in the elections of 14 and 18 respectively. My colleague from Vitány had two points. One is the right of constitutional freedom to move and choose a place of residence, and the other is that illegal registrations could have been abolished until the election, and there is a legal institution that can prevent this from being abused. My question to the first question is why, after I said in the submission that several municipalities defined the number of residents who could be declared at 6 square meters/person and applied this, Fidesz did not oppose the adoption of these municipal decrees and why they did not turn to the Constitutional Court to destroy them, because if these provisions were constitutionally offensive in this law, then the municipal decrees are constitutionally offensive. That is what I would like to say in this regard. Unfortunately, in the issues raised by me and in the cases raised by my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs, the announcements were not cleared by any administrative procedure until the election, and therefore these citizens voted on the basis of all the residence announcements established by fraud in Hungary. So, in practice, the voting and election order has been disrupted, and unfortunately, today the public administration is not at the level to follow up on fraud to eliminate illegal situations, and this is how we got to the point that, in countless constituencies, these distorted and unlawful, misuse of rights logins have generated election results. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like you to include it in the vote series.
u2018-10-15-350	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Are there any other environmental authorities in this country? Mr László Hajdu has applied for a speech on the agenda entitled "The DK Group." There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-351	Dear fellow Members present, We've heard there's a problem in health care, we've heard that there's a problem with population records. I would like an example of another area of concern, the environment and the work of environmental authorities, from my constituency, the 15th century. Bring it from the district to the House. Partly because of this pollution, which is circumstantial and land waste, downtown works, otherwise awarded in public procurement, sub-contractors of public works who won it, I think, for small money, they thought they were renting agricultural land or sub-terranean land and setting up a prison facility. Although the lease income, which we have considered to be at least so far, is considered to be a land-use contract, but they have practically established a landfill, which is estimated to be between 500 thousand and 1 million cubic metres of land on three properties. What I'm saying is that it's the helplessness and the pointing of each other that happened after that. These events take place in the autumn of 2017, and even though there are a number of laws governing these issues, it has no owner, no driver's license, and no one can take action in this case. Each licence shall be issued in accordance with Annex XV. It's for the district clerk. The notary, by the way, has taken an official decision which, of course, was challenged in court to bring the building debris to the landfill by the person who had concluded the land-use contract, and he said that he was the case for someone else... at the courthouse. We've been calling for disaster control, and disaster management says that disaster management doesn't belong here. We went to the police, tried to press charges. The police will not be able to deal with this unless some authority finds that it is hazardous waste and much more. About the waste itself, it's got asbestos, brick, human bones, a lot of other things, window glass, and whatever you can imagine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[20.40]] But they could've taken all of this out there in this huge amount. A mini Gellért Mountain was created next to M3 at the XV. outskirts of the district. And there's nothing we can do, the designated government authority is the Ordnance Office. The Érdian District Office does so regularly that I have received their submission, it indicates that this is your answer about, and that is your competence. Today, in this business world, when anyone can be purchased, it seems that at the time of compensation land distribution, he has acquired land ownership, but also a well-known private owner on land ownership. The land office, it is also a farmer among other things, so I've already listed eight farmers, everyone has a small portion of the case, but no one can take a comprehensive stand against it. They can't be fined, they can't be committed. Maybe a few years later, when these companies have self-destructed, then these companies will no longer be available, and maybe even XV. district, after administratively belonging to their territory, pay for its transport, or perhaps by some tender the Hungarian state will recreate this area. As a result of the rain and other effects, it is clear that chemical and biological processes have started with this waste, and wherever we go, there is no authority to determine that it is dangerous to the environment, and it is entitled to establish and issue these types of official papers. I think that this is anarchy in the environment, in the protection of land, in the protection of groundwater in the ground, there is no authority at all to implement environmental legislation. This is what we call environmental protection in Hungary today. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-15-352	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zoltán Magyar applied to speak after the agenda on behalf of the Jobbik Group on the message of the countryside. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-15-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, What I have done here in preparation for my speech after the agenda is that I have been looking at the news of the last 2.5-3 months about agriculture and rural development. I thought this was important, because if it is just constantly from the pro-government media, and let's face it, this is what the average citizen is getting information from, then there is some sort of landscape in his mind that everything is in order here, everything is on the right track, and the catching up of the Hungarian countryside and, in practice, the possibilities of rural life are constantly expanding and strengthening. Compared to that, let's just watch a few news flashes like that. The National Trading House and its entire system are a total failure, and now you have seen it, because they have retired, and this whole system is being dismantled here, which, who knows, has cost billions of forints of taxpayers' money so far. The reason I'm telling you this is because I've dealt with this issue in roughly a dozen written questions since the start of the trading houses to this day, and even you can't tell me exactly, or you don't want to tell me how much the taxpayer has cost to build this network so far. One thing's for sure, it's a total failure. I'm sorry, because basically, it could have been decent and well done, if it wasn't just a story about the expansion of some of your food companies. But even so, dead, it's very interesting that the system spent 60 million on communication after they announced it was over. At the time, there was also news of bee mortality. For many years, we have been forced to talk about the fact that in our country bees are found in unexplored conditions but destroyed by their owners. This year, this has increased so much that virtually half of the Hungarian bee population has been destroyed. The background is likely to be a complex process, where not only chemicals, but also mites and thus transmitted infections generally weaken the immune system of bees and cause this problem. In any case, no action has been taken, although there have been serious studies on the part of the profession, which I have also sent to you in recent years, accompanied by my written question. There have been worrying news about development resources, since in cases where time has been delayed on such grounds, but the winners have not been selected in time and then the projects have been launched, there has been a 30% increase, which is not included in the winning proposal. However, the person who submitted the tender does not know that he does not want to take on this additional cost. In this form, different data have come to light at different levels of development, but about 30 percent of these projects are virtually returned and will not be realised simply because of delay. Negro. This cultic, old Hungarian sugar, at least its production, costs Turkey. Once upon a time, even at the Danone Boycott, I can mention names of my fellow government colleagues who were very rightly involved in the company's boycott. They are now trying to avoid this scandal in silence, and the previously well-known Győr sweets industry is virtually shut down, and candy production is already abroad. Perhaps a word about the well scandal is worth mentioning. There's a total communication disturbance here at different levels. The secretary of state, the representative of the Chamber, says something quite different about what an average Hungarian citizen should do now, who has a well at home. Even Áder was a little messed up when President of the Republic didn't sign it at first, and there was some sort of conflict with the government. To this day, we can only see the smokescreen. Here, too, the answers to my written questions, depending on which ministry I ask, also contain contradictions. So it would be nice if, let's say, you and I could work this out first. There's sad news about puppies. In practice, our country has become the most infected country in Europe in this area. In amazing conditions, net animal torture is taking place in virtually countless cases of reproductive material, causing damage not only to animals, but also to decent, well-famous Hungarian dog breeding. Here, too, I would like to expect much more effective action from the government. We could also talk about the infected people, who, unfortunately, obtained various diseases through foods that ran through the Nebih system, and I collected at least three more two-page speeches, but I will continue this next week. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-354	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, from Jobbik's group: Where are the tourist developments in the Balaton-destination? He spoke with a title on the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-15-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It wasn't a month ago when I asked an oral question about when electric buses would be allowed to ride in Balatonfüred, Siófok and Keszthely, because it was a project lasting three years, and I thought I would get a meaningful answer as to when to travel with these electric buses purchased during the tender. Then Minister of State replied, sooner or later, and I should turn to the Hungarian Tourism Agency, because they will tell me when these electric buses will be able to ride. Following Mr. Secretary of State's proposal, I took part in the meeting of the Balaton Development Council on Friday two weeks ago, precisely because I saw that the first item on the agenda was the domestic development, mainly the report on tourism developments, and that there we could ask the Hungarian Tourism Agency how which project could be implemented. And we are confronted with it when the chairman, Mr. Director, tells us that the Hungarian Tourism Agency did not appear at this Balaton Development Council meeting, but did not send any information directly. Running away? Then why does the Secretary of State tell us to turn to the Hungarian Tourism Agency to get the answers when the Balaton Development Council, who brings together the Balaton program's developments with HUF 368 billion and we should receive the information from it, we do not know that? [[20.50]] And then the latest news, last Friday. In the reply of the Secretary of State, it was also that I would bludgeon this issue, since I had a project worth HUF 2 billion, but during the development of transport, there will be railways, railway stations, bus stations, and the procurement will be carried out, and how much more important it will be. Yes, but last Friday, the public procurement issued by NIF Zrt. on 12 April 2018 was withdrawn. as a performer, on the grounds that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology moved the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. He will disposal over this development of transport, he will issue public procurement. It's been six months, I beg you, for nothing! And so goes every single public procurement, and constantly, as time goes by, every public procurement will be more expensive. Well, let's face it, is that what this is all about, making it expensive again? Because if public procurement is announced today, because we are talking about large amounts, open tendering in the European Union, or at least I trust it, because it would be fair and open, we will see, but we will certainly see that nothing will happen this year, this will go on again, and we will be there that these development projects will not be able to achieve with the amount they have planned. It's very clear. So who's gonna add the money to that again? Then the government? Is it because someone figured out that NIF wasn't doing it, but the Hungarian Tourism Agency? I see it's a mess. Secretary of State directed me to the Hungarian Tourism Agency. I didn't get the answers to my questions until now, but I'm not giving up, I'm going to keep going, and I'm going to be able to get there to find out when, who and what he's going to do, and most of all how much money. After all, everyone here is farming with Hungarian taxpayers' money. When these decisions are made, responsible decisions should be made and not tossed from place to place like hot potatoes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-356	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Also from the Jobbik Group:. Why do we have to put our hands deep in the pockets when we park in the hospital? Mr László György Lukács has applied for a speech on the agenda with the title. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-357	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Waiting for you is so hard for a night to sing. This may not only be familiar to those who listen to hits, but also to those who say they have to spend a night in a hospital parking lot, even waiting for their relatives, because we also know that this is not a cheap party in Nyíregyháza and Debrecen, for example. And as we know there is no pine without Christmas, it is quite obvious that land use and parking are not without money. But how much to pay is the main question, because we all know that once you park, you have to pay a fee. As rural representatives, many of us face the fact that the parking fee in Budapest is not only not easy to park, but expensive. But we think about this again, because in Nyíregyháza, Szolnok, Debrecen, we could list the big cities, in hospitals there is not only such a high parking fee in Budapest, but there is a much more brutal, horritable amount to pay. Just to give you a simple example, most of our hospitals have the first half hour free, but for example, Szolnok doesn't give us the second half hour cheaply. After the first half hour, every half hour costs a thousand forints. Fellow Members, if you want to wait at the hospital for four hours, for example, you will find that it cost you 7,000 forints to park. But in Debrecen the party is not cheaper, there is 4,000 forints to be paid for in the same way. I would add that even on Margaret Island you can park cheaper in Hungary, which is a prominent recreational place, and where cars are not welcome, you can park more cheaply every hour. In fact, it is safe to say that even at Liszt Ferenc International Airport you can park cheaper than at some of our hospitals. Of course, the question can be asked whether this is good or bad. It must be bad at one thing, my fellow Members: health care, hospital is a public service that needs to be given the greatest access to everyone. This means not only that it should be physically close to him at some level, but that the hospital itself must be accessible. These hospitals can be approached either by car, by car or by car or by car, or by more and more frequent public transport services. In many cases, it takes a very serious logistics to get to hospitals from a remote settlement. There were times when I brought myself from the railway station in Karcag, poor people who couldn't find bus connections, train connections, and they had to come back to the city, and they had to spend a night in the city at the bus station, so that the next day they could get home to their destination not so far away, where appropriate, 60 to 70 kilometers away. So basically, it is necessary to see whether access to health care is not only reflected in the existence of a general practitioner, not only in the location of the hospital, but also in whether it is possible to reach it at all, and even in a human way to wait around it. It is also obvious that the area of hospitals cannot be turned into a parking garage, it is for healing. However, we also see that the government and even the municipalities have not done much to make the area of hospitals parkable and usable. In many cases, we have seen that the municipalities or even the institutionkeeper, if this area belonged to it, almost ignored the fact that people arrive there by car, parking places are not operated, they are not maintained, they are not painted. A lot of hospitals are experiencing this. As a Karcagi resident, I can also give you the example of Karcagi, people parked illegally, on the grass, in the mud, with the weather selected, completely irregularly, by the way. They just can't stop where they're going, because the parking spaces that could have been built a long time ago were saved. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation seems to be a marginal issue, but it is annoying to a lot of people. It is also important to highlight this because, in recent years, the government has said that nearly HUF 500 billion has been spent on an unimaginably large amount of health care, of which a large part, HUF 330 billion, went into concrete. This means buildings, their glazing or the building of walls. But in addition, a large part of it was saved from parking spaces or hospital parking spaces, which were really for patients in the 21st century. He would have been able to secure his 100th-century health care. And what the government saves or saves: while they save on the fact that patients do not have to pay very expensive parking out of their own pockets, Minister Miklós Kasler plans to introduce a paid health care system. While they're saving up for patients to pay these parking tickets out of their own pockets, their families are constantly getting rich. Ladies and gentlemen, There are exclamational differences, even in such small matters. We want to achieve it, and Jobbik proposes that we look at the whole question and have a cultured, XXI. 100th-century parking space near any hospital available at a very reasonable and normal price. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-358	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, from Jobbik's group, applied for a speech with the title 'No-go zones'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-359	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For exactly 12 years on the day, a raging horde of Olaszliszka lynched the respected Tisavasvár teacher Lajos Szögi in the presence of two of his daughters. This tragedy was almost repeated the other day in Encsen, where a woman in her fifties had to be rescued from the clutches of these savages, who, I must say, tried to lynch this unfortunate woman to the level of the Paleolite Stone Age, to the level of her brutality. It's a shame, by the way, that the D.A. didn't think they had to be arrested in advance. Only fools and politically correct people do not see a very sad future forming in Hungary's lonely peripheral regions, the enigmatic areas ticking as many time bombs under the cohabitation and the public rest of the country. Social disintegration, in parallel with the full ethnic exchange, is forecasting gloomy decades, especially in North-East Hungary. We're a freedom-loving couple, so we don't like or accept taboos, polcorn taboos. This was also done by János Ladányi, who could not really be accused of some right-wing inclination. Several years ago, he said to the People's Freedom, and he didn't put his head in the sand either. [[21.00]] He said: "In recent decades, the proportion of people living in segmented settlements has increased strongly, in Cserehát, in the north and northeast part of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, the ghetto villages are beginning to connect. This has never been the case in Hungarian history, and the state has left here, giving up this part of the country. The non-Gypsy population is getting old or moving away. This is a real threat that there will be those who see the solution to the problem in territorial autonomy and may even be separated from Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The parallel is strange, because Fidesz talks about how they don't want no-go zones and what's going on in the declining West. Fidesz talks a lot about not wanting parallel societies. However, we see that in some rural peripheral parts of Hungary, these parallel societies have already evolved, and we believe that the question of how credible the government's integration policy and its success can be. In our opinion, three things are quite certain. One is that this mutilated little Hungary is indeed too small for another Trianon. The second thing is that anyone in Hungary should belong to any minority, they must comply with the standards of co-existence binding on all. And the third thing I ask you, Mr President, is to believe me, with all my heart, is that it is our responsibility and duty that the Roma people who see the future of their responsible children in learning and work, who accept the standards of coexistence, who do not see the solution in some tribal racism or even in a modernized, ethno-nationalist version of it, or in separatism, should be better for us. These hardworking, honest gypsy people must be seen as our compatriots. But we must also say that the set of problems that we are facing with regard to integration and non-integration must be addressed. We should be more concerned than the government has done so far, so much more attention should be paid to these ghetto regions. And if you look at how many billions, how much forints of EU or domestic resources have gone to Wolfs, Voldemort or even in the other corner of the country, to the Simonka business in the southeast, then you have to see and say that these money would have had a place elsewhere, could have been better used. Thank you for your attention, and I ask that we consider these problems together. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-15-360	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the Speaker of Parliament, has been disqualified from today's sitting. It is therefore impossible for a Member to speak after the agenda. On the other hand, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, spoke after the agenda with the title "Monsieurs of Culture." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-15-361	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that in the film Jurassic Park, there is one where life always finds a way. Today, my fellow Members were unable to express their speeches because of László Kövér's arbitrary conduct, but they are here, so they are speaking in the Chamber. Although they have already excluded themselves from working and have excluded themselves from participating in the work of the meeting. The first would be the interpellation of Krisztina Hohn. Why is a public school built in Debrecen? It's an address. I am very sorry that Congressman Lajos Kósa is not here to listen to this or to receive an answer. But it is important to know that a school in Debrecen, a school that is supposedly or according to press reports, is built with a public budget of HUF 3.3 billion, and that is why it would have been good to get an answer to that, because then we will find out whether it will or not have to pay up to HUF 5 million for a tuition fee. We were supposed to ask the Mekk Master of State Ministers, Bence Rétvári, why is it that we pay something with public money, and then they collect tuition fees. Why are we paying for something in public for which there's tuition? Why are we paying for a private school in Debrecen for public money? Why is it that public money is not spent on investing in public education? By the way, there is another part of this question that the Debrecen school operator is partly the Debrecen education centre, 97% and partly state property. My question is, if there is 97:3 share of municipal-state property, will there still be a source that this school in Debrecen will receive, whether there will still be public money that will be paid in excess of this 3.3 billion. I would go on to see if there is an agreement with the BMW plant; it is not possible to know whether this agreement has an educational part or whether this agreement has something to do with the private school renovated from public funds. Because if so, it would only reflect the multi-friendly policy that the Orbán government is pursuing. In addition, the municipality has set up a scholarship system, which we do not know exactly what it means, has not been given any details, but we do know that foreign students receive a tuition discount. So all we would have asked was if my fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, had not been excluded, his question would have been whether it would not have happened if BMW had been supplied with workers, otherwise BMW would not have paid taxes, and we would have built a school for these workers, for whom the government would even give a tuition discount if they came from abroad. So this was supposed to be the case in Debrecen. Furthermore, László Keresztes Lóránt LMP group leader would have had an immediate one, which could not be said either. Here, it would have been basically focused on rural universities. The most terrible thing is that 31 percent of the working population has a higher education degree in 2017, the Hungarian average is 7 percent lower than the EU average, but if we look at this by region, then there are regions where this is more than two figures. Fidesz would say that these statistics have improved. Otherwise, this would not be factually true, because these statistics are generally deteriorated. I'll keep going. If we know how much the tuition costs and the tuition fee will be, it is a major problem that we think social mobility should matter not in a country where it is born, but in how much talent it has, it is basically destroying it, but if the college placement still contributes to the tuition, very few people will otherwise have dorm accommodation compared to what it should be, but in Pécs, for example, an average dorm placement is 70,000 forints. If someone is asked to pay hundreds of thousands of forints every six months for a course, and there is still 70,000 forints for college placement, then even if he is willing to work with him, how will he be able to participate in higher education? That would have been the question he couldn't ask László László Keresztes because of his ban. I'm moving on. Here with regard to Corvinus and ELTE, Minister Palkovics stated that this will be his model, the Corvinus model, which will prevail in higher education. Our question was whether ELTE Zrt. will be formed, whether the University of Pécs will be a public limited company, whether university students may have to attend a shareholder meeting, whether they can buy a stake in the new Corvinus, whether someone will do so, what will be the exact way of privateisation, and how will they be able to participate. So life is always on the road, the LMP, if you have something to say, always tells you. So I thank the opposition colleagues very much for listening to me; hopefully we will get an answer from the ruling party. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-15-362	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, I'm sorry, I have to ask you something, you're a very intelligent man. Why do you have to use a pejorative adjective to describe someone who's not present, who can't answer? [[Péter Ungár: Monologue or Dialogue?]] It doesn't make sense. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you all for your work. We'll continue our work tomorrow morning at 8:00. I wish you all a good night, a peaceful, peaceful night.
