u2018-11-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 23rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Attila Móring József and László Varga. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of a new Secretary of State to the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr József Attila Móring to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2018-11-27-1	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of Article 2 of the Prime Minister's proposal, with effect from 1 December 2018, Dr. Zoltán Kovács was appointed State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. Budapest, 26 November 2018 Sincerely: János Áder
u2018-11-27-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Mr Zita Gurmai, from the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Government propaganda is very fond of the refugee issue. Not a day goes by without being alarmed by migrants who are about to storm our country. All right, let's talk about refugees and refugees. You may not even know that every year Hungarian people, especially mothers and their children, are fleeing their homes in the thousands. Yeah, they're refugees, and they're getting just as much care from the Orbán government as they are. It's a good thing they're not being deported from the country. Every time an immigrant assaults a white European woman, they don't move their ears if the European woman is Hungarian and the perpetrator is Hungarian. This Sunday, November 25, was the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. So let's talk about why the Orbán government supports everyday violence because that's what you do. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, my God!]] They not only assist in violence against women, but also encourage rapists as co-conspirators. Remember Seres Barbara? You know, his kid was thrown out the window by his ex-partner. Barbara didn't get protection, and she asked for it, and she begged for it. You didn't give me the warning signs. But I could also mention the case of Erika Renner, who was dumped by her ex-partner in jealousy with lye, mutilating her genitals. In Erika's case, there were signs, and a while before the attack, they didn't dare go anywhere without an escort, but they didn't believe him. After that, he was the one who was humiliated again and again. For example, the judge asked him the question that his sheath with lye had caused him any problems in everyday life. Humiliation, abuse, and insensitiveness are given to women who suffer violence instead of justice. It is also clear from this that even at the level of the application of the law, there is a visceral victim error in Hungary. Yet, Erika Renner had the courage to fight through those five years of judgment. He's done more on his own against domestic violence than this government has done in the last eight years. Because unfortunately, his case is not unique. Statistics show that one third of women experience violence in their lives, one in three women. One in five women is regularly abused by her husband or partner. Without the need for completeness, let's get a list of what this government and you didn't do, in case you understand how much your crime is. You do not ratify the Istanbul Convention to combat domestic violence, this is a despicable waste of time, the silence of troubles, the abandonment of women. The Orbán government has failed to provide adequate protection for the victims. Who is today a victim, flees with children, hungry, without money, often to the other side of the country, because only there will he find refuge. And the Orbán government is watching all of this from the VIP box, while apparently cheering on the rapists, helping them. And, Mr. Secretary, please don't you dare say in your answer that there are seven new crisis clinics. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] 6 percent of Hungarian GDP comes from European Union sources. You've been in government for eight years, and in that time, it's been so little. Your fellow Member was the patriot who smashed his partner's face in pieces and then lied about going through a blind comondo. They're chasing homeless people and other poor people while protecting and even supporting women's abusers. In addition, you not only indulge and encourage violence, but also commit it governmentally. Violence against women means not only physical or psychological terror, but also existential threats. The latest government idea of a reform of the labour code is exactly like this. The retention of overtime money for years, the work of working women from morning to night, is an existential violence, an anti-mother and an anti-family slave law. You think it's the year of families, but in the meantime, they're forcing family members to work more and they're taking the overtime money away from them for years. Why don't you ask him about that in the consultation questionnaires? Why didn't they ask if families wanted to work more without getting overtime for up to three years? All you can do is talk about the respect and protection of women. We expect and even demand that Hungarian women receive as much protection as possible against all forms of physical, psychological and existential violence. As long as the Orbán government does not take concrete steps, do not dream that Hungarian women will believe anything you believe. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-11-27-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to reject the statement made on the question that the Member has raised. The Orbán government has never supported any form of violence, unlike the 2006 violence that you committed and even conducted. The second is that, as the successor to a party that wanted to train tractors from women, it is said that employment relations would be a force for violence against women, too, these are very strong slippages. On the point raised by the Istanbul Convention: perhaps the Member was not in yesterday, the same speech was made, where we clarified that practically all the positive progress has been made since the signing of the Convention, which serves the protection of women. Today, the strictest criminal law rules in Europe are in Hungary in this area, and the signing of the Convention would only open up debates that are currently of a divisive nature in society, so to speak, so this should continue to be considered. I would like to draw attention to the fact that 13 Member States have still not ratified the Convention, so we are not at all late in this area and I would stress that we have already taken all the steps to protect women. If we recall, in 2013, the right-wing majority of Parliament significantly tightened the punishment of the various forms of domestic violence, made contact violence a stand-alone reality; turn to it, Congresswoman, the minutes of the time, and study the legislation adopted at that time. The main purpose of the legislator was to place the human dignity, existential security, self-determination, personal freedom and physical integrity of persons in contact under special legal protection. The exemption of family-type relationships from violence in a broad sense is not only an individual but also a social interest, which has been emphasised by the legislator in all legislative acts. The Btk. the limitation period has been increased, the majority of the offences will be set at the upper limit of the sentence, but at least five years will expire after the previous three years. [[9.10]] I would stress that this was not the case in your day. The rules weren't so strict until 2010. All of a sudden, you're all enlightened, and now you don't think tightening up is hard enough. So, quite a demagogic position, which you represent on this issue, and, in fact, the substantive steps that have been taken when the situation of women has been eased over the past period, have not been voted on. We consider the help of the victims to be particularly important, and the Hungarian government will spend HUF 3 billion on the budget of the various supply systems until 31 December 2020. The source for the development of crisis management services is HUF 1 billion 160 million. This design will include the development of the national crisis management and information telephone service and training of about 5,000 professionals from the child protection signalling system. The source for the, Commissioner's Restaurant programme is HUF 1 billion 640 million. The construction aims to complement each other in terms of the complex elements of the supply system for victims of contact violence and trafficking in human beings. With an envelope of HUF 6 billion for HUF 200 million, the application for the pre-victim prevention programmes could be applied for in the framework of the family application. At present, 17 organisations implement knowledge-enhancing activities based on a common methodology within school frameworks. The priority project "Family-friendly country" is linked to the fight against contact violence on three points. It supports the implementation of a national representative research to assess the involvement of violence in relations, the general level of knowledge and attitudes on the subject; it describes the complexity of the phenomenon of violence in relations. Within the framework of the project, a national campaign will be launched to highlight the unacceptable nature of the violence in relations and the importance of signaling the problem as soon as possible. In addition, publications are prepared for professionals and stakeholders. Developments started in 2017 and are still being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to emphasise that the government rejects all forms of violence against women and is committed to eliminating abuse. These take the form not only of words but also of actions. What I would also like to stress is that in all these cases the prosecution has represented the charge, where exemplary penalties have been imposed in the courts. So any argument that objects to the functioning of the judicial authorities is not simply true. Indeed, serious penalties have been imposed, and indeed serious legislation has been adopted. In your day, it wasn't like that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-6	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Pintér, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry Fidesz MEPs thought of one just a week ago, and after eight hours of restful sleep they thought of why they shouldn't work the Hungarians stupidly, because they could. Why do employees have one mandatory day off a week if they have enough for one a month? Why can't they work 400 overtime instead of 250 hours a year? I mean, why can't two-handed workers spend an extra 50 days away from their families? There are shocking and shocking things planned to amend the Labour Code. After that, we were less surprised that all of this had been tabled as a motion by its own representatives, avoiding the necessary discussions and professional disputes with employers and trade unions, since there would not have been a single sane person who would have agreed to do so. Several points in the proposal include measures against workers and workers. I would increase the content of the working time limit to three years instead of one year so far, i.e. employers would be able to account for the average of three years for workers, overwork and the days off involved. This step can lead to fraud, which may result in workers being burdened beyond a healthy border. The worker cannot be expected to know, for years, how much he worked and his watch number was in line with the law. Do you know what else that means? If a person can be forced to work overtime for up to two and a half years, then he will receive compensation. The other part of the proposal, which I highlighted at the beginning of what I said, is a drastic increase in overtime from the current 250 hours to 400 hours. That's an extra day a week. The employer is given the opportunity to say that he invites his employee to work all day every Saturday. Due to the increased number of hours, the Hungarian worker has to do up to 14 months of work a year, which is simply inhuman and unacceptable. If the Fidesz majority of Parliament votes in favour of this draft, it will dig the graves of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian workers. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is outraged by the planned amendment to the Labour Code, and we regard it not only as family but also as directly against life. In the period Fidesz called the Year of Families, thousands of Hungarian workers would be deprived of being able to spend their earned free time with their families in calm conditions. If the draft is adopted, another tragic consequence will have to be dealt with. By setting up such unpredictable working conditions to eviscerate workers, economic emigration will be promoted to countries where the labour force can work in normal and calm conditions. 600,000 Hungarians have already gone abroad to work. Why do you want these people left behind in a rush? And the explanation for everything is that this proposal was put forward in the interest of the workers, so that anyone who wants to work and earn more can do it is simply ridiculous and sad. Ladies and gentlemen, Labour shortages must be addressed not by increasing hours of work, but by increasing salaries. Today, we are no longer in the '50s, when forced workers are expected to slav for the economy free on Saturdays. The proposed amendment to the Labour Code is unprofessional, inhuman and anti-family. Fidesz is once again on the side of the multinationals against Hungarian two-handed workers, as this amendment is only in their interest. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-27-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-27-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear House, Listening to the suggestion of the Member, I must say that the labour market is a constantly changing colourful, rich world, and here the rapid response is essential for flexibility and efficiency. The draft law amending certain laws relating to the organisation of working time and the minimum rental fee for temporary work aims to amend the current rules on working time and the conditions for better application of the working time framework. The aim of the draft is to enable workers working in a different working order from the general one in many economic areas and the employer who employs them to create working conditions adapted to the economic environment of our time. The draft law on the organisation of working time does not aim to change the current wage rules, although some wage issues are also raised in the context of the working time framework, so I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to the following positive data. In recent years, the government has taken decisive steps to significantly increase the level of wages. So, not only would the government destroy wages, but also took radical steps to move them in a positive direction. Between 2010 and 17, real wages, taking into account the impact of family benefits, increased by an average of 36.3 per cent at national level, twice as high as the 17 per cent increase in GDP over this period. More than average, the purchasing power of workers with multiple children increased by 45.8 percent, and those with three or more children by 64.8 percent. The dynamic growth of real earnings continued in the period January-August 2018. In addition to moderate inflation, real earnings, along with the family discount, exceeded a year earlier by 9.3 percent in the first half of the year. If this trend continues, this year may be the third year after 2016-17, when an average Hungarian employee can get about a month's salary surplus. According to the latest figures, real earnings increased by 9 percent in the first eight months of 2018 with no family discount compared to the same period of the previous year. The increase in earnings remains significant in the competitive sector. The multi-annual wage agreement concluded with the social partners in November 2016 plays an important role in significant growth. The Hungarian minimum wage rose from 2010 to 2018 by 87.8 percent, the third largest of the EU countries calculated in national currency. [[9.20]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time does not provide for the maximum amount of overtime, which can be established in the light of the provisions of daily and weekly rest periods, weekly working hours and annual leave. The rules of the Member States therefore address the issue considerably differently. The directive merely says that overwork must be limited. Under the Directive, for seven-day periods, the average working time, including overtime, should not exceed 48 hours, so the proposed amendment complies with the provisions of the Working Time Directive. The European Union's Working Time Directive does not contain a direct rule on the length of overtime, its maximum level can be established in the light of the provisions of daily and weekly rest periods, weekly working hours and annual leave. The rules of the Member States therefore address the issue considerably differently. Allow me some specific examples. Austria and Germany fix most of the labour law rules by collective agreement. Employers and trade unions may derogate from the statutory minimum standards in accordance with an agreement concluded with each other. In both countries, the maximum weekly working time may be 60 hours in the case of an agreement. Allow me a closer example: in the Visegrád countries, like Hungary, there is no significant historical basis for collective bargaining as in Western European countries, so the law sets out more detailed requirements here. In Poland and Slovakia, with the agreement of the worker, the period of overtime in any sector can be 400 hours. Honourable Congressman, As proposed now, workers will have to receive their basic wages every month over three years, even when they are doing less than average work due to their position. In the future, extra wages will also have to be paid for overwork other than the post. Economic catch-up must go hand in hand with this, which is followed by wages catching up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-10	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the Democratic Coalition, spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, While today's German press has revealed further details about how Gruevski got to Hungary, it is okay to find out that Viktor Orbán said that his ally had to be saved. Viktor Orbán has an ally with a common criminal. Hungary has a government of smugglers and a prime minister of smugglers. But to see exactly who we're dealing with when we're talking about the Gruevski case, let's also discuss the fact that Gruevski's cousin ran the secret services. In itself, it is impossible for a prime minister to entrust the secret services to his own relative. But this Gruevski's relative had 20,000 Macedonians watched, and he got caught. That's the kind of man he was. This man, this man, is the ally of Viktor Orbán of Gruevski. This man is excused and exonerated by the Orbán government. He is the personal VIP-migrant of the Orbán government and Viktor Orbán, who we do not know how he came here to this day, at least not in the official version, where he is at present, rests in one of Lőrinc Mészáros's luxury hotels, perhaps in one of his spas, in a spa where patients are not welcome, because Lőrinc Mészáros can even do that. But the question is, who else was used, whose interests was represented by Viktor Orbán when he did this maneuver. What would Vladimir Putin know about Viktor Orbán? And this information comes from Viktor Orbán before the change of regime, or he may have evidence of corruption scandals in recent years, which makes him practically an official of the Hungarian Prime Minister. And it is also a big question of how the European People's Party's Party's attitude to this is that it has elected the person who voted for the Sargentini report with the support of Fidesz as a top candidate. It would be good to know how the international and European consequences of this are coming along. What does NATO have to say about this story, how does the United States feel about this story? Also this morning's news, I'm sure you've met him, that the U.S. embassy indicates that he doubts Hungary's allies' commitment to the arms-smuggling case, when you hit a Russian arms-smuggling squad, and for some reason, criminals were released to Putin and not to the United States. This does not indicate that you would be committed to the European Union or to our NATO allies. It is also worth noting, while we are at the Gruevski case, that yesterday, in Parliament, it was also said what kind of communist tempo is the continuous development of this story. I'd like to say that while I'm sorry for everyone who's been dragged around in any system, this case is the communist tempo. I would like to say that in the 1950s, Khrushchev, Kádár, Tito, Mao were loading people exactly like this, and they decided who was being rescued from somewhere, who was hanged, who was exiled. What you're doing is exactly the communist pace. Don't tell anyone else who's calling the shots on you. And while we are at it, more and more people in this country are saying that Viktor Orbán eloped with a man because he too will look for a way to find out what his escape route will be when the appeal comes. Because he will come, because there is no system left, and no dictator has remained in power forever, nor will Orbán remain. It will therefore be very important for the judiciary to find a country, a safe country or a unsafe country to which the Hungarian Prime Minister can escape, and all those who have served this system in a vile way. Of course, we will wait for this time. And, of course, the time will come for this justice. And before the lost clay dander and the past eight years, the answer will be, well, that eight years began 16 years ago. I would just like to say that during the Medgyessy government, we joined the European Union and joined the Schengen area during the Gyurcsány government. The Gyurcsány government has negotiated with the European Union that at the last minute it has won EUR 1 billion, HUF 320 billion for Hungary at current prices, and Hungary had an esteemed government throughout Europe and the United States. At that time, the Hungarian Prime Minister was still received in the White House, and there was no need to make sleazy serial campaigns in the hope of this. I think that these times will pass, and there will be an inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-27-12	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I strongly reject the unfounded, disparaging words of Hungary's legitimate government and reject what it said about the Prime Minister. On 8 April 2018 Hungarian voters elected the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, the Prime Minister and Hungary's legitimate government, by a two-thirds majority. [[Gergely Harvestó: He was elected with a minority! Zsolt Gréczy: Plus cheating!]] I'll continue, thank you very much, Mr. President. There was excitement among the representatives in the DK benches. They do not seem to be able to listen patiently to my answer because they do not want to hear the truth, even though I am telling the truth, honourable Members. As far as the matter you are concerned, I would like to say that the procedures conducted by the immigration and asylum authorities comply with Hungarian law and international law in all matters. At the closed session of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly on 20 November 2018, the Director-General of the Immigration and Asylum Office provided credible information on the asylum application referred to in the statement before the agenda. The Hungarian authorities cannot provide information on any asylum procedure in order to comply with the provisions of the asylum law; only the applicant can be informed of the decision in accordance with the law. When it comes to asylum applications, honourable Member, Hungary gives everyone the right to a fair trial. It also pains you that Macedonia has built a fence, because you want to strengthen illegal immigration. [[Gergely Harvestó: When did we say that?]] It would be much more important to focus on the fact that around 70,000 migrants are still waiting on the Balkan route to enter the European Union. [[Gergely Harvestó: Only 69,999 left!]] [[9.30]] In recent days, the Greek authorities have brought 14,000 migrants to land, who will be on their way to Europe at any moment. You don't care what the impact of migrant cards will be; you're handing out anonymous credit cards filled with hundreds of euros among migrants, we don't know what the migrants are spending on. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And what effect it will have on human smuggling networks. Honourable Congressman, If you really cared about the security of Hungary and of the Hungarian people, the security that this government has guaranteed for years, and this security is recognised throughout the world, and Hungary is considered to be one of the safest countries in Europe and the world, so, fellow Members, if you respected these values, you would not claim what my fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy mentioned, completely unfounded when he compared the current Hungarian government to dictators in the 1950s. I strongly reject this, honourable Member. I believe that I must also reject the false and unfounded claims made by the Immigration and Asylum Office. I would like to draw your attention here, your attention, and also to the attention of this House, that the professional work of the Hungarian Office for Immigration and Asylum is also one of the best professionally recognised work in the European Union. I would also like to thank the staff of the Immigration and Asylum Office for the work they have done in the last three and a half years for Hungary's safety. [[Gergely Arató: You have not seen this request. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-27-14	Mr Harvester, I would like to ask that the dialogue be concluded now. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-27-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary adheres to the laws, the Hungarian authorities also act according to Hungarian laws and international laws. I would ask you, my fellow Member, to evaluate this work accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to apologize for bringing up a subject that will be on the agenda in the general debate during the negotiation of the law. But this is an important issue that I think must be repeated and said several times, and this is the next one. In the 2021 census, KSH plans to repeat the survey with an accurate name after a long time. The question arises as to why he is planning this, since the 2001 and 2011 censuses have been successfully complicated without having to take up a name. According to the official justification, KSH mentions four important things as to why this is necessary. One point is that data can be used better, because it can be linked to different administrative databases, and this will bring serious benefits. This is undoubtedly the case, but only if such administrative databases are available. Unfortunately, however, these do not exist, so even though there will be a roll call, there will be nothing to really connect. The other argument is that in the case of self-filling, people will take the questionnaire seriously and will provide appropriate data, as there have been instances of false data being provided earlier. However, I think that this issue can be dealt with properly by modifying software and by changing the address, so people can be persuaded not to give false data. Their third argument is that there is a roll-call census in several European countries, so there is international practice. This is undoubtedly the case, but it is a country that has long been a democracy, where the system of brakes and balances is working well, where the state is transparent, where there is, therefore, sufficient trust in people that the data provided to the state will not fall into the wrong hands and the wrong use. Finally, the fourth is the argument that at the moment of recording data automatically performs the pseudonymisation of data; it is included in the law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a moment, because it will be months from data collection to data processing. During this time, who, and how, can access the data? On the other hand, pseudonymisation can also be done by avoiding the real name, as it is possible to generate aliases from the address, which are suitable for identification, as it was before. What are the sources of danger that make me think that this law should not be adopted in any way? The first thing is, if they are going to ask for a name, then many will refuse to answer sensitive questions. After all, there are issues that are not required to be answered, such as nationality, religious affiliation or the health situation. So it will be a survey that will certainly not show the actual situation. The other thing is that data can be leaked during processing. This is all the more possible, because the Statistical Office plans to create an analytical kft., which will carry out the preparation, processing and publication of the data. I'm surprised because, to the best of my knowledge, there's been a census department in the KSH for a long time. So what's the census department gonna do, anyway? This is probably because it will make it easier to play the data. And let me finally mention something. We have a very, very bad historical experience. The data of the 1941 census was very harshly abused by politics. He pursued certain social groups on this basis and ordered evacuations. I'm talking about 1944-45-46. I'd like to ask you not to give us the opportunity to make such a recording. Keep recording anonymous, because there's a lot of seduction. I think we'll be able to sleep safer if the census takes place according to the old method. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I have to say that you are clearly playing sport by disparaging your former workplaces. The conclusions of the Dialogue faction are between them, but we've seen them before. First, you were one of the leaders of the Századvég Economic Research Center, and then after you left there, you made a lot of public statements that led to a final court decision that you weren't telling the truth and that you had to apologize. You used to be the president of the KSH, and according to my information, you've done the same thing with the KSH. You were received for professional consultation, received with honor, answered all your questions, and you argued with the porter on the grounds of the quality of your representatives, and you embarrassed your former secretary, who, by the way, is still working at the KSH, proving that she is an independent professional institution. And now he's doing the same thing here in Parliament. He abuses the quality of his representatives, because he brings his professional nuance to Parliament, I can't put it any other way, his own professional mistake, and he calls for this at his former workplace, and he asks Parliament for this, and thus also puts pressure on an independent institution, which is also independent under European law. It is also part of the story that you forgot to mention that in the history of Hungarian censuses, the 2001 was the first time the name was not added. László Majtényi, together with the data protection commissioner at the time, invented by the two of you. [[9.40]] So this is actually your professional nun. The 2011 census was based on this, and only in 2011 the census was recorded in Hungary in an unidentifiable manner. International practice doesn't know this connection you said. In 22 European countries, which carried out questionnaire data collections in 2011, the census was carried out in 21 European countries in a manner suitable for identity identification, and in addition to the inclusion of data on nationality and religion, in more than ten cases it is carried out in a manner suitable for identity identification, in addition to the inclusion of data on nationality and religion. So it can be said that this is the professional standard. But why is the bill so? Because KSH also considered it important to ask the Hungarian citizens how they would live in relation to the protection of their data in this regard. And what came out of the polls is that 83 percent of the respondents would give their names, so the problem and the danger you're trying to target here simply doesn't exist. Hungarian people are happy to give their names for statistical purposes as necessary for identification. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] And why is that? Simply because of methodological security, it makes it possible to identify clearly and to compare the name with administrative data, which is done only for statistical purposes, with appropriate legal guarantees and in a controlled manner. By the way, the necessary guarantees are contained in the bill. You also say similar things about inflation. It is also a favorite topic for the congressman, he always says that you feel that inflation is higher than official inflation figures say. What I can tell you is that science proves that your feelings are researched by science, which is called perceived inflation. So what you're saying actually has a history, a diagnosis, and a treatment from a scientific point of view. So, I'd like to ask you to drop the pressure and information campaign on this. In addition, what the country is planning to do in 2021 is strictly necessary to prepare for social, economic and political decisions, to better understand local communities, to carry out scientific research and analysis, so I would ask you not to abuse the quality of your representatives, not to make false statements, not to take account of professional nuances at your former workplaces, professionally dead-end ideas. Do not attack independent institutions on the basis of EU law and Hungarian law on a political basis and thus [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] do not try to put in a difficult position the national strategy program we call the census, and what we believe is extremely important. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-27-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the last eight years, we have seen the Orbán government not only playing with us, opposition representatives, but also with the lives, health and future of the Hungarian people, endangering our quality of life and our natural heritage. In 2010, Fidesz liquidated the independent Ministry of Environment by reducing integration bureaucracy, shredded it into the Agricultural Ministry, kicked out its substantial leaders almost immediately and scattered its ashes into two ministries. But later, the environmental background institutions and the authority responsible for representing environmental interests could not escape their fate. The government has made them completely weightless, the environmental and nature protection inspectorates, which have carried out official duties, have melted them into government offices. It's no coincidence, because it's a small effort to enforce the political will at hand. The political will of the government is always about, as we see, how an investment can be, putting the interests of an entrepreneur close to Fidesz ahead of environmental and nature conservation interests. This is how it has been possible in recent years that investments in green areas have received very big support, and nothing has been able to stop it, not even the threat of climate change. It is disappointing because politics has eaten up the living conditions of future generations at a huge pace. The destruction of recent years in the institutional system of environmental and nature protection has recently been perfected by the government. The recent government decision on the modernisation of public administration has struck a decisive blow to the remaining number of environmental and nature protection. The environmental secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, which includes the management of nature conservation, was reduced by more than 40 percent. In addition, experts working there for several decades were fired through the client gate. Unfortunately, the number of remaining background institutions has also been significantly cut. What will happen to the national parks has not yet been a reassuring answer. One of the biggest losses in recent years has been the protection of nature. National parks were forced to focus on ecotourism by cutting budget resources and kicking out experts, because they have to work on something. The preservation of biodiversity, the preservation of ecosystem services for the government does not mean much, but much more than how to make a good fat investment. A good example of this is the small railway project planned in the Csarna Valley, which, fortunately, has now been grounded, but it should also be guaranteed that this will never happen. In the northern part of the Börzsöny Mountains, at the border of the village of Kemence, there is an increased protection of the Csarna Valley, which is an unbroken forest area with about a thousand hectares. There hasn't been any logging in 40 years, which is unique in this country. Yet some have thought that the small railway from Kemencé to the entrance to the Csarna Valley could be extended. It is a three and a half kilometer stretch, which can also be visited on foot, which was previously decided by the government. This is a project, fellow Members, which would endanger one of the most valuable valleys in the Danube-Ipoly National Park. I have to ask what country we live in, where such a government decision can be taken, where the profit interests of some are better than the common interest of all of us. In the case of a well-functioning institutional system, the plan of the small railway in Csarna Valley, but other projects that seriously harm the environment and nature would not have reached this point, because the first thought would have been hindered by the law and the institutional system. It is time for the government to realise that now, in Hungary, the effects of accelerated climate change have been experienced, that radical change is needed. The first step is to establish an independent Ministry of Environment. I hope Prime Minister will hear the words of time. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, My dear fellow Member, Dear House, Thank you very much for bringing this up, and thank you always when it comes to nature conservation and environmental protection, because we can talk about a very important issue, a very important task, which concerns all of us. I am also grateful that you brought this up, because for days there has been falsely waltzing news about the nervous system of well-meaning people without any foundation, and I would like to deny it in the strongest possible terms, since there is no word about what they are trying to set out. I respect your work and the work of environmental organisations very, very much, but I also ask you and these organizations to shout wolf only when the wolf is really coming, because if we often shout wolf, so that there is absolutely no basis at all for this, when there really is trouble, no one will believe the problem. [[9.50]] What you're raising about 40 percent, let me tell you, we talked about 2.7 percent overall. All that you have said about the danger you are in and how much the issue of environmental protection in the Ministry has been devalued: let me tell you, my dear fellow Member, the 21st edition of the 21st century. The protection of nature and the environment is one of the most prominent and important issues of the century, since it is a sensitive issue for all people. But nature is not in Kossuth tér 11, but where this protection takes place on more than 300,000 hectares, where every day we have our excellent experts, who do, put on the boots, go out and look at it, then they sit in their offices and write reports on the most modern means of communication, write down the tasks and reports they need. We'll make nature protection near life, take it where it is and keep it where it is. Our excellent professionals work on ten boards, and they work hard every day. Let me just give you a few numbers. 14,000 indigenous Hungarian animals are taken care of in a protected area of 300,000 hectares. By 2014, some HUF 38 billion was implemented, and by 2020 it was able to grow to HUF 60 billion. During this work, we increased the natural state of the environment on 130,000 hectares. We receive 1.6 million visitors a year. Think of how many allies we find, how many Hungarian families we can experience, make an impression by coming and visiting how many of our allies can develop with friends of nature! More than half of the 700 ecotourism facilities operate in national park treatment. I think it's a huge job. How you don't have to shout wolf when there's no wolf, and how dangerous it is, let me tell you what we have to talk about very, very much, exactly the question of the Charna Valley railway. I have to tell you, no train will be built in the Charna Valley. On 22 November 2018, I ordered the trustee of the area, Ipoly Erdő Zrt., to withdraw the request for authorisation of the investment, and I said that there must be a guarantee that it will not happen. In addition, we also took care that the area was the State Forest Management Ltd. from its management to the property management of the Duna-Ipoly National Park Directorate, the body responsible for nature conservation management. The Csarna Valley, which is part of the Duna-Ipoly National Park, is defined as a natural zone of the national park, can only be affected for nature conservation purposes, in order to ensure the operation of natural processes and to facilitate them. The fulfilment of this requirement can be guaranteed by placing the territory in the management of national park management assets. I think we've just given you proof that nothing can happen that would result in an intervention in nature that could be harmful. I think it's all XXI. The structure of the century, which has a legitimate expectation for people to have bureaucracy reduction, so that we can use modern technical tools, I think that is exactly what we are doing, making Hungarian nature protection close to life and close to man. I think, dear fellow Member, we should help you to help the people of the national park with your authority and professional competence, to help the Hungarian environment, so that we can represent Hungarian interests decisively and effectively here in Hungary and abroad. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The current issues concerning Hungarians across the border should be reviewed for Romania and Ukraine, in particular with regard to the fact that there are serious concerns. First of all, it is important to talk about the state of the Romanian restoration process. Last week, the Romanian Supreme Court finally refused to return the nationalized buildings of the Székely Mikó College in Sepsiszentgyörgy. One of the most prestigious schools in Szeklerland was taken from the Reformed Church during the communist nationalization in 1948. After a three-time delay, the judiciary decided to reject the restoration. The statement of the judgment states that the appeal was found to be unfounded by the Supreme Court. In 2002, the Romanian State returned the real estate to the Reformed Church, but later, following a complaint, the Romanian anti-corruption prosecutors filed a criminal suit against the members of the committee assessing the return request and the property was renationalised. The church's new restoration request was rejected by the Restoration Committee in May 2016. The first court in Brasov did not accept the church's arguments in the lawsuit for annulment of the negative decision. The recent judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of a church appeal against the judgment in Brasov in December 2016 raises concerns as to the further outcome of the Romanian restoration. The situation for Ukraine is still not improving. In addition to the Ukrainian educational law, who follows the events, a submitted minority language law, which would monopolise the use of the Ukrainian language in all areas of life if adopted, as well as the citizenship law is on the agenda in Ukrainian legislation. Ukraine does this by ratifying the most important international minority protection documents as a Member State of the Council of Europe, not learning from the example of Serbia, which not only strives in practice but also in theory towards the European Union. Last week, Serbia adopted the proposal that all ethnic representatives in the provincial parliament should speak in their mother tongue, even at committee meetings. But we also need to talk about the events that have taken place in the last few days. CHAPTER XXI In the century, it was unacceptable that Russian Ildikó, the II. Ferenc Rákóczi's Rector of the Hungarian College of Transcarpathia was recently summoned by the Ukrainian Security Service to explain his speech on the occasion of the 1956 anniversary at the Budapest ceremony, in which he also spoke about the deprivation of the educational rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, namely the realistic situation. Russian Ildikó is accused of violating Article 161 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and of violating the equality of citizens on the basis of racial, ethnic... (1). The offences in question shall be punishable by imprisonment of 2 to 5 years. In addition, the anti-Hungarian campaign continues in Transcarpathia. Ukrainian-language anti-Hungarian billboards were placed in several locations of unknowns in Transcarpathia. On the billboard you can see Moskal Hennady, Governor of the Carpathian County and Rector Ildikó Russian. Police and Ukrainian security don't know who posted the billboards and doesn't take any real action. This is why the Hungarian government's consistent position is extremely important in view of the above-mentioned issues, as there will be elections in Ukraine and an increase in the situation can be expected from the Ukrainian leadership, which has become more tense by Ukrainian-Russian relations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-27-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent years, we have made it clear that Hungary is responsible for all Hungarians and stands up for Hungarian communities in every situation and does not accept any withdrawal from the rights acquired by Hungarian minorities. In the same way or as a result, in bilateral relations we strive to enforce the aspects of foreign Hungarians, and in international forums we also represent the interests of foreign Hungarians. Therefore, with regard to the situation in Ukraine, I can tell you that, in addition to standing up for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, we are concerned that the negative processes against national minorities will continue in Ukraine and in Transcarpathia, including attacks on the Hungarian community and a series of moods in the media. In recent years, this anti-Hungarian campaign has been reflected in the expansion of Hungarian intellectuals, public figures and journalists in Transcarpathia. It is unacceptable for the Transcarpathian Hungarian communities in a country flagning European Union and Euroatlantic integration in the past to be able to benefit from the 20th anniversary of the 20th anniversary of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They had to face events that reminded them of the darkest hours of the century. [[10.00]] Freedom of thought, opinion and freedom of speech is a European value, which must be respected by a democratic rule of law. With regard to the Education Act, the Hungarian position remained unchanged. The new Ukrainian education law should not restrict the existing rights of the Hungarian national minority guaranteed in the Ukrainian constitution, international treaties and other interstate treaties. We expect the Ukrainian party to ensure the conditions of the mother tongue education at all levels of education. We also observe the draft language law concerning the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, with the provisions of which the use of minority languages would be confined solely to private discussions and church ceremonies. We find it unacceptable to limit any restrictions on the right of Hungarians to use languages in Transcarpathia. Unfortunately, we also see similar trends in Romania, as we find the disenfranchisements and administrative measures affecting Hungarians in Romania incompatible with the rule of law, and we are concerned about their thickening and broadening. We were also shocked to note the judgment of the Székely Mikó College in Sepsiszentgyörgy on Thursday, according to which the Romanian Supreme Court approved the renationalization of the property previously returned to the Reformed Church. The Hungarian government is most strongly protesting against the decision that is completely lacking in European spirit, which is completely incompatible with the rule of law, and the Hungarian government continues to support the communities that have been negatively affected by the Romanian restoration process in their fight for their rightful property. We also feel it is a courageous decision that the Reformed Church District of Transylvania will turn to the European Court of Human Rights, and we can say that we will be there for them in international forums. We think the same about the excesses of police investigations involving the participants of the Hungarian Ifjak Szentmiklós summer camp in Transylvania. We believe that the Romanian party cannot expect us to deny our history, that Transylvanian Hungarians have the right to free use of symbols, and that we must defend this right together. The Hungarian Permanent Conference, the largest Hungarian forum, met on 16 November 2018. In the final statement adopted at the meeting, the member organisations stated that they would stand together in favour of Transcarpathian Hungarians in the fight for their rights and safe living conditions. International organisations have been drawn to the attention of the maladministration of the Romanian restoration process, and have also protested the decisions of the Hungarian Permanent Conference on the Székely Mikó College and the Batthyane in Gyulafehérvár. The most significant result of this year's meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference is that there is finally a consensus among the political forces of Hungary that Hungarians from abroad have the right to Hungarian citizenship, suffrage and autonomy; there is only one exception, the representatives in the benches of the Democratic Coalition disagree. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] But in addition, there is unity between the Hungarian parties and the Members of Parliament in that this is the most important goal of the Hungarian national strategy. I would therefore like to ask you to continue to support the Government's efforts in this regard, and thank you very much for the work of the Congresswoman and for bringing this matter to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-28	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-29	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the word and the opportunity. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, I have now asked for the floor in front of the agenda because today, on 27 November, is the day of Hungarian blood donors. On this occasion, I propose that here, in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament, we emphasize the important role, assistance and sacrifice of Hungarian blood donors. Dear Parliament, The help that the nation receives from the Hungarian blood donors is essential, as 400,000 blood donations are carried out annually, thanks to 250,000 blood donors. Dear Parliament, Blood is essential for major surgeries, lifesaving treatments, the production of medical blood products. Dear Parliament, Blood and blood give means life. Human blood can only be produced by a human organism. The role of the use of blood products in the healing process cannot be replaced. Many diseases or conditions associated with blood loss cannot be treated without the administration of human blood. Without the help of voluntary blood donors, more than 400,000 patients in need of blood could not be cured every year. In order for blood supply to be continuous and secure in Hungary, nearly 2,000 blood donations are required every day. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Red Cross and the National Blood Supply Service organize the domestic blood donations. Thanks to the blood donation movement, blood donors can live on 60 sites a day with help, as close as possible to their homes and workplaces. Blood donation is also a kind of voluntary screening test, because we can do a lot for our own health, help and examine ourselves. Thanks to the Hungarian Red Cross, a telephone app already warns us that it has been 56 days after blood donation and we can go back to giving blood, but it also shows where we can do it the closest to us. The number of blood donations is the lowest in the summer season, so we should pay particular attention to this. Dear Parliament, I urge the members of the political groups to give blood to anyone who can. Blood donation is a national matter. Dear Parliament, Today, on the day of Hungarian blood donors, we thank the Hungarian Red Cross, the Red Cross employees and volunteers for organizing blood donations all year round, as nearly 2,000 blood donations are needed every day. Thanks to the National Blood Supply Service and the staff of the Service for their participation in the organization of blood donations and for maintaining the stability of blood resources, thus preventing blood shortage. Dear Parliament, Here, in front of the House, I would like to thank the more than 250 000 blood donors for their personal help in life and healing. We ask the Government of Hungary to grant all support to blood donors. Blood donation is a national matter, respect for Hungarian blood donors! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-30	I thank the Member for his speech. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári rises to speak.]] Dear Parliament, [[To the representatives standing between the benches:]] Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State to reply, I ask you, with all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats quietly, and once again, please take your seats. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is extremely important, because indeed, the Member spoke of life as a vital issue when he talked about giving blood. Every society has a kind of impression that there are people who give their own blood for their well-known loved ones, when they donate blood with controlled blood donations, or that they only help people who are not known, people they never meet, people they don't expect to thank, they just think they're members of a community, and it's an important value for them from the point of view of humanity, to help others unknowingly, voluntarily, without any consideration. We thank them for doing this day after day, week after week, year after year. In Hungary, the National Blood Service organizes blood donations, provides blood supply, monitors what supplies are available, and when campaigns are needed separately, if interventions or major accidents require more blood in case of multiple operations. Thank you to the average of 1600-1800 volunteers who are leaving today today, although today there may be a little more, but on average 1600-1800 are in the blood donor centers and are giving blood. The Blood Supply Service strives to work with as many people as possible and to bring the possibility of giving blood to people as close as possible, so it is possible to give blood every day at 60-70 locations across the country, so that everyone can choose a location relatively closer to their home and workplace. Obviously, the recruitment activities of the Blood Supply Service are also important, as the 400,000 units of blood required each year require a lot of campaigns and a lot of awareness-raising. We can say that Hungary, the Hungarian blood donors, is far above the European average, as the number of blood donations per capita is fortunately above the European average in Hungary, and we thank everyone. [[10.10]] This means that the value of wanting to help, the value of altruism in Hungary is even greater and wider than in other Western European countries. It is important to take these values into account, and not only to follow the unconditional imitation of others, but also to take into account and recognise our own values, the volunteering of our own people, and the sacrifice of others. It is the National Blood Supply Service that finances the activities of the Hungarian Red Cross, mentioned by the representative, on the basis of the relevant health minister's decree, how human blood can be collected, tested, processed, stored, distributed and how to meet the technical requirements. One of the most important tasks here is obviously the involvement of young people, the promotion of blood donation among young people, as blood donation also has a dandruff, and like many other dandruffs, this shows narrowing down, and in Hungarian, young people give less blood than older people, but obviously this situation can be changed if proper campaigns are launched. Of course, we welcome everyone's contribution to this. This year, the National Blood Service set itself the goal of showing itself in the graduating class of every high school and, within the framework of a class teacher's class, of telling why it is important to give blood, disperse the delusions that may exist and encourage young people to donate blood, and since young people can now be reached most via online channels, Internet advertising, Facebook appearance is particularly important for the Blood Supply Service. Not only blood donor campaigns, not only gifts, but now such facebook and online appearances help as many people as possible in the future generation who donate blood not only through controlled blood donation, but also through voluntary donations for the benefit of anyone. Of course, the Blood Supply Service is constantly monitoring the blood supply. Obviously, deadlines are narrower here than in other cases, so it is important to preserve the stability of Hungarian blood resources. The Member also pointed out that it is mainly the summer months where campaigns are needed separately that people should be even more intensively called to the attention of the people, for reasons related to freedom, and for other reasons, to come and give blood. Nevertheless, blood stock management in Hungary is completely balanced. Fortunately, there are people who give their own blood unknown to others. We must say that voluntary blood donation is both for healthy personality development for young people and, on the other hand, not only saving lives, but also an important symbol of our national belongings. Today and every other day, we thank everyone who gives blood once or several times a year, and helps other people's lives and health to preserve and save. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. It's 10:13 p.m., and we start our work with decisions at exactly 10:15 p.m. I'm gonna take a break for 10:00 and 15 minutes. I would ask my fellow Members to spend these two minutes together in this Chamber. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want to!]] Please don't leave the meeting room so we can get back to work. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Following a series of discussions between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on the publication of the Treaty on State Borders (T/3356). Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3356. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 145 votes in favour, no votes against, with 22 abstentions. It follows that T/3357 on the publication of the Agreement on mutual assistance in civil matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3357. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 172 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/3660 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of country-by-country reports follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3660. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 172 unanimous votes in favour. It follows from the publication in Geneva of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 concerning the international carriage of goods by TIR certificate T/3363. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3363. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 173 unanimous votes in favour. The 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas follows. T/3375 on the amendment of law and related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3375/6. T/3375/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 is proposed by Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 118 against and 22 abstentions. [[10.20]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3375/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 33 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/3375/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 33 against and 22 abstentions. The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations follows. T/3292 amending Act T/3292 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3292/11. T/3292/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Dialogue Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 6, the Group of the LMP Group No 2 and Jobbik Group No 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. In Amendment 2, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Szávay put forward the same content in Amendment 5. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that their adoption excludes Amendment 6 which has also been requested for reservation. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 5. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 115 against and 23 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 118 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3292/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 34 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3292/15. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 38 against and 20 abstentions. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. T/3374. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3374/8. T/3374/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3374/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 35 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3374/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 34 against and 24 abstentions. Following the turn of the 2019 year II. H/3355 on the declaration of the Memorial Year of Ferenc Rákóczi. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/3355. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 178 unanimous votes in favour. The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. Act and Act XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/3053 on the amendment of Act T/3053 relating to over-service Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3053. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. T/2938 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2938/5. and the summary report by T/2938/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2938/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes to seven, with 51 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2938/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes to six, with 52 abstentions. Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. T/1671. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[10.30]] T/1671/32. T/1671/33. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/1671/32. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1671/34. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/2928 on the amendment of certain employment laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2928/5. T/2928/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2928/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 16 against and 42 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2928/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes to 14, with 43 abstentions. The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. T/3252 on the amendment of Act T/3252 Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3252. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 150 votes in favour, no votes against, with 28 abstentions. Next up is the 2010 CXXX on legislation. T/2939 on the amendment of Act T/2939 relating to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2939/8. and the summary report is T/2939/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2939/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 28 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2939/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 34 against and 24 abstentions. Next up is T/2936 on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of justice. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2936/6. T/2936/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by Gábor Staudt and Andrea Varga-Damm. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 117 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2936/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, no votes against, with 49 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/2936/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 120 votes in favour, no votes against, with 58 abstentions. The T/2940 on the education register follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/2940/7. T2940/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2940/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 149 votes to 2 with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/2940/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 151 votes to 10, with 18 abstentions. It follows that T/3294 on the regulation of higher education and on the amendment of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3294/6. T/3294/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Timea Szabó and Tamás Melár. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/3294/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 32 abstentions. [[10.40]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/3294.9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 158 votes in favour, no votes against, with 21 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would remind you that these negotiations have already been held by the Parliament. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/1492 on the measures arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union by Péter Ungár, LMP, Member. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 57 votes in favour, 120 against and two abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Mr Krisztina Hohn, LMP, Member of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3rd December 1993 on social management and social benefits. T/1494. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "Szabó Timea, Dialogue, Representative" H/1936. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 57 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Bence Tordai, Dialogue, Representative, T/3043 on the amendment of Act I of 2012 on the Code of Work in order to ban the six-day working weeks. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 120 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, T/1504 on the increase of the family allowance and the introduction of a monthly special allowance for starting school in order to restore democracy. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will include the Z. Carpathian by Dániel, Jobbik, Member, CXIII of 1996 on the housing savings banks. T/2896. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 55 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will include Mirkóczki Ádám and Z. Kárpát, by Daniel, Jobbik, Members, H/3011. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 53 votes in favour, 119 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Break: 10.45 10.49]]
u2018-11-27-33	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. [[It's ringing.]] Thank you for your understanding, thank you for taking your place, thank you for opening the next agenda. I would ask my fellow rapporteur to take his place. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, Once they've taken their positions, we'll begin our work. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain agri-regulation laws until closure. The government referral is T/3630. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-27-34	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Agriculture has collected and integrated into a package the requirements for the amendment of laws which, by reason of their short scope or due to their technical content, do not require the Parliament to deal with them separately, but, given their entry into force, their adoption is justified even in the autumn session of 2018. As a result, the paper on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation has been presented to this House, in which the government proposes to amend 16 laws. I would just like to highlight the most important of the changing legislation, not taking up their time with technical details. The 2004 amendment of the Nature Protection Act introduced the concept of nature park, and the operation of the national natural parks developed over the next 14 years, which highlighted the shortcomings of the definition. Based on practical experience, the new definition contained in the bill reflects the most important principles of natural park operation in Hungarian practice. It is important to point out that, in the event of a ministerial contribution to the use of the natural park name, no new protected natural area is created, and that clarification of the provisions giving rise to misunderstanding has also become necessary. With regard to the provision of ownership cards, on the one hand, with the subject-matter exemption of budgetary bodies, internal financial bureaucracy may be reduced and, on the other hand, by virtue of its subject matter, the consultation of a copy of the deed will be free of charge if it is requested by an infringement authority outside the investigating authority and the national security service in order to carry out its tasks. The following topic deals with the amendment of the Law on the Chamber of Hunters, which states that the compensation paid by the Chamber in its proceedings concerning the issue and enforcement of the hunting ticket and the issue of the hunting licence is not an administrative service fee, because it is paid not for official proceedings, but for the acquisition of the right to dispose of the state-owned game. This revenue may be used by the Chamber to pay for the tasks received from the State and to cover other operating costs. In land office procedures, a request for the cancellation of a pledge previously registered on a property may be submitted after the registration of an application for registration of the right to a given immovable property. In such cases, it is of course in the interest of the customers that the pledges that appear as a burden are deleted from the property register as soon as possible. At present, this is only possible if all stakeholders contribute to the so-called exchange of rankings to ensure extraordinarily high levels, which in practice burden applicants with undue costs and inconvenience. The proposal aims to ensure that the cancellation of the pledge can be transferred through the real estate register regardless of the ranking of the submissions. On food chain security: the state's mission is to improve food chain security, thereby protecting human health and society. With this objective in mind, the Law on Food Chain and Official Surveillance will be amended in the framework of the bill. The greatest threat today is the abuse of food chain products, counterfeiting and tax evasion. This food crime endangers the health of consumers, puts honest entrepreneurs at a disadvantage and causes a loss of income for the state. Constraints on food counterfeiting and fraud will be introduced. Among other things, liability rules are tightened up as part of some of the tasks. In the case of a counterfeit or counterfeit product, the manufacturer may also be responsible for the first placing on the market of non-domestically produced products, as well as for any other distributor, if he should have noticed the error in good faith. The following is the idea: the power of the public to act as an effective tool to combat abuse is strengthened by the extension of the publication. And thirdly, but not least: food police are entitled to effective measures such as certification, clothing, package screening, vehicle detention, screening, the use of handcuffs in the event of defyance, and even production. The issue of animal health. The epidemics of animals sweeping all over Europe in recent years make it necessary to amend the rules of the disease control measures. Infectious animal diseases with serious national economic consequences have been a serious infection in recent years, a serious epidemic has swept through Hungary in relation to avian influenza, and today we are sensitive to the possible spread of African swine fever, and there is serious work to be done in the area of control and localisation of African swine fever, and in order to effectively combat these infections, it is necessary to organise quickly, immediately deployable personnel with special knowledge and tools, which can immediately implement the necessary measures in any part of the country. Diseases that cross district and county boundaries require uniform and effective measures, such as the assessment of the number of susceptible animals, their geographical location and the uniform implementation of certain animal epidemic measures. Improving competitiveness and reducing administration are our next topic, in order to further expand the range of products and activities in which registration is sufficient instead of a cumbersome, possibly prolonged authorisation procedure. It is a customer-friendly measure to defer payment of a fine or to allow payment of a fine in instalments. IT developments, tools to reduce administration and competitiveness are effective elements of the database of legal food operators and facilitate better performance of official control functions. Fine-tuning of the food chain monitoring information system is one of the most important amendments to this proposal. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The FELIR shall include all databases operated by the Authority for the management of food chain surveillance. FELIR is, however, not only a collection concept over databases in the field but also a framework for uniform information management. At the same time, the FELIR not only collects data on the food chain but is also intended to analyse data on the food chain, which aims at both effective monitoring and the promotion of strategic decision-making. The amendments to the FELIR shall include the transfer of data in respect of food chain monitoring data, the clarification of access to each register and data circle, and the provision of access to data by other authorities and institutions to ensure effective food chain monitoring. [[11.00]] It's about market protection. In order to protect the domestic market and to increase exports of quality food, it is necessary to establish a State rating system guaranteed by the Authority. The bill intends to contribute to this by controlling rating systems, extending the rating system to activities, further expanding the state monitoring system, in order to reduce the number of controls. In addition, the amendment of the Food Chain Act also includes additional provisions necessary to fulfil the obligation arising from our membership of the EU, such as clarification of the concept of novel food, the extension of provisions on organic production and the technical supervision of plant protection machinery. I would like to share some thoughts with you on our next issue, the amendment of the forest law. Among the amendments to the forest law, the extension of the deadline for the exit of so-called contracts concluded decades earlier at the end of this year by a further one and a half year should be highlighted, given the need to give the forest owner a sufficient period of preparation for the conclusion of the new contracts covering some 200,000 hectares. In addition, the rules on the control of timber trade from illegal logging will be clarified and the use of illegally harvested timber, which will therefore not be traded, should be allowed for public interest purposes, by handing over to municipalities, public benefit organisations and churches. There are also some thoughts about mountain communities. The local community organization is supplemented by the wine region level, which takes its place between the wine-growing and national organisations. Those wine-region advice shall be established by 31 May 2019 with the exception of the wine-growing region of Tokaj, which is a separate wine region. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the amendment of the Fish Management Act. The government adopted the National Fisheries and Fisheries Strategy and the National Fishing Network Programme. In the context of the implementation of this, the Hungarian National Fishing Association, which provides national representation and coordination of anglers and fishing associations, carries out a number of public tasks from the State, to which the fees for issuing the fishing ticket and the catch logbook are to be released. In order to ensure the long-term maintenance of investments, investments and farming, the holder of a lease in a given water area should be entitled to a pre-emptive right if the State intends to alienate ownership of the land which is classified as non-agricultural land. Provisions are also included in the bill. Dear House, Dear Parliament, As the honourable Members and gentlemen have seen from what they have said, this bill is very diverse and covers a wide range of areas of expertise, but its provisions can be considered to be of a technical nature, and do not concern a politically significant issue other than those mentioned. Accordingly, I would ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support the adoption of the bill with their contributions, their professional proposals and their vote later on. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-35	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Balázs Győrffy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-36	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/3630 before you on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation. Bill No 16 proposes to amend 16 laws, as the Secretary of State has said. The aim of the package of proposals is essentially to make technical amendments made by the law-abiding parties to the duties of the Agricultural Ministry and, on the basis of the experience of recent years, to ensure regulatory consistency with other laws. The aim of the package of proposals is also to promote uniform application of the law and to better fulfil public tasks. The amendments to the laws contained in the bill are justified by the professional experience and the changes in legislation that have taken place in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen, In agreement with what has been said, I would not like to repeat Mr State Secretary, so I would like to briefly mention some technical amendments and some helpful amendments to simplify the work of working life. First, Annex XVIII of 2004 on wine growing and wine management In its amendment to Act No 26, it is noted that the economic files must contain the supplier's food chain monitoring information identification number or, as many of us know, the FELIR identifier. XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry As regards the law, the definition of the timber trade chain has not yet been defined as a necessary part of the transport, which is, as appropriate, part of the timber production course. This will now be clarified. In order to effectively detect illegal logging and the sale of timber that harms customers, the forestry authority needs to know the data of the vehicles used for transport. As a result of e-government developments, many co-governments are now able to provide direct access to their databases in the event of appropriate legal authorisation. The addition creates this access option. Direct access is simpler, cheaper for both the applicant and the requested authority and accelerates the conduct of the administrative procedure. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the extension of the deadline for the discharge of contracts at the end of this year, including for the Chamber initiative, with the amendment to the forest law. Based on the practical experience of recent years, the 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums will be amended. Law. I would like to highlight two major amendments here. It is important that national values which cannot be linked to settlement, county, but which are of national importance, can be put forward by the proposers to a sectoral depository, so that the proposal makes it mandatory for ministries to operate sectoral depositories. It is also important for the Hungaricum Commission to decide whether to amend the descriptive text of the values already recorded, to combine or even delete certain values under the same heading. The 2012 LXVI on surveying and mapping activities is also modified. Law. If the surveyor does not indicate the base point during a plot formation or other survey work, but with an independent change plan, then, since this is part of the state's data assets, we recommend that it be subject to a fee exemption. This will, in our view, be an incentive to register as many basic points as possible. The purpose of the amendment is to regulate and ensure the transfer of cadastral coverage data produced from the State Property Register database for the use of the Hungarian Treasury in the integrated management and control system. CXX of 2012 on the activities of persons carrying out certain police duties and amending certain laws to ensure the prevention of school evasion. Two brief clarifications can be found in the amendment of the Act. For the sake of clarity, it is stated that, for the purposes of the Law, it is necessary to refer to all areas of fish management, fish ponds and shores in its area of operation as regards official fish keepers. As a result of changes in the fish management sector, it has become timely to change the name of the fishing guard to official fish keeper. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing the content of the bill, we can safely say that the amendments are indeed intended to provide a more effective public service and to enforce useful and meaningful professional experience. So please support the T/3630 in front of you. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2018-11-27-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. We'll wait for Congressman to put the microphone on, and time will start from there. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, And not least, Mr. Sándor Farkas State Secretary. It is clear that the Agricultural Ministry is working: we have 16 legislative amendments before us, before this House. It has not been easy to study them, but it must be acknowledged that most of them are technical amendments, and I agree with Mr State Secretary that they are rarely politically significant, professional proposals. Indeed, I too wish to go along and not be too long, but I would like to mention that these proposals are, in most cases, bureaucratic and also satisfactory amendments to the European Union's expectations. Of course, most of these are also eligible for us. It is important to remember the issue of market protection and quality protection. The technical amendment of the Hungaricum Act also contains mainly clarifications, but based on the experience of recent years, it can be stated that there are even more possibilities in this area, and that further public management activities are needed in this area. Yes, there is also an important clarification in the area of fish farming that the areas of operation of the fish guard have also been defined. You can also see in my constituency how sacrificed these people are in their work, they really are in the field, and it is important that it is clear to everyone where and under what conditions they can do their job. Here, by the way, is largely the amendment which builds on the experience of recent years in the fisheries law. Fishing gear better defines the status of fishing gear for catching fish, thus facilitating more effective action against poaching. I think that this is also important, and we have made a lot of progress in this area in recent years, but there are still those who use such naughty, immoral and unjust means to catch fish from our living waters. Food security is a serious challenge today, and it really needs to be addressed. It is also a welcome thing to appear in this bill. I would also like to mention a few sentences on forestry. We have many state-owned forests, but there are also many privately owned forests in Hungary. This is also of great value, but most of these forests are undivided common property, although I know that the Agricultural Ministry, when quoted in quotes, is declaring war on the undivided community, and I think that this is a very good way to go. I hope that, in terms of forests and there may be even bigger messes, there are tens of acres of forest in Somogy, I can tell you that there are 92 owners of this, and the question of forest use is unsolved. Obviously, so many owners find it very difficult to reach an agreement, and there are very few of them with adequate professional qualifications. But to remain on the subject as requested by the Secretary of State: I would now like to talk about what this amendment concerns, namely that the official control of wood and timber products is being tightened up, transport and distribution are also subject to stricter documentation. This is also a good thing and something to support, because illegal logging is still important to date, or to put it more clearly, is the stealing of trees, and this is extremely insane for forest owners. And it should also be mentioned that it is okay to have this legislation, but it would be a pleasure if the staff were also available, which can implement and enforce these regulations with these people, because now that the weather has gone cold at the end of November, these acts typically occur in bulk. And we also hope that the police will take these violations to heart and that they will be able to act more effectively to prevent or deter. I'd like to keep going. It is welcome that the total amount of the prize for the issuing of the hunting ticket and the hunting licence will now be entitled to the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. This is also necessary because it is justified for the tasks taken over from the State to be paid in return. It is also to be welcomed that the hunting ticket exhibition, as well as the annual one, must be validated each year... that their exhibition will be free of administrative service fees in the future. Finally, a few thoughts and comments on the very important sector, the vine and wine sector. This is where the Minister of State mentioned the establishment of the wine-region councils, and it is necessary to set this up by 13 May 2019. Here the wine section will be separated. This is worth talking about because it is possible to see from the autumn experiences at the end of the summer that in many cases viticultures and wine producers were against it. This increased during the buying-in of grapes and the buying-in of grapes. Unfortunately, in some regions the grapes were purchased at a very depressed price, many farmers here suspect the winemakers' cartel. Obviously, there are many other factors, demand and supply, which influence the development of prices. But there is no doubt, and if the National Council of the Mountain Communities, as well as the councils of the Mountains, and their role are mentioned further, the vineyards and winemakers would like to see that, in addition to the fact that, quite rightly, these professional organisations will now carry out significantly more tasks in the future with this amendment, but that these tasks should also be carried out in order to protect the interests of winemakers and vineyards. So let interest protection play a more important role, and then perhaps in the future it would be possible to prevent the low buying-in prices and the resulting -- I would add, obviously, not everyone is affected, because in general the production volume exceeded the previous average quantity of crops, and this compensated for a certain income, but from this general opinion, I think it is a mistake to filter it out. Many people have produced virtually deficit this year, and many people are thinking mainly about smaller ones, and I am saying that if this will not cause loss of income but loss, they will stop doing so. [[11.20]] I believe that this will encourage a responsible thinking government and a responsible thinker of the Agricultural Ministry to analyse the situation that has now emerged and, if possible, to do everything together with the National Council of the Mountains, as well as with the councils of the Mountains that represent the profession, and also with the advice of the later established wine region, so that farmers can manage. Thank you very much for the opportunity to comment. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Both Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members before me have analysed in detail the changes in this package of laws, and I do not wish to do so, since everyone knows which laws this package intends to amend. All I am saying to this is that the situation of Hungarian agriculture is a key issue in the national economy, and we must do everything we can to put people living in agriculture in a better position, either directly or indirectly, so that it is safe food and so on. On the part of the KDNP, we fully support this bill, and I ask my fellow Members to support you. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. I'll wait for you to put the microphone on, because you were just sitting up here next to me, and you had to go down. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Several agricultural proposals are being discussed by the Parliament today. Let me give you a positive point right now: in the government's proposal, we are discussing this salad law concerning 16 laws. I think this is correct because, obviously, in accordance with the legislative law, the preliminary negotiations would then take place properly, or I think that this could have happened, at least the material, which, in view of most of the elements of the proposal for a truly extensive amendment, was probably the case. As you said, this proposal contains a lot of technical proposals. A very large part of these can otherwise be supported. I think some of these things have been said, so I wouldn't go over them again. Obviously, part of it comes from an EU obligation, in part, whether it is the amendment of the law on vine cultivation, the food chain and official supervision, or the issue raised by Ádám Steinmetz in relation to forestry; this is obviously okay. The question has always been, and it has been, a big debate yesterday, on how to vote clearly on such an amendment for even an opposition representative. There are 16 laws that are being amended, and at one or two points there are issues that may question the adoption of the whole, if any, and then, of course, yesterday, for example, I think, on an immediate question or perhaps on an interpellation, there was a debate about this in other, otherwise forward-looking proposals, let us say, if not, if such a salad law is eventually not supported by the faction, then you criticized it, because you can say that the government's forward-looking proposals are not supported by the opposition either. Of these 16 laws, I have also managed to find one that raises question marks. Let me say two of those. I think it's an important question. One of the things that many people have already talked about is that the procedure for issuing a hunting permit will be free of charge. Obviously, this is a question that will be popular among hunters. But it must also be said that while the game belongs to the state, the other prizes collected in connection with the hunt will now belong to the hunting chamber. My question is why, in particular, this is justified, because I do not think that even the compensation for the authorisation tasks received from the State necessarily justifies this issue. In fact, I know a lot of hunters in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, who are very decent in this profession, or very serious hobby, and are very decent in treating the forest, the wild, very much appreciated by their activities. But it can mean their support that it is absolutely necessary to support the hunting chamber, or to provide the hunting chamber with benefits that cannot be constantly justified, economic benefits that, given that the game belongs to the state, thus indirectly to all Hungarians who live in this country... so that they are contradictory to me, and they certainly make me wonder about the final decision on the entire proposal. Another such question, which, if you consider the previous one a kind of lex Semyen, can be considered as lex Áder, which, say, concerns anglers. It will be free to extract water from natural water for the operation of a pond. Here it is literally proposed that the removal of water necessary for ecological purposes for the operation of a fish pond does not constitute the use of agricultural water under the Water Management Act. There is no reasonable reason for this, it can allow irresponsible exploitation of natural goods, while the fish pond is a place for farming. State fishing rights may be transferred to the fishing association by appointment by the Minister, which we believe may be opaque and undemocratic. I would note here only in parentheses that, while irresponsible exploitation of natural goods may arise here, let us say, in another case, let us say, after a long hovering of wells or an extended moratorium, the question of what amazing sums will have to be paid to them as the sword of Damokles over hundreds of thousands of Hungarians in connection with the authorisation of a well to satisfy their domestic water demand. I think that, if, for example, it is possible to be free of charge in connection with the hunting permit procedure and, by the way, to support fish farming of this size, I think that the authorisation procedure for the otherwise difficult number of small well owners should also be free of charge for the Hungarian State. That's how it would be round. That's what we need to see a presentation about. If we were to see these salad laws, we might have put this in here. I note that, together with several fellow Members from MSZP, the well tax is now saying this in a time sign and, in general, in connection with the well situation, we have lived with a motion before the National Assembly, and I hope that the decision to include this series of objects can still take place before the commission at this session, and we can negotiate that this should indeed be the case, and that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians should not be threatened by an unjustified cost of more than 100 thousand forints for the approval of their wells. One word, like a hundred: there are a lot of forward-looking proposals, really a lot of technical ones. I think that there will be a greater debate on the next two agricultural laws, so this is not where the biggest debate will be, and I am putting this forward. But by the way, these two moments are typically a question of, say, feeling sympathy, respect for the hunting society or the fishing society, whether they should also provide economic benefits to certain organisations or, where appropriate, a fish pond that is the owner of the fish farming site. I don't think that's true. We are talking about the property of ten million Hungarians when we talk about these natural goods, and we are talking about a lot of nature conservation aspects. So in light of these, we will establish our final position on the 16 legislative lettuce law in the light of the general debate, the detailed debate and possible amendments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[11.30]]
u2018-11-27-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-44	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here we have a 53-page bill to amend certain agricultural legislation. General justification of the proposal, which can be found on the National Assembly's website, is as follows:. The amendments to the laws contained in the bill are justified by professional experience and changes in the legislation that have taken place in the meantime. Empty content. I only wanted to read this because, obviously, it is a very extensive and in many cases, as the Secretary of State has mentioned, it is a technical amendment, so sometimes the spelling has been overlooked, and the spelling and the writing of the contents have been overlooked. Maybe that's why I can say that less is a little more. It is a huge amendment and addition to 16 laws, and, as my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz has already mentioned, it is clear from the explanations and from the speeches that the aim is some kind of bureaucracy reduction, some kind of transformation, some sort of facilitation. At the same time, we see that, as my fellow Members have said in the bill, there are forward-looking steps, there are forward-looking proposals, while the government resolves this bureaucracy reduction in other areas simply by reducing the fundamental freedom of certain government officials by kicking people out of the Agricultural Ministry by simply putting people on the streets, according to the news, through the government window around 10:00 a.m. on 6 November. The reduction of bureaucracy is an extremely important thing, and we agree with that, but it should be noted that those professionals who worked in the Agricultural Ministry and here I am not referring to certain politicians, but to professionals who worked in the Ministry and work in the Ministry, today they are enforcing the laws you have made, and that if they are more regulatory than justified, the system will not be called an efficient, cost-effective, democratic, party-neutral public administration, the system will overwhelm the workers in it. In addition, in these proposals, I say once again, I think that Mr Varga has very well formulated the point, there are forward-looking proposals to support, but what we see is that he is not really going in the direction of creating that kind of ease in public administration, in cutting red tape. The issue of numbers is not dealt with by the bill itself, but it must be addressed, because if we want to reduce bureaucratic burdens, if we want to reduce administrative bureaucracy overall, then obviously it is not the solution to kick people out of the Agricultural Ministry without reason, especially not, for example, as I mentioned, from the nature conservation area, and for the first time when I saw them amending the law on nature protection, I thought that finally, in case it is written that it is necessary to set up the independent Ministry of Environment. Even János Áder, a great friend of environmental protection, has failed to achieve this in recent years. It's a shame that this area, it becomes repressed within the agricultural purse, and there is no independent Ministry of Environment. I regret that there are no LMP lead speakers, because they are really the ones who have been very concerned with this, but allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to specifically draw attention to the fact that, while agricultural farming is extremely important, we see that nature conservation and, as a result of the firings, will become increasingly less important, and this will determine our future. I am sure that there are a lot of additions, amendments to the bill that are naturally necessary to ensure the effective functioning of the public administration. Which is exactly why I'm asking you, 130. In Section 2 of the Guidelines on forest protection and forestry, Section XXXVII of 2009 on forest protection and forest management. LVI 2017 on the amendment of Laws and Other Related Laws. Act 1 also amended by the forestry administrative information and administration system... 130. §, did you find it, Mr. Secretary? [[Sándor Farkas: Yes.]] Yeah. The original deadline was therefore 1 January 2019 and will be amended to 1 January 2022. We also see that all the notification obligations relating to the holding and transport of pigs should be fulfilled by the keeper by electronic means to the food chain monitoring body, and we also see that there is a date on 1 January 2019 for introducing this electronic notification obligation, which would simplify bureaucracy, and we also see that there is a year later entry into force. This is particularly important in view of what you have said about the fact that agriculture has lived through avian influenza in Hungary, and now in Romania, African swine fever has been and has been, and has reached Hungary, so it is very, very important that electronic delivery in this area can be achieved as much as possible, because it is very, very fast. What we see in these two areas, i.e. the forest administration information and administration system, and the electronic notification to food chain monitoring, is that there is a slippage in the electronic system. I do not know what the reason is, maybe the IT background has not been completed, but I think that if we really want effective bureaucracy, it is an essential condition for these IT backgrounds to be built as quickly as possible, so I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-45	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then the ordinary representatives will take part in the speeches. Congressman Sándor Fazekas asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-46	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I think it is very useful that the Ministry of Agriculture has put forward a proposal involving this complex bill and legislative amendments, as there are a number of problems that need to be addressed in the application of the law in recent years that are contained here in the material before us. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] An important area of the proposal is covered by the law on general rules for the protection of nature, the 1996 LIII Act. amendment of the law. I would like to draw attention here to the section on nature parks, 3-4. These are contained in Section 5. It is well known that a number of new natural parks have been established in Hungary in recent years, there are a total of 12, so these are areas where local governments, social organisations, the population, public organisations, think about nature conservation measures, measures to enable nature to travel in a region, and investments are taking place, so there is a regulatory area that deserves our attention, so it is welcome that the clarification of the concepts, the procedure, will be included in the legislative proposal. In recent years, the Hungarian state has spent tens of billions of forints on forestry and tourism related welfare facilities, tourist houses, tourist routes, visitor centers, resting places, and it is also important that these investments take place in a given landscape, providing a unified tourism service, so that tourists and Hungarian people can spend their free time in a cultural and well-groomed environment. It is certainly useful that the regulation concerns these areas. I would also like to highlight another area: this is the legislation on Hungaricums, the 2012 XXX on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums. amendment of the law. It is noteworthy that, thanks to the successful work of the Hungaricum Committee, the Hungaricum Movement local governments and value protectors, the Parliament has adopted the Hungaricum Act without voting against it, which has proved its right to exist, since in recent years the Hungaricum Commission, the Hungaricum Movement, has been able to collect a circle of values, to collect, define, protect, and defend the high performances of Hungarians that form part of the national identity, which we can be proud of, and which deserve protection, that this protection should also appear from the legislative side in the clarification of concepts, in amendments corresponding to practical experience. [[11.40]] I would particularly like to highlight the various deposit boxes, local and county deposit boxes, as here the work of thousands of activists, value keepers, artists and local folk artists has been collected, traditions have been collected. Today, these are particularly categories of local identity awareness that enhances identity in small settlements, which is why it is important to pay particular attention to these depositories and to sector depositories, since in many settlements there is a value that could be a hungaricum. At the same time, they may also appear in other municipalities, whether they are food or folk customs, they can be brought up to the level of a sectoral depository if they are available and ready to receive. Obviously, all of our values can't be Hungaricum at the same time. That is why it is important that this area is given constant attention and care. By the way, it can be seen that the circle of Hungaricums is practically round, so in the coming years some new Hungaricums can still be expected, or a value that exists, but it can be included in this circle. I agree with Mr Ádám Steinmetz that this is a bureaucratic legislation. I support all these things on the part of the government. A great effort in today's complicated world is to simplify and reduce official work. I would also like to add to Mr President's comment that, obviously, in Hungaricums, we also need state management, but we also need to have a living, active community in addition to individual values. So this cannot be replaced by public attention, whether it is a product or a spiritual treasure, there must be a community that feels it and on which state aid can be built. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Farkas, as rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Sándor Farkas: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-48	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their thoughts and comments; to my fellow Member, Mr Balázs Győrffy, for the additions that I did not quite mention, he added to those laws, with those issues that I could say to you. I thank my fellow Member very much for this. I thank my better fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, for his support in advance, as he has already said in connection with the law. We fully agree that a certain part of this law, some parts, is also about cutting red tape to some extent. I also welcome some of the ideas outlined here in fish management and fisheries management, and not least on issues which concern the scope of undivided joint ownership of forestry. This is indeed not part of this law, but it is expected that the next one, if not this year, but in the first months of the following year we would also like to settle the issue of undivided joint ownership, and in this, I think we fully agree. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, we can also talk about the comments, including thanks to my fellow Member, László Földi, for his statement of support from KDNP, my fellow Member, László Varga, for his prior confidence. I understand your point. [[Speaking to his fellow Members, Dr. László Varga:]] I don't know, for a moment, if you'll listen, Congressman, forgive me, I don't want to address you, but if I'm talking to you, at least... we've been trying to make eye contact. I thank you for your comment, and it is true, that it is not easy to decide on 16 laws. I've been an opposition representative for eight years, and I know this world, but I think that we should get past it, and sometimes it wouldn't hurt to have a little more confidence in each other. I am asking this in this case because it is a law, which is more of a professional law, so it would be good to see an example in which we might be able to overcome it. But I only remembered that as a private person. I understand your concerns about the fishing and hunting law, but I would like to mention one thing here. So the well law, if you put it that way, is not part of this law. It is expected to come before us in the presentation of the BM, with the cooperation of the Agricultural Ministry, if I can put it this way and with its opinion, and I trust that an advanced self at least that is what I took out of his words in good faith, that it may be much easier and much easier to resolve this well issue. I trust that it will, and it may be possible to reach a common position with you. I would very much appreciate it if we could get this far on this issue. I thank Mrs Ágnes Vadai for her reference to the spelling rules, and I am sure that it will be possible to correct that. The reduction of bureaucracy, however, has already been addressed in a few thoughts, but actually, the specific reduction of bureaucracy is not part of this law, and the number of people I would say to the ministries is not part of this law. I understand your concern, Congresswoman, your thoughts in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, but I would like to say that if you were so afraid of us and would like less bureaucracy, then don't take this the wrong way, but I see your written questions very often, which is also a serious one for us, I could say that it creates bureaucracy. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not bureaucracy, that's your control!]] That they should be answered several times a week in several ways. Thank you for your questions, your written questions, of course we will answer that. But you are one of the most active opposition politicians to ask such questions. Thank you very much for that, but I think that would also contribute to perhaps giving less work as a plus. I would also like to thank Minister Fazekas for his suggestions on nature conservation, on Hungaricums and on local depositories. I believe that these issues, whether the Hungaricum or the local depositor, still contain a number of new opportunities that I may not yet say we are not thinking about, but some refining, some clarification is certainly still necessary. In the field of nature conservation, nature parks and the preservation of our natural values are an important task, and I believe that this law also provides for the safety and long-term operation of this. Thank you very much, Mr President, so much I wanted to respond to the thoughts put forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Jakab wishes to address the T/3630, on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation, on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the marketing of agricultural and forestry land and T/3636 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. During the general debate on legislative proposals No. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that Vice-President István Jakab will be able to lead the meeting if necessary during the further discussion of the proposals. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to the circulation of agricultural and forestry land until closure. The presentation submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font and István Jakab T/3636. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to our colleague Balázs Győrffy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-50	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, A few months ago, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy presented its multi-annual development programme package, in which we made concrete proposals to create a stable and competitive ownership structure, to make forms of operation transparent, to encourage voluntary cooperation, to speed up modernisation, to improve crop and income security and to improve the whole food chain. [[11.50]] In order to achieve the objectives set out in the programme, we have prepared two legislative proposals. One package of proposals relates to the regulation of the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. The issue of land use is of national political importance. After the end of the ten-year moratorium granted on the accession of our country to the EU, new land traffic regulations entered into force. With regard to the implementation of the new provisions, the Chamber has gained a number of practical experience over the past four years. Using these, we see the time to fine-tune the earth's traffic law. The bill amends the following laws concerning the circulation of land: CXXII of 2013 on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. Act and the 2013 CCXII on certain provisions and transitional rules relating to this Act. Act LXXXVII of 2010 on the so-called "Soft Law" and on the National Earth Fund. Law. On the basis of the proposal, the rules on land committees will be amended. The new Land Traffic Act, which entered into force in 2014, was originally intended to give an opinion on land sales to so-called local land committees. In view of the fact that these have not been developed, their task will be carried out by NAK's territorial organs. More than 12,000 members of the Committee on Agricultural Economy participate in the procedure. Since 2014, the municipal agricultural committees and the county presidencies of NAK have delivered opinions on 50-70,000 land sales annually. The aim of the proposed legislative amendment is to strengthen the role of NAK and thus local farmers in the control of land traffic, thereby helping to achieve the objectives of land policy and to keep the land in Hungarian hands. At present, objections to the position of the regional bodies of the NAK may be lodged with the body of representatives of the municipalities. The decision of these bodies could be appealed in court. However, the payment of litigation costs in the event of a losing lawsuit has also threatened the functioning of a large number of small settlements if their number has increased significantly. Under the proposed legislative amendment, the body of representatives would not be involved in the proceedings in the future. Just to be absolutely clear: with this, the decision of the Land Committee will continue to be subject to redress through the decision of the Government Office, and the decision of the Government Office will be subject to court. However, the court cannot change the decision, but can only order a new procedure. The reason for this is that the purpose of the land committee has always been to present the local farmer's will, based on the well-known facts and the best knowledge. If the court could change the decision, it would take the role of local farmers and the court itself would shape property policy. The bill also re-regulates the examination criteria for sales. It is specifically intended to examine the conditions that arise on the ground and which can be assessed there. Land committees should examine whether a contract at local level threatens the development of viable farms, (2) the development and survival of local farming communities, (3) the land market conditions, (4) the land acquisition of local farmers. However, none of these aspects are aimed at introducing an official price on the land, and local peculiarities must continue to be tolerated in the future. The draft clearly states that the Land Committee must examine whether the land's consideration for the transaction has deviated significantly from the market value on the spot without due cause. The purchase price should therefore be examined on the basis of local circumstances. Our aim is to ensure that the land can continue to be acquired by those who really want to farm, and not to replace the vineyards, provided that the submitted amendment makes a number of proposals in order to prevent abuses, thereby making the land traffic regulation more fair. The draft would modify the eligibility of livestock owners for pre-purchase and pre-lease by adapting the cultivation and size of the land to the feed needs of the kept animals. So, for example, cattle or small ruminants could apply for meadows, pastures. The consequences of non-compliance with pre-purchase commitments would be tightened. In this case, farmers who are back in the pre-emptive line could buy land at the original price. If none of them were to exercise their right to buy, then the State, i.e. NFA, would buy the property. Under the legislative modification package, after its adoption, a half lease or participation contract could no longer be concluded, and the existing ones would expire no later than ten years later. The reason for this is that many have abused them more than once. The local land committee should be approved in the case of land exchange, which was also necessary because of abuses. It became an established practice for the owner to exchange for a smaller, even undistributed, common-owned land and subsequently to use a reference to his pre-emptive right in this area. Irrigation development is key to increasing the competitiveness of agriculture. To this end, the draft would simplify the implementation of water facilities above the ground in common-owned areas by providing for a simple majority decision rather than a unanimous decision so far. The topics described are particularly important for the development of domestic agriculture. That is why we have tabled this proposal with my fellow Members Sándor Font and István Jakab. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-27-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Sándor Farkas: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-52	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, Ladies and gentlemen, It is always very useful for the preparatory of the legislation to receive feedback from the enforcers on the practical operation of the law and possible shortcomings. The situation is specific with regard to the Land Traffic Act, as the President of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy dealing with its daily application is also our fellow Member, so he can propose a correction based on experience in the application of the law himself. This bill raises four important issues, which it has also proposed to solve. When the Land Traffic Act is drawn up, the objectives to be achieved include the promotion of livestock farming as a higher-value agricultural sector, one of which is the provision of preferential pre-purchase and pre-lease seats. At the same time, the daily practice has shown that in several cases, I might say, this discount was intended to be used fraudulently, and many other examples can be mentioned. Although the text of the Land Traffic Act itself provides for the provision of animal feed production, this has been translated into the acquisition of land or land which, taking into account the nutritional needs and characteristics of the animals they keep, are not suitable for the direct supply of the animals they keep. In view of this, I consider that the amendment to the proposal which makes the feed requirements of the animals concerned conditional on the cultivation of the particular crop, i.e. in the case of ruminants, the areas eligible for grazing, while in the case of pre-scattered animals, it ensures the availability of ploughs. Ladies and gentlemen, The Authority's procedure for approving the acquisition of land ownership changed first after the entry into force of 1 May 2014 on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and then judicial case-law. Today, we can see that the local authorities involved in the procedure are more of a problem than a result of their procedural role. The assessment of the appeal against the Chamber's resolution does not fit the profile of the bodies of representatives, and its content must be represented and protected before the court. In addition, the court phase thus instigating further provides the long-term approval procedure. We think it is right to exempt the bodies of representatives from the current burden and to shape the Chamber's procedural status in such a way that they have the opportunity to defend their position at the court stage. I think that the right form of customer status is provided, which, unlike the hysteria that my socialist colleagues have developed over the weekend, does not mean in the least that in the future the Chamber will tell us who can buy land. [[12.00]] I would like to draw your attention to the Act on Administrative Rules, which defines customer rights, and I would like to point out that the decision will continue to be in the hands of the Government Office as a public authority. There is neither an administrative law nor a provision contained in the present proposal which would create an authority from the Chamber and the order of legal pre-emptors remains in force. A closed list and more precise definition of the Chamber's inspection aspects also strengthens the security of the law enforcement staff, as it is predictable what conditions they have to meet in order to obtain more favourable support in obtaining the land. The right to buy into sanctions is a major novelty in the system of the law, but I think that this will have a very strong deterrent effect on making false statements. However, there is also a need for further amendments to these parts of the proposal, which link the new elements of sanctions into the fabric of the Land Traffic Act. So far, the lease and participation contracts have enriched the diversity of the law's titles as flowers in the meadow, but the practice has not been so rosy. It is regrettable that these titles were used in almost all cases to circumvent the pre-lease right, even by accepting the possible consequences of tax evasion. It will not cause any particular operational problem by removing these types of contracts from the scheme, taking into account that, if the parties have been led by genuine and bona fide intent to do so, they can also implement it in their rental scheme, whether it is the payment of wages in the crop or the joint execution of management sub-processes. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the government supports the bill. In view of this, I would like to ask our fellow Members to present their improved amendments to Parliament if they arise. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr György Czerván. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-54	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Both the rapporteur and my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy and the government spoke in very detail and justified the eligibility of the bill; I join in this. During the creation of the Land Traffic Act, i.e. after the ten-year moratorium, in 2014 exactly, we set out the direction of property policy on which we intend to lead Hungarian agriculture in the long term. The formal basis for long-term stable regulation has been ensured by the fact that regulation is a fundamental issue, so its amendment requires due diligence and broad parliamentary mandate. At the same time, it is very important not to leave the problems that have arisen in everyday life unsolved if we already have sufficient experience both of the legal gaps that give rise to errors or abuse and of the means to eliminate them. Such a gap may be considered to be a lack of strict application of the pre-emptive and pre-lease right of the keeper. I am talking about application because the original and current wording of the law, in my view, and here I am joining the Secretary of State, clearly expressing that the aim of the discount is to ensure the production of feed for livestock. This should be done not by cross-financing, but by actual production of feed. If necessary, then let's say, almost chewing on the mouth of the law-abiding person, that pasture for grazing animals, the predator, can be bought or rented with the discount. It is also the limits of impertinence when, in order to obtain a favourable pre-emptive position, the data subject declares what conditions he will meet in the future, and then, once he knows the ownership in his pocket, he will soon forget about it. In these cases, the introduction of the right to buy will indeed constitute a high deterrent and the right or buyer to buy another pre-purchase that is preceded by the fraud and thus left on the hop will thus receive sufficient satisfaction by obtaining the land at the original price. The daily form of abuse was the exchange and the lease or participation contract. The introduction of swaps under official control and the elimination of half-lease and participation contract titles will save farmers a lot of annoyance and increase confidence in public confidence. I am pleased that this amendment will bring a period of time for the craftsmen. As regards the elimination of the role of the body of representatives, there is a debate here as to whether this is a distortion of jurisdiction or possibly a reduction of burden. I have been a local government representative for 20 years, and I know what decisions the body of representatives can take professionally as an elected body, but among them, the Chamber's resolution can be overruled only in the case of a few bodies. Today, this is more of a nuisance for the settlements, which they are happy to get rid of, and the Chamber can be given the opportunity to develop its position in the interests of local farmers and even represent its position before the court. I do not share the concerns that the Chamber will abuse its licenses, even because both the Chamber itself as a public body and its municipal agricultural committees are organisations made up of farmers and chosen by farmers. Today, in Hungary, a more suitable organisation for the representation of local economic interests cannot be said outside this. As far as I am concerned, the court's cash-flow law is a sufficient guarantee because, although it cannot change the decision directly, it may be compulsory to describe the content of the decision in the new procedure. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would be honored to thank you for the support of the bill and, of course, the party groups are also open to the adoption of amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz. I'll wait for the congressman to put the microphone on. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and for your patience. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the moment, our situation is simpler, because we are not proposing amendments to 16 but to 3 laws, but we can say that they are not politically sensitive; they also concern politically sensitive issues. I have two main comments on the bill. On the one hand, I can agree with the minor amendment of legislation, which is mainly clarification and adaptation to EU legislation. The legislation can be supported, as it really helps to tune the actual living conditions and the needs of farmers, helps to eliminate fraudsters, and, as my fellow Member Czerván mentioned, to resolve legal gaps. However, the part of the draft in which the Chamber of Agriculture would receive powers which will not be subject to appeal is problematic. In addition to the State Audit Office, this is another organisation in Hungary today, whose decision cannot be appealed, since the courts will not be able to decide in this case, but will only be entitled to another procedure in relation to land traffic conditions. So we find the idea that, in the case of land lawsuits, the courts will no longer have an influence on the individual disputes, and we believe that the real farmers will be deprived of a serious legal opportunity. [[12.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that land is a finite resource, and in general it can be said that in Hungary, especially in some regions, the land that can be bought is becoming less and more expensive. We are now talking about the fact that farmers are able to fight on a plot of belts, so we need to pay close attention to this regulation, because there will be ever sharper debates. I would like to mention a few words, a few thoughts about the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, just to avoid misunderstandings. I pay great attention and support to the work of President Balázs Győrffy, who is also one of the authors of this legislation, a legislative amendment proposal. I'd like to bring to Parliament the thoughts of many of my fellow hosts from the Chamber. It is very positive and rewarding that they receive a lot of information about bureaucracy through the organisation of newsletters and programmes; therefore, it also provides simpler advice and suggestions, as well as a great deal of professional material for innovative and age-appropriate management, and there is also a very serious programme material for NAK, which is now available. So I think that there is no doubt about Mr President's readiness, ability to work and humility. I think we also have a personal good relationship, and I trust that it will remain after the criticisms, because there are criticisms of NAK's activities, and we also need to talk about it. It is not acceptable for many farmers to be forced into the Chamber. Many farmers also find it unacceptable that the service provided by the Chamber is not necessarily proportionate to the paid membership fee. You don't have to agree with that, and I'm gonna hold that against you, too, but I'm gonna tell you. Another criticism is the right of the Chamber itself. Why do I say that? You can see in the Chamber elections how many people are involved, how many people are active, how many people feel the Chamber of Agriculture. The villagers, how can I say this, and do not go without saying, in many places, they touched the chamber members with a butterfly net, so that, come on, go away and take part in the election where in many places only one representative could be voted and voted. Unfortunately, it is neither welcome nor I know how to put it, it is unfortunate, so I would say: beyond saying once again, I have no doubt about Mr President's professionalism and work, that he is good at it and that he is good for this Chamber, but he is still a Member of Parliament in the colours of a party. So a professional forum, headed by a professional organization, is a party politician, obviously in Fidesz colors. So, if you like, Fidesz will run the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, and now this Chamber of Agricultural Economy will get powers and decide on various disputes. Once again, to put it mildly, this is not a good decision, because I think that at least the appearance of an independent organisation making these decisions is not reserved. So, as long as the organization is connected to the government, unfortunately, people will still have doubts in the future. I go further: not only do the courts have a right to decide, but the municipalities are also excluded from the decision-making system, referring to the burden of litigation. It is also possible to argue how justified it is or how wrong it is. I can imagine and accept that in the municipalities, especially where there are people in decision-making situations who do not really have deep or deep knowledge of agriculture, they are experiencing this as a nuisance, and I can also accept that this means certain costs to the municipality, but it still has to be said that this is a distortion of competence. It is certain that we will submit a number of amendments to the package, and we will make it conditional on the adoption of this bill. So I am pleased that the Fidesz faction has also indicated that this will be done, or, if my note is correct, Mr Sándor Farkas has also mentioned that they will also make improvements to amendments, or have asked us, all parliamentary factions, to do so. I'll tell you again, we're going to do this with a better purpose. I also consider it important to note that the 2013 CXXII on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. The anomalies of law have been tried for years by my better colleagues to deal with, amend, draw attention to this, but my fellow members of the Government have rejected these proposals by not wanting to amend the Earth Traffic Act as long as there is an EU infringement procedure. As far as I know, the procedure is currently underway, but there is now such an extremely sensitive amendment. There is a bit of a contradiction to what has been said so far: there is, however, an opportunity and an intention to make the amendment, to do so. So, as I said, we will make the support of the proposal conditional on the adoption of our amendments, which will seek to resolve these anomalies and perhaps to curb the undue influence of the Chamber of Agriculture. I trust that the system of brakes and balances must also be true of agriculture. I now ask the authors, finally, to reassure us that the Chamber of Agriculture will not abuse the additional rights it has just received. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Yes, once again we are discussing a multi-law amendment, although not as extensive as the previous one. The difference is what I referred to earlier, that this was not tabled by the government, but that it was discussed by its representatives as an independent motion by Parliament. This is an eternal debate that every Member has the right to submit various motions, this is natural, and in the end, the social reconciliation of the proposals tabled by the Government is somewhat more guaranteed even in these circumstances, in which the Hungarian rule of law is now. In fact, there is a suspicion that this type of motion is being tabled as a motion by its own representatives in order to circumvent these social consultations. I think this is still the case, and it is possible to say in this connection that he is looking forward to improving amendments, both on behalf of the national and government, and I would like to say here that I am a great admirer of Adam Steinmetz's work, and I have followed his career in sports, and I really respect him very much, he has entered the Parliament during this term, and I would like to say that in previous cycles, and I do not have much to say that he has the practice of accepting opposition motions, substantive motions, or representatives of the government. [[12.20]] Keep your faith in this. It's really an important thing, and it's important to make professional suggestions, but sometimes after a while you get tired of it, because I see myself personally, and we see that this is not the way to approach these questions. Such proposals serve some purpose; not necessarily values, but interests. Now, I think, as is the case with other proposals, and the aim of the proposal is, as far as possible, a narrow, privileged circle, which is loyal to today's governing parties, preferably take the benefits of agriculture, use the land, or own the land, and from this perspective you can judge each amendment. In my view, this amendment cannot be improved in this sense, nor will the pro-government representatives be open to changing the baselines, so we thought it would be more appropriate to take this proposal off the agenda and bring it back after proper social consultation. By the way, we have said this on a number of proposals. There was also a polarity in this regard at the committee meeting. To make this even clearer, I would also like to ask the national or the representative of the Government whether, in accordance with Article P (2) of the Fundamental Law, it is expected that additional agricultural legislation will be introduced in the pre-Christmas period, in particular in accordance with this specific reference, on the organisation of integrated agricultural production, on family farms and on agricultural holdings. Okay, we're gonna see this. I am only saying this because these issues can be judged in line with these types of amendments, in complex terms and in the context of appropriate social consultation. In other words, this proposal will obviously no longer be taken off, and if it is close to unchanged, I think that there may even be a breach of fundamental law in relation to some of its points. But let's look at some of the questions that Gábor Harangozó, the agricultural politician of the MSZP, was really pressing at his press conference this weekend. This was referred to in the committee and now. Let's also talk a little bit about what the problematic elements are that make the proposal unacceptable to us in this form. On the one hand, the proposal rewrites the powers of the Land Committee. By the way, according to our information, in many cases they did not develop properly locally and function practically as a local organization of the Chamber. The Chamber elections have already been discussed, but if we look at this body with increasing decision-making powers, it is also worth talking about the Chamber elections. In the debate, we have also heard the expression quasi-constrained entry, which I think is a correct term, and, in particular, the examination of the nature and quality of services in terms of high membership fees. Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that only about 10 percent of the members participated in the Chamber elections. I have information that there were no effective meetings that could have been suitable for a programme debate or conflict of views, let's just say mobilization, i.e. mobilization of the host society and participation in it. Technically, it was a vote, which was a logistical task to mobilise government-like supporters. I think it would have been better if the whole farming community had been mobilized, and not necessarily just the Magosos. But, of course, this must be related to a lot of things, and it could have done a lot of other things, but, let's just say, it certainly presents its preferences to a land committee like this. I think the statement is correct that the land committees, so a committee like this, can actually finally decide who gets the land, who gets the land and who doesn't. And here, even in the case of land change, there is this type of entitlement; this has already been said. So in this sense it changes according to the proposal for regulation. I understand that the exception of local governments can mean that the Hungarian municipal system is free of a kind of torture in your interpretation, many decisions that you do not have the competence for, but ultimately, the local governments, the body of representatives, all Hungarian people have the right to choose in the locality where you live. So I think it is a matter of principle and perspective that the Hungarian land is a matter for all Hungarian people, or only for those who farm, own or use land where appropriate. I would encourage you to try to reach a common understanding that Hungarian agriculture is a matter for all Hungarian people and that there may be specific points of view that can be guaranteed by a local government or powers deployed elsewhere. I think it is wrong in this form, especially given that subjective aspects can influence the decision permanently. Does the specific case serve the domain policy guidelines? This is a rather subjective issue, which can also lead to subjective decisions, and in accordance with my criticism of the composition of the Earth Committee, it can also result in the end finding of someone who is right for you. I would add here that, if, where appropriate, a feed plant is required for a farmer to apply for certain fields, then how can he achieve such a certification, whose land was previously taken from him, where he produced feed. We don't know one or two of these cases from the previous cycles. Zoltán Gőgös, a socialist Member, has discovered a number of such cases and the abuses that have occurred. This actually cements the situation that has developed in previous years, and it is very difficult for decent farmers who have lost their land in this way to break out. There was talk of legal remedies and cash rights. Court proceedings cannot change the decision; in fact, they can order a new procedure in this respect. This gives the earth committee a great deal of power, and I think that, along with subjective considerations, it is quite clear that it will result in a situation that has lasted for years, drawing on and drawing on individual matters until these particular lands are placed in the right place. I think that they are all in your interest and make the proposal unacceptable in this form. I don't know how any amendment can change this basic intention because it's very clear that you're trying to change it. There was a big criticism of the weekend press conference held by Gábor Harangozó at one point. It has already been said in committee that the price of the land will not be determined by market conditions, but by productivity. Gábor Bellozó pointed out that, let's say, the value of a Pest county land or the value of certain more valuable land will be reduced, because that is the result of this proposal. Here let me quote:. The sales valuation based on market comparative data is not applicable when determining the value of the land. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is quite clear, so a market-based valuation cannot be applied. This is an incomprehensible provision, especially in comparison with the previous passage:. The cost of the land on the basis of the transaction is significantly different from the market value on the spot without due cause. And there's a condition like that. It is very clear that this will enable many people, with very careful wording, to evaluate their land for hundreds of thousands of landowners, and the previous changes to the land committees, with changes that can be made to pre-emptive rights, will certainly give them the opportunity to play a lot of land cheaply into the hands of those close to you. [[12.30]] They said there was some unworthy opposition criticism about this proposal this weekend. Now let me quote here at the end of my comment from a small town mayor of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, who is not really accused of a socialist deflecting. Here I will quote his words, which he said these days: "It is not out of the question that they are preparing for the sale of new state lands. The state continues to have vast areas, allowing it to sell land cheaply to the chosen people. This was said by the mayor of Komlóska, László Köteles, who himself is a farmer, and once again, he came to this conclusion from a completely different perspective, not as a politician, and certainly not as an MSZP dildo. So I see, both among the stakeholders and in the profession and in the opposition parties, that there is serious indignation that you want to push this proposal through Parliament quickly in these circumstances, which contains points that have already changed and have problems with fundamental issues. Therefore, I would like to call on you to withdraw this proposal in one more attempt. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-11-27-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman. Fix your meeting, Congresswoman. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-60	Yeah, I'm working on it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we should talk about the bill tabled by Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font and István Jakab on the modification of certain laws in relation to the traffic of agricultural and forestry land. But unfortunately, I think we will once again debate how Fidesz wants to increase total control and intimidation in rural and agricultural areas. Thanks to the petitioner, the general justification of the bill immediately sets out what its purpose is; I think it is clear, Mr Secretary of State has even made explicit reference to it. This is nothing more than the strengthening of the role of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy in the control of land traffic and thus the achievement of the objectives of land policy. This translates from Fidesz to NAK and its leaders, i.e. Fidesz, want to decide on each purchase of land. In principle, the management of the Chamber as an advocacy organisation was completely confused with the government after the 2010 elections and did not change after 2017. He also referred to the fact that he called it a lucky thing, and I think it is extremely unpleasant and unfortunate that the president of the NAK, the head of the National Assembly, is sitting here in the Fidesz faction. What is even more pathetic is that at the time, along with our fellow Member István Jakab, who is the President of Magos... and by the way, Magos won the last elections in all 19 counties, where they said very nicely that there was 13 percent participation and how great it was, but that was about 45 thousand valid votes, while you know precisely that the number of farmers is ten times that, at least ten times that in Hungary today. So, you guys filed a law amendment in order to make it easier for the Chamber to choose. As I indicated, István Jakab, President of Magos and Balázs Győrffy, President of Magos at the time, now noted by the Chamber President. So, indeed, you are very lucky to have the leaders of Magos, the leaders of the Chamber, the leaders of the agricultural portfolio, and I do not think you need to sit in the plenary session, sit down in the corridor, and talk about everything: who will submit and what rule, who should be this and how good it is. What we've seen over the years is that this is exactly what they've done, and that's all they've done. In addition, I brought this up as an example because, in relation to the tasks of the ground committee, the explanatory statement states:. According to the proposal, in the future, the tasks of the local land committee in relation to the compulsory membership of those engaged in agricultural activities have already been one or two criticisms in this respect, and the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economy and Rural Development, acting as a public body based on the equal voting rights of its members, will carry out its tasks through the territorial bodies set out in the statutes. The definition contained in the proposal setting out the status of the Chamber is justified by the fact that the Chamber is able, as an independent function, to perform the tasks of the Committee only impartially if the objectives set out above appear in its status. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chamber would be able to perform its activities and any operation impartially if it was not led by a Fidesz politician, Balázs Győrffy, but by an independent person, and would be freed, forgive me, Mr. Vice President, István Jakab and Magos, and indeed represent the interests of farmers. I'm not arguing that the Chamber actually provides farmers with a lot of information. I'm not sure it's always useful, but the Secretary of State just challenged my many written questions. [[Sándor Farkas intervenes.]] I'd like to tell you... but I'm going to increase the bureaucracy. I would like to say that some of my written questions are based on the various conferences organised by the Chamber of Agriculture, where there are indeed interesting things to say and more honest things, much more honest than when you are here speaking on agricultural issues in Parliament or answering written questions. Always pay attention when Fidesz-KDNP takes action on the ground. You may remember, there was the land for farmers! A program. The 2016 CVI on the programme. Law... in which they were embellished to describe that there had never been such a programme, which would have supported farmers and the Hungarian countryside to such an extent. Well, one or two farmers could be asked, and it is an example from my fellow opposition Members who have been the winners of this programme, and how many Hungarian farmers have you destroyed in recent years. You believe that this programme has helped, I quote, the recovery of the Hungarian countryside and has strengthened the agricultural economic positions of the small and medium-sized holdings, and has greatly contributed to the goal of changing the proportion of small and large estates from 50:50 to 80:20. The pro-government part of the Parliament praised the land for the farmers! The results of the programme, the responsible state asset management. So quickly the 26/2016. Parliamentary resolution No. 1 on the land for farmers! The total amount of sales revenue from the programme was also used to reduce public debt. At the same time, you had someone who didn't agree with that very much, happens to be within the Ministry of Rural Development. His name was József Ángyán. He was the Secretary of State for Parliament's Affairs, who spoke about the auction of the vassal granter, but in the case of infidelity, about the land programme. The former Secretary of State pointed out in his report that in addition to the fields played out to the cultures, they kindly gave a little something to say to farmers, whom you consider to be the common people. And for this vulture army, your vulture army, the Hungarian countryside was served. Several of my fellow Members have mentioned that in the procedure for approving the contract of sale, the local land committee would be the territorial body of the Chamber of Agriculture in accordance with the land lying down of the party covered by the contract. In our view, the Democratic Coalition believes that this role should not be carried out permanently, but even temporarily, by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, because such an organisation should not be given such power, especially if it clearly appears that it is under political influence. By the way, I would like to open a short parenthesis here, perhaps not today, with the exception of opposition parties, and with the exception of one or two NGOs, there is certainly no public organisation, an independent state organisation, which would not be under the influence of some vulture army of Fidesz. If approval is refused by the agricultural administration, then the decision of the agricultural administration has so far been subject to judicial review. If this bill is adopted, it will simply end, and the situation will be that the resolution that the local land committee has taken there cannot be changed. We have come to the situation that the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy will have a stronger word in the lawsuit than the word of a law-abiding, executed man. I think it's absurd. With regard to the land value, my fellow Member Varga has already said that the latest idea is that the estimate of sales value based on market comparative data will not be applicable and that, with the exception of the land that is considered as forest, the value of the land should be determined by means of a yield-based assessment method. I don't know what you're trying to do. Do they really want to achieve that, say, the remaining land or, in general, the land that is truly valuable is simply not worth so much? Why does it bother you if the land is assessed on the basis of market valuation or market comparative data, and if there is a higher price? What's the reason? I wouldn't dare to assume that they're going to steal again, although it's basically, every time they submit a bill, you have it, if it's land, and then I've seen it specifically over the past few years that they've really supported their own clientele, their people who don't understand agriculture in any way. There is a Member of Parliament among you who can talk a lot about this, and I am not referring to Sándor Font, Balázs Győrffy or István Jakab. [[12.40]] I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a very, very well-thought-out bill. But don't take this as a compliment, because the aim of the proposal is to discipline agricultural businesses that you don't like. You, I think, have done a lot of harm to Hungarian agriculture in recent years. You have no idea how those people, and I'm talking about the keepers of animals, who have fought a great deal on land for which no one, but no one, has fought, have destroyed you in order to support your own culture in the Great Plain. Congressman Varga rightly put it: the issue of agriculture is not only for those working in agriculture, but certainly not just for Members of Parliament on the Committee on Agriculture, it is for all of us, because ultimately, what comes on the table, and when we eat it, we want it to come from the Hungarian soil, and the meat, the eggs, everything to come from there. I would like to ask you, not trusting at all, and I say to my fellow Member, Mr Steinmetz, that you will accept any proposal to amend the substance of opposition, that I think we would have been better off if we had accepted the proposal to withdraw this bill. Obviously, that's how the law's gonna pass. Obviously, any of our proposals, which would aim, for example, to prevent the purchase of land and the sale of land from happening, are not accepted, you have decided to do so, you have discussed it among yourselves, you can call it a Chamber Assembly, but this was not, rather, a faction meeting, so at the faction meeting, you have decided to do this. After that, I would like to ask you not to be surprised that once your not-so-glorious government is over, very, very many farmers today who say, let's say, in an election in the Chamber, that they can't do anything, that they vote for you, will never speak to you again. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-61	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-27-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to mention the only important part of the bill before us, which I consider to be the most recent in terms of rural sustainability, and that is the role of local land committees and the agricultural chamber, which play a key role in the traffic of the main resource in the region. The recently submitted agricultural proposals, including this one, have been drawn up in cooperation with the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Associations. The merger appears between the two highly politicised organisations, but I'll tell you about it later. Short and concise. T/3636. The work of organisations close to the government, representing the interests of large estates and large capital, with which, and I underline this, the families of farmers are being betrayed. The amendment breaks with the current practice that the task of local land committees, i.e. the opinion of the sale of agricultural land, is carried out by the regional organisations of NAK and their position could be challenged by the body of representatives of the municipalities. The decision of these bodies could be appealed to the court, but if the amendment of the law before us were adopted, the body of representatives would not be involved in the proceedings in the future, thereby further impairing Community control. In addition, the courts could not change the decision of the territorial organisations of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, but only instruct them to proceed with a new procedure. This would clearly reduce the role of local farmers in the control of land traffic and thus the public interest in agricultural land traffic. Why do I think all this? In recent years, LMP has been very concerned with the growing role of the Chamber of Agriculture in Hungarian agricultural governance. We were worried about that aggressive reservation we saw. In addition, we took seriously the principles laid down in the rural strategy of József Ángyán, according to which the solution is based on the situation of the countryside in the growing families, independent economic existences, strong civil and local communities, autonomous small regions and their cooperation, in the network of small units. Teacher Ángyán wanted to reduce the current level of external vulnerability in the country, and he considered it an important tool to increase the economic autonomy of the regions, to keep the benefits of work in place, to increase self-employment and self-sufficiency. None of these objectives is about the fact that the politicised agricultural chamber tells from above, centrally, over the heads of local communities who can get land locally and who can't, quite the opposite: local communities know best what is best for them. We've often seen one thing about government rhetoric, and another thing about what it's really doing. While it remains in words to support small farms, they seem to be increasingly inclined to accept the causes of the world presence of estate concentration. This is what the bill before us serves: harmful land concentration, the political manual control of land sales, the concentration of agricultural land in the hands of those close to Fidesz. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have seen how the land-privatisation initiated by the State and the Chamber of Agriculture has prevented many, many settlements from keeping the land in the hands of small and medium-sized farming families and getting it done. The one who was trusted by the Fidesz government came to earth. Fidesz has not been able to translate the negative processes of Hungarian agriculture during its last 8 years of agricultural governance. Balázs Győrffy, President of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, acknowledged at this January's annual press conference that in the future there would be a reduction in the concentration of holdings and the number of farmers. We can conclude that the concentration of the estate is currently higher in Hungary than in the Horthy era. A small minority of land users have 75 percent of the production area. We fear that one of the results of the bill, which we do not want, would be further speeding up the concentration of the estate by political support. We also consider this to be against the interests of local communities, i.e. the public interest. This phenomenon is directed towards unsustainableness, and it is by no means intended to preserve social peace and ensure the daily livelihood of families. On the contrary, even more land would fall into less hands. The Chamber of Agriculture is the extended hand of Fidesz in agriculture. It was also an eloquent sign of the intrusion into the procedure for approving the land purchase contract, taking the role of local land committees, since the role of local land committees would have been to prevent speculators and capital investors from taking the land away from local farmers. This would not have required the involvement of the Chamber of Agriculture. Local farmers and the local body of representatives would have been able to form an opinion on access to land on the basis of appropriate legislation. However, the government's covert aim was, by means of the Chamber of Agriculture, to provide a politically managed flow of agricultural land, which did not serve the objectives of the national rural strategy described above, but to strengthen the speculators near Fidesz. Let us look at how we have come to the present situation from the local earth committees appearing in government communication in 2012. I started there that local land committees could not be formed by the deadline set, until 1 May 2014 because the executive government decree governing their creation was not published. This is supposed to be because, by means of the fast-tracked earth traffic law, in 2013, the government established a regulation that did not meet the EU's requirements, although there was, for example, a functioning Austrian model for local land committees, Fidesz was not actually intended to form functional, autonomous local land committees. As no autonomous local land committees with veto rights could be set up in the newly concluded land sales contracts, the role of the bodies was temporarily taken over by the county presidencies of the Chamber of Agriculture in 2014. [[12.50]] I repeat: the local land committees were created in the absence of an executive decree. However, in the absence of an implementing regulation, the Land Traffic Act entered into force on 1 May 2014 without de facto setting up local land committees. This is clearly an exlex state, which is an outlaw, unregulated by law, which showed the intended machination of the Fidesz government. The agricultural chambers later sought the opinion of the so-called municipal agricultural committees, which were set up as the smallest departments of the Chamber of Agriculture. It is also an objection to the municipal agricultural committees that their composition is not what local land committees should have been. The Chamber Committees no longer involved only land users. And I would add that most of the people around Fidesz are here. Basically, the Chamber of Agriculture has now held in its hands the right to award land sales contracts for each settlement, which, according to the original government promises, should have belonged to the local community. Since local land committees could not be formed by the deadline set, the agricultural chamber took over their role under the Land Traffic Act, but the legislation does not say whether temporaryity means four days or four years. As you can see, the latter happened. It is now the government's intention that, in the end, instead of the transitional nature, local land committees, the local community, will finally take over the decision of the Chamber of Agriculture. For us, it is clear that impartial social control cannot be discussed above the local land market. Today, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy operates in an anti-democratic and political context, therefore it is not capable of representing the interests of farmers; it has practically become a legislator in shaping domestic agriculture. It has no counterweight, only a clearly visible desire for power and an intention to channel funds to it. If my pro-government fellow Members vote in favour of this amendment, a politically biased institution has been set up to safeguard the powers of the local community. What would LMP do instead of adopting this law in the short and medium term? The principle of sustainability dictates us to follow a family economic and cooperative model that is compatible with European practice and our domestic traditions in the interests of the countryside, local communities and farming families. CHAPTER XXI The creation of a livable countryside capable of meeting the challenges of the 20th century requires comprehensive rural and agricultural institutions that place the emphasis on the protection of natural resources in the public interest and the autonomy of local communities. The involvement of local communities in the land grabbing process has already been used by EU Member States; these examples need to be studied. The original objective of setting up local land committees as a new institution should be reversed, which was to give priority to local conditions and interests and to focus on aspects not otherwise known by the Authority. In summary, we believe that, based on the Austrian local land committee model, the local community can be used to ensure that the ownership of the land is not acquired by speculators and farmers, but only by persons who are going to farm in that area themselves. In the medium term, agriculture should be attractive for young people in rural areas. This requires a series of measures. In order to make agricultural business nets, to devise legal forms and to whiteen the agricultural sector, a long-pronounced law on plant regulation must be adopted, so it would be important to say that a natural person can represent only one legal person with the same activity. The entry into force of this Regulation has been due to a multitude of opponents since 2014. The lack of a clear definition of the concept of an agricultural holding, what constitutes a separate technical and economic unit which is under uniform management, is a hotbed for the combination of subsidies. Young people should be provided with modern-spirited secondary and higher agricultural education for association. A system of agricultural education is needed to teach you how to adapt to the 21st century. The challenges of the century in the food economy. The country's path is not through political relations, exploitation and land concentration, as you try to force it, but through public interest enforcement, sustainability, small and medium-sized family farms, their voluntary alliances and a high level of knowledge. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-63	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Mr István Apáti's speech follows. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, this bill in its current form is completely unacceptable. In ascending order, I'm going to give you the arguments about this. On the one hand, it is very wrong for the Chamber of Agriculture to have an extreme increase in its weight and to be able to influence decision-making even more politically. On the other hand, it is extremely wrong for the courts to be virtually eliminated, the role of the courts being significantly reduced by the fact that the court is unable to provide a substantive remedy and, at the very least, the court's scope of action will be exhausted by launching another procedure. I would like to point out to you, with great respect, that you should have touched other laws then, or that you should have been affected in a different way, that the courts are not merely examining the fact that a person owns or owns 300 hectares of land or a space value, less or more of it in his lease. After all, I agree that the scope or scope of this kind of investigation is extremely narrow and misleading. So it is indeed wrong for a court or a judge to examine in a dispute only the fact that a person already has 300 hectares of land or no land. However, by amending other laws, this objective could be achieved, and then, in practice, the scope of the courts to that effect should not be neutered. But the most wonderful, of course, ironically or cynically, is the most dangerous, most dangerous 24th. Paragraph 4 of this section, honourable Members, which has already been affected here. I would like to go deeper, a little more practical, a little more practical, a little more practical. Determining land value: we can tell each other, we can say nice concepts to each other, but it's practically state price regulation. I now feel, on the basis of oral discussions, that you are willing to move in a positive direction and are able to give up your original position in paragraph 4. It is very good that we do, but we will, of course, wait for the debate and the consideration of the amendments, because the fact that the estimate of turnover is practically eliminated according to the original proposal is totally unacceptable, outrageous, outrageous and shocking. I don't even want to go along with the fact that if, say, they dare to introduce such rules in relation to residential properties, of course, the estimate of turnover cannot be compared to a residential property with agricultural land, but if I want to make a slightly more distant comparison or an example, think that if we wanted to eliminate it there or if Parliament wanted to eliminate the role of valuation of sales value there. It may be clearer for economists or agricultural economists to say that it is a method of evaluation based on yield calculation. Let me just think of a few practical factors. Obviously, the yield of the land does not depend only on the quality of the earth, its golden crown value. It would have been easier if it had been described as a tangible concept, but depended on applied technologies, mechanization, applied chemicals, invested expertise, a number of factors. It brings the yield calculation here, and then, in the case of the forest, it creates an even more complex concept, which is virtually untraceable to the simple forest farmer or forest owner, apart from forest engineers or forest technicians. What you have described here is not only very difficult to observe and can obviously be interpreted as a rubber concept for the benefit of the more economically potent party, but it almost implies the involvement of experts in the process of contracting. [[13.00]] Let's start with, say, the forest, determining the value of a forest. Well, in order to see the species of wood in the forest, the age of the forest, the use of wood in the plant plan, the industrial and firewood ratio in the forest, let's say it should be the subject of the broadest deal, this negotiation process should be allowed between the seller and the buyer. And on what basis will anyone say that the purchase price is too high? Well, how do you compare, say, an end-use nobility holiday with, say, an end-use pedestal or a pedestal? Because if you look at, let's say, in the case of a hardwood forest, in the case of end-use, that it may be worth up to ten million per hectare, it may be misleading, for example, in relation to the price of a plougher or a pasture, and a player less experienced in the definition of forest traffic can torpedo a contract with a price fixed or fixed at a completely normal price. But I could say the same for ploughers and orchards. Three branches of cultivation will be very bad: the ploughing, the orchard and the forest. Are we going to involve experts in the contract process? Then comes another expert, and then comes a third, who or who will resolve the contradictions contained in the opinion of the first two experts. In practice, without civil litigation, we will generate a quasi-civil litigation procedure, prolonging the extremely long contractual process to an extreme extent. And believe me, there's no exaggeration, no cornering. Practically speaking, experts will have to be involved in these three particularly important branches of cultivation to determine whether the purchase price is excessive or fully equivalent to the real value of the area. Or how many factors are involved in a contract process, in a bargaining process that does not depend on the value of the land, nor on the yield of the land, so not only on the value of the gold crown or its quality, the technology, expertise, chemicals to be used, and the other, but also on the personal situation of the seller and the buyer, whether their economic situation or their personal situation is completely independent of their agricultural position, how quickly they want to market the given area, how quickly they need ember money, cash due to their individual situation. The location of the land, i.e. its distance to or from asphalted roads, for the purpose of a merger or for the purpose of a merger of property, is in a position favourable to the buyer from a different point of view. It may say that the golden crown value is lower, but its location is so good, the transport routes offered by the location are so favourable that it may be worth more than a land located in a very difficult place, but, let's say, higher than a land with a golden crown. So, here are a number of economic factors, agricultural factors and personal factors, for which I say that the estimate of turnover is removed, eliminated, prohibited by a huge mistake. So with all due respect, I urge you to take this out. I may say this again, but I would like to urge you to remove it from the text of the norm, because this will cause quite serious protest, because practically the price definition is either twisted out of the hands of the seller and the buyer, or significantly reduced by the possibility of the seller and the buyer, the two most competent players, the margin of manoeuvre in the bargaining process, to determine the purchase price. Or to give you a practical example again: a process of about 4-5 months or more, a process of almost six months, in principle, until the ownership registration takes place at the sale, and in return we didn't even agree to it. It does not matter whether the purchase price is paid at the end of the contract process, or, where appropriate, the seller and the buyer agree that the purchase price will be paid at the time of the contract, this may constitute a bargaining position of up to tens of percent on the buyer's side or on the seller's side, typically, for the buyer's benefit, to pay the purchase price immediately; it will be included in a contract that, if the buyer is entitled to pre-purchase, makes a valid acceptance declaration or, in a simpler way, executes the right to pre-purchase, makes use of the right to pre-purchase, and then places the purchase price and the lawyer's costs already paid by the original buyer in a lawyer's deposit, thereby ensuring that the purchase price paid by the original buyer does not be wasted, and that the pre-purchase holder, who is placed ahead of the order, can use this acceptance by making his pre-purchase right. The date of payment of the purchase price may also constitute a factor affecting the purchase price, which is therefore outside the scope of the calculation of the return and should then be disregarded. Thus, there are a number of reasons why paragraph 4 should be fundamentally changed. Or let me ask you something with great respect, and I would expect a direct answer from either the Secretary of State or any other pro-government figure present, because I would like to add that I can rely on oral narratives when I am going to mention social relations now, but, on the basis of information that I have learned from my social relations with Bács-Kiskun County and Bács-Kiskun County, they want to create at least 3,000 hectares of fruit plantations in Kecskemét, from different types of fruit, three thousand hectares, my fellow Members! and allegedly around this planned investment, György Matolcsy matat. Well, I'll tell you, if that's not true, I'll ask questions, then don't give a damn about the President of the Central Bank around Kecskemét. And may it not be that you want to cut down the purchase price to purchase land for fruit plantations that can be created at very high cost, at very high construction costs? One hectare of an intensive fruit plantation among brothers is 12-15 million forints, assuming professional ice net ice protection, without the purchase price of the land, i.e. 12-15 million for construction costs per hectare, the purchase price of the land is still to be calculated, if any, which, to my knowledge, is not exactly the prices per ploughing hectar near Csenger, but they are much higher, they are likely to turn the field into a fruit branch. So I'd like to ask you that this information I've learned through social relations has, to the best of your knowledge, a basis for any kind of reality. Because if there is, it raises serious questions. Based on what we have just said, the construction cost of 3 000 hectares is between HUF 30 and 45 billion, plus the purchase price of the necessary land. Because if it is true that György Matolcsy and Fidesz-prominents have any role to play in this, then... well, at least in Bács-Kiskun County the next peasant uprising may be priced roughly, because the purchase of a 3 000 hectares of land below the price will not be so easily absorbed by the local community. Or I'll ask you again, I'm not accusing you, I'm asking you the question of expropriation as if you've been left out of this norm text, and here the ants are going to start in your head, trying to use your common sense of peasants, right, they've announced that in Debrecen they're about to set up a BMW factory. That's very good, so if it creates thousands of jobs for decades, of course, it's not against us, but it requires buying up land. Could it not have to do with the purchase of agricultural land at 6-8 million per hectare, which is necessary for the establishment of the plant, the reduction of the purchase price to this proposal? I ask you with great respect, because, given the last eight and a half years of respect for the exception, who is not wearing a shirt, do not take it upon himself to be extremely suspicious of these types of movements, and, where appropriate, even the presenters of the proposal may not necessarily know everything. So I'm not saying in a word that this is a premeditated process on everyone's part, where appropriate, that your good intentions may also be used by far more influential actors within your party family or political community. After all, we do not want it to be worth 68 million forints in the case of expropriations, where it would be worth 68 million forints a hectare of field, which is the 24th. § 4 will be pushed down by reference to a fraction, because the process is going the opposite way again, so they are doing the exact opposite of what should be done again, because it is not that low prices in Eastern Hungary, close to the borders of the current Romania and Ukraine would be drawn to the Central and Western Hungary level, but vice versa: I would like to reduce the higher prices significantly by doing so again with great patience: if this text stays this way, of course, if this is changed, then this criticism will be reduced or, where appropriate, eliminated. And one more thought: if you're already here with state and government price control because this is what you're talking about right now, whatever it is you're thinking about, then why don't you tell me why you're not interfering with the buying-in price with such amazing momentum and death-defying courage? [[13.10]] When we talk about the cost of 14 forints of real estate, when we talk about the disastrous situation of the vast majority of the fruit sector this year, they say what a heretic idea it is to talk about public or state price regulation in the middle of EU obligations and other things. It seems that what would work, or at least what they are trying to do on one side, becomes suddenly impossible on the other side; because I do not want to accidentally step on the ground of demagogy, but it is still an insolence, my fellow Members, that at home, in Satmár, a first-class and above-class apple is covered by a large proportion of producers on the Szamos beach, in which case it can sell for perhaps 50 forints, something that you cannot see in Pest. In Pest, the rubbish we are ashamed to put in the container and the box is sold at a price of 300-400 forints per kilo, which they do not want to buy from us for 50 forints. This is what should be dealt with rather than making such interesting legislation. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me make the position of the Jobbik faction on this bill quite clear here. The Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Zoltán Magyar, my fellow Member, who is now sick at home, wrote in his statement:, If the proposal passes through Parliament in its present form, Fidesz's landlord system will have unlimited power in the Hungarian countryside. As to what we've just heard here, that there might be some big government parasite behind this whole organization, and you're actually handing me your name on purpose, and you don't even suspect what's going on, I don't want to go into that right now. The fact is that I do not have such deep agricultural knowledge as my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, but I live in the countryside, and I see what the countryside has become in recent decades. Then let me present a small empirical experience bouquet to my honourable pro-government colleagues, because I respect it very much, I very much like it when you say, say, my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, that, indeed, the abuse of the world's traffic must be prevented. That's right. But has this happened in the last few years, fellow Members? Then let me refer to my narrower Patria, Somogyland, and let me give you some examples from there. There was the shame that a German company could rent 8 000 hectares of land per hectare for only HUF 10 per hectare for 99 years, otherwise the land-based support from here could be about EUR 1 million. I'll tell you this: by the way, your accounting officer was the Member of Parliament, Mr Budai, who wrote the press this way when he was supposed to be counting the Italian fashion tycoon, fashion mogul, who collected 6-7-8 thousand acres of land in South Somogy, so that we have to see how the settlements that are in the area have gone to poverty. The people who live there, before the change of regime, in it the Gypsies also worked with honor, when they set foot there, lost their jobs, and the social disaster that this caused, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian state, must ultimately pay. You haven't done anything with this situation. They don't start with the fact that they don't actually want to employ people on this horribly large latifundium, and they have to see how many people work there officially: very, very few. But once again, these inactive people or people who have been inactive must be supported by someone, the Hungarian state. Then we can give even more terrible examples. Here was the system of land auctions, to which they so fondly refer. How can we say that a small farmer with a crusty palm buys a codependent 200-hectare area for 400 million forints, and who do my fellow government members want to tell that he was a really small farmer? Hell, no, it's not like that. In total, what was auctioned only in Somogy County, this 10,000 hectares, after which about HUF 12 billion, a third of which, i.e. HUF 4 billion, was spent on ten large interests, including the Benetton Familia, whose members could buy land in South and Inner Somogy for approximately HUF 1 billion. Then again, the dissonance that is manifested here between the sacred text and the observable Hungarian obsession. I am presenting this to you because once again I say that what is read in this bill in many cases can be fully agreed with, or what Balázs Győrffy has said here. We agree, we support it in principle, but that is not how the practice works for you, fellow Members. One more example: the village of your leg, also South Somogy. We blew the scandal, and there was an Italian owner who wanted to get a 100-acre sign. The Hungarian state intervened, bought the NFA for 135 million forints, and then sold it to one of its kissing buddies with a small discount, for a total of about 60 million forints less. Then how is it? ! So, the pals, they get them? This is about one of the members, which would have been worth 80 million forints, which was passed on for 20 million forints. Seventy-five percent discount! What Hungarian person can receive a 75 percent discount of HUF 60 million if they do not have good relations with Fidesz-KDNP? So let's not joke. Here comes the next example. On 17 June 2014, NFA paid approximately HUF 67 million for 24 hectares of land, from a 30-hectare undivided common land estate with a total gold crown of 103 golden crowns. So for 67 million forints, they bought 24 hectares of this land from 82 golden crown areas in total, so they paid almost 3 million forints per hectare for this area. Let's investigate whose land this land belonged to. Do you want to see it? We will take a look at it, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We will see from whom you bought this land for almost HUF 3 million per hectare, so that when you want to sell the estate in the same member, in that undivided common land, let us say, a simple average Hungarian villager, then you will have the answer from the NFA, let me quote:, I regret to inform you that NFA is unable to purchase the property indicated above, given that it is not possible to exploit it economically within the current legislative framework. Thus, the ownership of the Hungarian State is not justified either. I suggest you try to sell the property on the agricultural land market. An 80-some-year-old man who was tortured by the Communists, whose land the Communists had taken away, and with this undivided piece of land in common, was actually given this answer in the form of compensation. And from the other, I'll say it again, they buy it for almost three million forints per hectare. Should we investigate? [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Go ahead.]] Should we go into the details? We're gonna go in there, and I'm gonna say it again, and so don't ask us to have any reservations, no suspicions about a bill like this when it comes to bringing it here, and we have to make a decision about it, because that's when it comes to the accusation that, yes, well, well, Jobbik is such a demagogue, he doesn't trust the government, and we're just looking for the wrong thing. It's not like that! We report on the experience, my fellow members of the Government, that, let us say, my narrower Patria, Somogyínia, is heading for Latinamericanisation, and has already been crippled to a large and interrelated area of ghettos, where anyone who can do so is fleeing. That's the thing. I've taught you once again, I'm not an expert on agriculture, but I live there and I have enough to go up, say, to Facebook, to spin and see the line of former disciples, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out because they're fleeing the villages and not out of an adventure, not because of what you're saying here, but because they don't have a livelihood or a population reserve in these villages. [[13.20]] No wonder. So if you look at this landscape from above, just like the Czinege of commie, who came to us hunting in Kasa and shooting deer from a helicopter, that's how it's related to Somogy, the southern part of it. But we refuse to accept that. We say, yes, that if the nation is an oak, then the root of this oak is the country. This root is chewed by worms. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Fazekas. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I consider the bill that we now have before us to be useful and important. I am convinced that it is also relevant to amend the Land Traffic Act. We already have five years of experience, and we can say that the Land Traffic Law is good, it has worked and that the objectives set by the Government of national affairs at the time to help farmers to help producers have been largely achieved. This can also be seen from the fact that the land law, compared to the whole of the earth traffic law, only certain parts are important, although small parts need to be touched. Overall, the draft is also good, and it serves the goal of leaving the protection of Hungarian agricultural land primarily to farmers, farmers, Hungarian farmers and their organisations, and they can really pay attention to who gets land ownership and actually wants to farm. The fact that the local land committee receives special permissions, I think, is also useful because the local government of farmers is actually entitled to say, no matter how much it hurts certain anti-farming forces in Hungary, anti-farming forces. The government of national affairs therefore bravely undertook to entrust the land resolutions to farmers, farmers' organisations, the National Chamber of Agriculture. The government office can be contacted in the new procedural order, and the court may order a new procedure in this case. I understand that from the opposition side, obviously, this is an attack point, the opposition was attacking the entire land law at the time, but this is not an ordinary authority procedure. I agree that the earth is a very special national treasure for which specific procedures must be developed. This is why local farmers and their committees are supported by the legislation. Detailed definition of responsibilities helps to guide the way in which to do things. This fits with the government's policy, which has not otherwise changed since 2010. It is also considered a farm-friendly solution from a farmer-friendly government and the host-friendly Fidesz-KDNP fraction. There have been criticisms here. The land for the farmers! These regulations have also made it possible. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members of the Opponents, I would like to respond to what has been said at such a level that you are obviously reading newspapers, seeing land auctions, so when criticizing land sales, it is important to note that these sales were made publicly before a notary. There couldn't have been a lot of conspirative stuff. This has been guaranteed by the procedure and by the fact that a total of 33,000 farmers have reached land in recent years. The middle class of agriculture, which forms the backbone of the Hungarian countryside and society, is also being strengthened by the government. So 33,000 farmers, one third of all farmers, this shows that there was never a program like this. The livestock farms will continue to be supported. This correction also appreciates the interests of other sectors, but overall, the spirit of regulation and its perception will not change. I would like to comment on some comments. On the part of Ádám Steinmetz, I am convinced that the comment was correct, and I am glad that Jobbik is now not collapsing, as at the time of the adoption of the land law, where we have witnessed an unprecedented disorder here, although it is part of the fact that Apati and Balázs Ander's yelling, demagogic comments fit into the old bed, seven-and-a-half of them were brought together without any connection. [[Dr. István Apáti: Unbelievable! Unbelievable!]] I don't want to deal with this in detail. I think what you have said has been decided by the Hungarian countryside, and Somogy County has also decided I do not know what you are showing in this room, and the Hungarian countryside has decided on this, when it has not voted for you in any rural area. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Fraud!]] Obviously, this is not a coincidence, and Hungarian farmers did not join you, because then they would have been different in individual districts. [[Ander Balázs: Claessens is not supported!]] It is also part of the fact that, on the matter of your feet, Mr Ander, he deliberately claims that there are false facts, and I know that he has already received detailed information on the specific matter several times. In the context of Ádám Steinmetz's contribution, I am convinced that the creation of the new agricultural chamber was not a kind of pressure for farmers to be a member of the food economy, but to meet a demand that has been formulated for decades, that the Hungarian economic society needs a strong representative organisation, an organization that is able to gather ideas, assertive powers of interest, and thus, in Hungarian economic life, the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian peasant society, can be given sufficient weight in the legislative process. For this reason, it is a huge step forward that this single chamber has been established. That there are proposals, criticisms, ideas, I think it's natural. Obviously, the Chamber also has to adapt to the ever-changing economic and political environment, but this is also happening. I am convinced that the farmers' demand has also been met. This is also the current bill, which I think is particularly useful, for the protection of producers, farmers. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai is talking about total control and intimidation. I think this is a strong exaggeration, honourable Member, and I am sure you are struggling with your own fears and projecting in this Chamber what is related to the modest percentage of your party. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can hardly believe that a thousand-scale earth committee in Hungary could be intimidated or totally controlled. There's no such intention. I don't know where you get it from. But there is no doubt that this anti-farming and devalued attitude, which, I see, also manifests itself in the fact that, as if Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai had left the room, I do not see it here as being known to Hungarian farmers. The Democratic Coalition couldn't win in any rural area. I'm thinking not only of chamber elections, but also of individual districts. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The vote cost you a sack of potatoes!]] Your agricultural perception or the lack of what we have here [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] they are trying to replace me in the form of commentary, and Hungarian farmers are familiar with it, and they also gave an opinion on this. As far as the Ángyán report is concerned, auction results are included in this report, and I would like to point out that not the actual acquisition of ownership, because the actual owner can obviously also be the person who is entitled to the auction, who has the right to pre-purchase, so this can only be understood in the knowledge of the land register data. By the way, I am convinced that the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian economy, has accepted this form of land access. It can be seen that 33 000 people have made use of the possibility of buying land, by the way, DK, LMP and Jobbik supporters. Dear Parliament, More than that said by Ágnes Vadai, who did harm the Hungarian countryside and who did not: I am convinced that the government of national affairs has been the only one in recent decades that has actually worked effectively for the Hungarian countryside, for Hungarian agriculture. In measurable numbers, however unpleasant it is, you ask such figures, as the Hungarian countryside is on its feet, Hungarian agriculture has increased, and 70 thousand new jobs have been created, while the technical supply of agriculture has increased, and Hungarian agriculture has increased by one and a half times, while the decline and decline of DK, the Prime Minister of the MSZP, has continued. Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck also expressed herself here during the debate. Everyone obviously knows that Erzsébet Schmuck was Deputy State Secretary Ferenc Gyurcsány, who helped the Gyurcsány government work at the time [[Erzsébet Schmuck: It's not true! It's not like that!]] and the work of the MSZP government. If that wasn't the case, then I apologize, but during the MSZP administration, he was Deputy State Secretary according to his biography. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I'll tell you how it was!]] Dear Erzsébet Schmuck, wherever you were during the MSZP period, it should be said that Hungarian farmers did not support the LMP's economic programme and the direction represented by Róbert Sallai Benedek, although Róbert Benedek Sallai even campaigned with Jobbik in the district, where he started to get into Parliament, either he or the better man he supported. [[13.30]] So I suggest that it is worth taking back a little bit of the volume here for Erzsébet Schmuck, because the perception of the Hungarian countryside that he conveys may be supported by many, but that Hungarian farmers are not clear. There is a measurable figure for this, the last parliamentary election. Dear Parliament, In view of this, I therefore propose that the proposal, which aims to help Hungarian farmers to obtain land, should strengthen the role of farmers by means of the land committees, be supported by the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Jakab, Vice-President, will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-11-27-70	Dear Parliament, At first, I thought that I would try to respond separately to everyone's speech, but I will not, I will ignore it, more on the subject. The law on the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, I think, has long been passed, and the Chamber has confirmed its right to live, has demonstrated that it is perfectly fit for its mission. One. Of course, there is and must be an opportunity for development and necessity. However, one thing you have forgotten, my fellow Members, is that this Chamber is taking over the entire Hungarian agri-food economy with 17 professional organisations accredited in Brussels joining the Chamber during the elections, plus two more, so a total of 19 organisations joined together. The whole Hungarian agri-food economy and the whole Hungarian countryside. It may be a little sad for those who think differently about the future, but it's the right of their heart, as they think. Another question, now approaching the problems. Please, yes, we have adapted the law to life, which is why we submitted the proposal. We have adapted it to life, so if the problem is that we are trying to ensure that the conditions of the estate are transparent, that speculative land grabbing is prevented from creating viable estates and living and competitive economies under commercial cultivation, if that is a crime, then of course we will undertake it. If we want to enforce the interests of the local farming community, if that is a sin, then we can also take it and list it. Back to the committees. The fact that 12 thousand members of the Committee on Agricultural Economy are working in Hungary today hurts you terribly. It hurts so much for you to have 28,000 local organizations in operation. It hurts you to have a professional background, and the lawyers of the National Chamber of Agriculture are helping you do your job. It hurts you that these people are familiar with local affairs and want to make a decision because they're attacking the committee. I would like to point out to you that, in practice, the committee meeting is fully open to all parties involved. Your location, your time will be published on the Internet. There's full transparency. We don't understand what the problem is. In terms of land prices, yes, we have to talk about it. You know why? And do you know why you're getting in? I'll tell them. I was not the proposer, but I agreed that this issue should be addressed. Because, fellow Members, if you look out for a property on the border of a given settlement and whatever it takes, you buy it, say, up to 30 thousand forints per hectare, and in the same settlement 3 thousand forints a hectare of land... What does the master want? He wants to live, thrive, complete his estate, make it work not only today, but in the longer term. He's obviously gonna have to increase the estate. As much as you say, my fellow Member, it cannot be increased here, yes, it must be increased. If you look at trends in the world, you will always look at the international context, please look at how the size of the land in Europe is developing in the world. We're not saying we need giant estates. Of course, you should agree with my fellow Member of Vada because one of you is concerned about the great estate, and the other one decides that small estates and small farms should be the priority. Make up your mind what kind of position you're going to make then. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are in separate parties! Didn't you notice? Hello.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In return, the fact is that the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy was able to bring the countryside together, to create a consensus between professional organisations, and, as my fellow Member Apáti said, yes, it is very important to find a solution in land prices where the Hungarian farmer, who wants to farm life in the settlement, can complement their holdings in the settlement. And there must be a limit here, because there is a huge difference between investment capital, treasure training or the man who wants to farm. Whether they accept it or not, that remains a fact. That is why, dear fellow Members, it is possible to argue about it and to argue about it. Let's find the best solution, because we can find it, I'm sure. It's right in front of you. On the other hand, I believe that I am convinced that these amendments and I could tell you how to adapt to life here by saying that if someone happens to be a cattle farmer and, say, buying up the vineyard with reference to cattle... is it realistic for the gardener to be able to buy? Is it realistic for you to be able to buy land in line with your activities? Yeah. We want to reduce the role of agricultural land as a treasurer. The farmer should get to it. Ladies and gentlemen, We are responsible for what kind of land policy Hungary will have. We are responsible for how much we can create a system where we are able to maintain the viability of the Hungarian countryside and even improve the quality of life of people. It is very important that we operate within an organised framework. But think about the fact that today the countryside is united, together. Today, professional organisations should be asked, examined, and looked at how each professional organisation proposes, cooperates. This is taking place within the framework of the national agricultural chambers. It's possible to scold the President of Magos without further ado, but, you know, the thing is, I've been doing this for almost three decades, and I don't want to call back, so I'm not in the habit of calling back for 2005 and much earlier dates. We didn't forget, it's closed. The lessons have been learned, and when we build the future, these lessons will certainly be taken into account and used. I ask you to consider it, because there are no underlying intentions, not the tricks. See how people can be helped. And let me last thought, if we are not willing to focus on the future now, when there are explosive technological changes in science there are serious changes in science, when it is necessary to help host cooperation, in precision farming, in the application of digital technologies, how can there be, if there is no organizational force in the countryside who can bring people together, can listen to each other? How could it be that, with the cooperation of 650 villagers, we were able to draw EU funds to almost the last cent, that we were able to help their work by digital means, so that we could provide financial, professional and economic information to people? Professional organizations understand this perfectly. I would ask you to consider how the organisational framework for this activity can be modified so that we are truly competitive. That's a possibility. I think that this bill is for this purpose, because in four years we have seen many gaps that did not coincide with the original legislative intention, and they must be closed, these loopholes must be closed. And do not seek hostility, but that our intentions are to increase the viability of the countryside, to represent the interests of the people. That's what we agreed to, which is why we have the bill. We look forward to your improved intentions. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now we have the opportunity to make a two-minute comment. I'll open the two-minute loop. First I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, and then she is followed by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. They're adjusting the clock. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I enjoyed listening to the passionate speech of my fellow Member István Jakab. Allow me, I don't have a shirt, so I don't take it personally, I'm not one of those people who hurt that the NAK is expanding and getting stronger. On the contrary, I am happy about this, and I am not questioning its right to exist. [[13.40]] The other issue is that I am bringing up criticisms that you may not be facing, because perhaps those farmers will not dare to tell you or do so in such a concrete way. What I was referring to is actually the question of this bill before us, which now gives the Chamber an extra right, perhaps it will not be abused in the future. This is all I've been asking, and this is what we're curious about, so I'm really still waiting for an answer from the authors. Moreover, I have a very positive personal experience with the operation of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, and I trust that this will continue in the future, even after my recent speeches. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck is next.
u2018-11-27-74	Thank you very much. My comment was triggered by the passionate comment of my fellow Member James. I think the fundamental difference in our approach is that you think differently and you think differently about the future than I think about the near future and the years to come. You believe that both the future and the near future will be such a direct continuation of the present, and that we will be able to supply the 20 million inhabitants with food, and that everything will be fine on the main estate. However, we must face the current global challenges and processes that the future is not a continuation of the present. Migration here, climate change here, and I could go on with it, cannot continue agriculture and food production in the same way as it is so far. [[Sándor Fazekas: Only better.]] It's not a coincidence... it can't get any better! You can't get better, Mr. Secretary. It is certain that the current practice will simply collapse. And the key question would be that not only the few have the land, but a lot of people there, in the small settlements, have a small estate, a small land, where they will be able to produce the food they need. There can't be a future, believe me, to project it now. One thing is certain, we will face years to come that cannot be predicted.
u2018-11-27-75	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. István Jakab's two-minute speech will follow.
u2018-11-27-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I promise that today is my last speech. I'll follow you. I may have been too passionate. [[Interventions from opposition benches: Ah, no! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No. We like it.]] But, you know, for me, it's just my life. It's just my life, that's all. For once, let me say it in this House. My dear fellow Member, I think that we can stop progress, as many people would like to, we can't. The changes can't go wrong, life moves forward, and we either get into the race, or we're gonna be permanently behind. We have to take our chances. He mentioned climate change, he mentioned water management, I mentioned digital technologies, I mentioned precision farming, and I could mention the emergence of an incredibly high technological standard in the food industry in line with consumer needs. Look, if anyone in Hungary was dealing with water management, modern water management and water recovery systems today, perhaps you are looking at it right now. If someone has spent enough time on how to use water, surface water, how to live in a living area, how to create a living environment, working on it, that's what the story is about, in this we are looking for partnership. To do so, we need the collective force, the umbrella, within which we can discuss our own affairs, to discuss them. You know, the 17 professional organisations that are accredited in Brussels also manage the departments of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economics, they also manage the interests of their own membership, each of them in their professional fields. That's how the world works. I'm glad I could at least tell you that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There will now be repeated speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Agriculture is the backbone of the countryside, said by the York Convention, and this is perhaps an idea that we all agree with here, at least in principle. So if agriculture is developing, but I will confirm with numbers how Hungarian agriculture has evolved in the last eight years, then the countryside is also developing, unlike what many here, Ágnes Vadai, Balázs Ander, have said that we have destroyed agriculture and destroyed the countryside. And the congressman who yelled that we won because we bought the votes in the country for a bag of potatoes, dear Congressman Gréczy. [[Zsolt Gréczy: For two bags!]] Ágnes Vadai mentioned that Hungarian agriculture was destroyed. He seems to be DK's newest agricultural and rural development expert. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I asked a question.]] , but in such a modest number of factions, obviously all Members must deal with everything...
u2018-11-27-79	Congresswoman! Congresswoman, Sodom!
u2018-11-27-80	...and the poor man cooks with water. On the previous agenda, his comment showed that he had no idea about the common agricultural policy when he criticized our environmental issues here. You have the right to do so, but if you knew the essence of the common agricultural policy, you would know that one of the most important objectives of the common agricultural policy is to manage the sustainable management of natural resources, because, as is usually justified, it is possible to explain to Western European taxpayers that there is more to the common agricultural policy than agricultural production; it is also about environmental protection, nature conservation and rural development; it is also about improving the quality of life in rural areas. And if you knew the common agricultural policy, you would know that there is a condition for the payment of direct aid that is good agricultural practice, cross-compliance; you would know that 30% of area payments are paid under so-called greening, which has a leg that is diversification, simplified: crop rotation, a logical part of lawn management and the application of ecological target areas. This is all a condition for nature protection and environmental protection. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. There is a pillar of the system of support for kg under very strict conditions, or organic farming, and I could say more. So if you knew the essence of the common agricultural policy, you wouldn't have said what you said; but what's late doesn't go away, everything can be replaced. This means the destruction of agriculture: between 2010 and 2017, the sector's emissions increased by 52 percent at current prices, which was the first to increase during this period by 27 percent within the European Union and at the same price, which represents the third highest growth within the European Union. That's how we destroyed agriculture, dear Congresswoman Vadai. Our greyhound exports now reach EUR 9 billion. We have achieved the highest agricultural export value of all time, and this is 52 percent higher than it was in 2010, and the activity, as we are talking about a very significant activity, has also increased by 50 percent. In the last eight years, Hungarian agriculture has repeatedly been a driving sector for the growth of the national economy. Employment has increased by 27 percent, investment has increased by 33 percent, net incomes have increased and the national budget has increased, so the amount of subsidies other than EU subsidies that we are paying from the current budget has increased by one and a half times, including the pig and poultry sector. So if you think that means ruin, then so be it. Dear Elizabeth Schmuck. Not only does our fellow Member James speak passionately, but you too, and I consider this a positive quality, so there is nothing wrong with that. I'd like to ask you poetically, I don't know how many mayors you've spoken to. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Much.]] To take this power away from them or to take it away from them as proposed. I've spoken a lot, too, because I've had a constituency for over 20 years now, and there was only one of the mayors I spoke to who would have said that he would commit harakiri if their responsibilities would disappear; I rather felt that they were happy to get rid of this nuisance. [[13.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I maintain that we are open to the adoption and discussion of all amendments and, if so, to their adoption. But I think that we will discuss this within the professional circles, in committee, in the framework of a detailed debate; I do not see much point here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Apáti is also next to be heard again. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to Mr Fazekas, ex-minister, who said seven or six times and spoke of his opposition fellow Members with his typical arrogance and infinite hatred. I would like to point out to you, Mr Ex-Minister, that I have spoken in detail about the circumstances and the practical examples of the factors affecting the land purchase price. These are all examples of real life, of practice, of how many factors can influence the determination of the land's purchase price as a result of a bargaining process. But I probably haven't listed them all yet, because I may have forgotten a number of other factors related to the quality of the land, or to the personal circumstances of the seller and the buyer. You can agree to individual and list mandates. It is likely that in 1994, 2002 and 2006 you had a different attitude to this issue, but where is last year's snow, these days have passed. By the way, I've reached Ander Balázs 38 percent and myself 33 percent in my district. We are not satisfied with this, but we have no reason to be ashamed of you, who was not even a single candidate in the 2018 elections, but who came from a clear list.
u2018-11-27-83	Congressman! I just want to remind you to talk about the bill. [[Dr. István Apáti: That's what I'm talking about!]] Congressman, don't take the floor to personal things that aren't part of the bill.
u2018-11-27-84	I was raised to be like the god of God, the tooth god, the bathroom, the towel. I'd rather die than not answer.
u2018-11-27-85	Don't do it. It'll leave a terrible stain empty. [[Defiance.]]
u2018-11-27-86	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that I have given the Minister the right answer, who should be more concerned with the fact that he is already sitting up a few lines. But let's go back to paragraph 4, paragraph 24. Paragraph 4 of this resolution, ladies and gentlemen! I find that there is an intention, and I am very pleased to see that the text that goes most far between us could be resolved, for example, by adding a concept of a highly disproportionate price from the Public Procurement Act, which, of course, should then be written around, because this could also become an over-extension or, where appropriate, an overly narrow concept of rubber. But that would be much closer to the legislator's intention, as is apparent from your words, because I continue to believe that the complete elimination of the sales valuation would be a huge mistake, an unjustified and very drastic limitation of the seller's and buyer's bargaining process. However, I would continue to look forward to the answer with great respect to what is the situation with regard to the Kecskemét factor, so there is any real basis for what I mentioned here a few minutes earlier, that this proposal is strongly motivated either by George Matolcsy's interest or by other frontline politicians, because it could in effect significantly reduce the purchase price of valuable land. That's what I'm rooting for, and I'd appreciate it if none of this were true. So, exceptionally, you are hearing opposition speeches when the speaker is pleased that he is wrong, because it would be easier for you too. Because if something is true about making an investment worth between HUF 30 and HUF 45 billion to save significant money on the land's purchase price and involve EU funds, it would be a terrible shame not to mention other speculative intentions. I will continue to maintain it, and we would expect substantive answers to that instead of some of you playing the role of the opposition opposition for nearly a decade now, as to why the powers, scope and powers of the courts have been reduced and reduced to this extent. After all, as I have just said, we agree, I personally at least agree that the judicial approach which only examines whether 300 hectares of land have already reached the extent of the buyer's ownership or not is wrong, so we need to look at it more widely. But that does not mean that the real remedy should be withdrawn from the court or taken away completely. So the goal that I can agree with you is much more moderate. I would expect meaningful answers and meaningful reactions to them instead of pushing each other into taking this debate directly or indirectly in a personal direction, because it really doesn't make any sense in the world. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Fazekas, Member of the Council, will also be able to speak again. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-88	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to some of the explanations made in the debate. One: it was on the part of the LMP, but others mentioned great estateism here, within the walls of this House. Unfortunately, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck is not here. I don't think that the LMP pro-production ideology that always comes back and forth can be credible, as we remember that in the LMP there was a representative, Róbert Sallai Benedek, who, if I remember correctly, applied for 2600 or 2,300 hectares of land in various applications, which cannot be regarded as a modest need for land development. Yeah, that's right, no matter how much it hurts. In view of this, since a Member of Parliament has applied for so many lands, it is hardly credible that LMP is actually on the side of small and medium-sized farmers. However, the government of national affairs and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction have taken a number of measures in recent years that help local producers, local farmers, mainly those with small or medium-sized land. It is enough to think about the right to pre-emption, or the current land committee, because there is no larger owner in all settlements, and in these land committees local smaller or medium-sized producers can speak. But if we look at the fact that in recent years the support of farmers' markets is ultimately helping to make a living as a result of the increase in the number of markets from around 70 to 200, if we look at the fact that the land lease ceiling has been reduced by the new land law that is currently being negotiated, that is, that there is a support ceiling that has been pulled by the government, then all this shows that the shift towards smaller producers, and even the simplified agricultural support and area aid application system, is also serving this purpose. However, the definition of craft products and the preference of small-scale food supply as a form for local producers can also be used here. This allows the goods they produce to be sold directly. In 2010, there were some 4,700 such small producers, now 17 thousand. So many new jobs, so many new livelihoods. By the way, support for short supply chains is also taking place. This is a proposal in which many people have been involved, and other measures, for example, support the trade mark. Congressman István Apáti may have said specifics. I think he used to be among the bellmen about the law of the land. It's really a constructive thing. Obviously, the wallet will examine this, and our faction will also examine what can be taken from it. However, I would like to draw attention in parentheses, honourable Member, to the fact that since 1990, which I started in elections, I have always been honoured by voters with their trust. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members who else intends to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Balázs Győrffy: Yes.]] I wish. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-27-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I think it is possible to divide the comments into two parts, not the comments, but the content of the comments, one that was about the proposal, and the other that can be classified as a general agricultural policy discourse. I am trying to answer in chronological order the questions that I have noted to myself first of all to my fellow Member, György Czerván, thank you for your support and thank you for the faction's partnership. [[14.00]] The next speaker was my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, who approached this issue on a truly fair professional basis; allow me to answer you the same way. I would like to say that we are not talking about a power without appeal. Here, let me answer in general, because several Members have suggested why we are granting Cassation rights to the courts. I would also like to refer here to Mr Apáti's speech that it is indeed a very big problem that the courts would, in that case... give a concrete example, which may show why we have come to the point where we need to touch this legislation. A specific example. A person has gained considerable wealth, no matter what source, and in a certain area he has launched very serious land purchases. Otherwise, at a totally unrealistic price compared to the situation there, or at least not the amounts that local farmers can make available here. In the event that he had 300 acres, he gave them to his child, then to his other child, and then to his wife. And when the local municipal agricultural committees, the chamber's county presidency, said that this is obviously a land purchase for accumulation, because it is all about the transfer of funds to land assets, they said that they do not support land grabbing. The fact is that, at the moment, the court is unable to examine anything else, he said that this man does not have a land of 300 hectares, and this is not about property acquisition for accumulation. That is why we say that the court should not conduct property policy, but that we should give the opportunity, according to the original legislative thinking, to local farmers. That's why we need this. Otherwise, there is an appeal if the Government Office takes a decision that does not comply with the legislation. Because the Chamber says its position, and the government office is the one that finally makes the final decision in the legal sense, and that decision can otherwise be challenged in court. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to say that there is a misrepresentation in relation to municipalities, as has been the case in the municipalities. The municipality is not entitled to override, on a professional basis, the decision taken by the county board of the Chamber acting as a land committee. The municipality had only one option: if the decision was not legal, it could change it. In many cases, the municipalities have tried to make political, economic and property policy decisions, if you will. In this case, of course, we took advantage of the possibility of going to court. The rest of the speech may have basically affected the chamber's principle of operation. Congressman, let me say that we disagree. It is also possible to argue that the Chamber should be a voluntary or compulsory member. I think there's a great deal of power in compulsory membership. On the one hand, a volunteer chamber would not be able to perform such tasks as the land committee. I think it is representative, and so is the opportunity for everyone involved in the agricultural economy to form an opinion. How many people leave is a subjective issue to argue about. Because if we compare it to a municipal or parliamentary election, we'll never get those results. Let us not forget that while in one place there are many places to vote, in a chamber election we cannot give people the opportunity to live with their voting rights in every settlement. Therefore, I suggest that we compare it with other agricultural chamber elections. In this case, we can say that we have no reason to be ashamed, because this participation rate is considered perfectly normal in other countries as well. Let me argue with you in proportion to the price of the membership fee. By the way, using the possibility of compulsory membership, we launched programs such as the ice reduction system, which only saved the Hungarian countryside tens of billions of forints this year. If we add that the Chamber's membership fee is about HUF 7 billion, then I think that with this one program we have fulfilled the requirement that the value-for-value ratio should be somewhere with the paid membership fee. Let me also note that the chamber membership fee that we apply in Hungary does not seem excessive in European terms. By the way, before the Chamber elections, we asked in a representative poll of the Chamber members what they thought about the Chamber President being a Member of Parliament. The majority, a very large majority, thought that this was good, because this is a good form of advocacy. But this issue was decided in the Chamber elections, so I wouldn't want to go on with it. Taking advantage of this opportunity is obviously something that can only be promised for the future, for the future. At the same time, thank God, we have four years behind us, fellow Members, and I would like to say this to many others. From these four years, I think they will not be able to set an example where it can be shown that either the municipal agricultural committees or, above all, the county presidencies, which act as land committees, would have made a political decision. I've never seen a case like this. In this respect, I am very confident about the next period, as a political decision has never been taken. Just because someone has a different political view than, say, me or any other bar manager, that someone couldn't buy land for that, I don't know about that. If there is, please bring it to my attention, because I do not support this kind of attitude. László Varga was the next one in the lead vocals. Let me make so much note here in front of Parliament's public opinion that I have listened to the keynote speeches by not meeting with any of these speakers at the committee meeting. They were not present at this event, so it was so important. Sorry, sorry, no committee member was present at the time, so I say, Mr Steinmetz arrived late; the other keynote speakers were either non-members or did not attend this event. Although I will tell you that MSZP, DK and PM have exactly zero representatives in the Agriculture Committee. They attach such great importance to the Hungarian countryside. They can only manifest themselves when there is some form of yelling in Parliament and accusing us of things that have little to do with reality. I would like to tell my fellow Member, Mr Varga, what I also said at the committee meeting, that I said that he was not one of the speakers, who was also a member of the committee. So there was a meeting? Congressman, we had a meeting. I do not think that we have put aside the professional intention that we have now put before Parliament in the form of legislation in a codified matter. That we would work so that a narrow circle could use the earth, allow me to refuse. That kind of attitude is absurd. Let us think about it and decide who we want to favour by shaping a land estate policy. Whose interest is it if land prices rise without necks? For farmers using land or for those who want to invest in agriculture? I don't think our goal is to have an absurd rise in land prices. And, yes, we are trying to keep them under control as far as possible, to provide opportunities for small and medium-sized farmers who would like to make a living in order to gain access to the means of production that is the basis of their entire farming, namely the land. Congressman Varga, I find it very difficult for me to see you express such criticisms about the election of the Chamber as to why I am head of the Chamber. You're forgetting, please, that your ex-groupmate was on the MOS list against Magos. I don't see why that's a problem. I can see from many opposition representatives that, since you have not been requested by the Hungarian countryside, there is an elemental hatred in you against the Hungarian countryside and the representatives of the Hungarian countryside. However, I would like to send a message to Mayor László Köteles here and through you, Mr Mayor probably has not been sufficiently informed about the scope of the legislation. However, Congressman, you may have more responsibility in this. I would like to say that the land committees have no role to play in the sale of state land. You don't have to visit here because when the state sells, the land committee doesn't have a role. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll try to send him a message that this concern is completely unfounded, and you don't have to be afraid of it. Our colleague Ágnes Vadai's speech was quite intense, which I was pleased to hear, because at least there was colour in the presentation. However, I thought there was a little less professional content in this. I think I can comment on a chamber system where there is a compulsory membership and a member is a vote, and I think I can draw something more representative and more democratic than that. [[14.10]] Help me understand how we can move forward in this, because I don't really see how we can set out a better model than this. This is what I would like to say to Mrs Schmuck, my fellow Member, which, by the way, has been referred to by several pro-government Members, that we represent the main estate, which is a rather extreme attitude. So let's say, personally, to accuse me of that is a rather absurd statement. I don't know if that's worth responding to. But here's what I'd like to say, because, you know, an expression of it was that I was visualizing the concentration of the estate, but, yeah, you forgot to add what the end of the sentence was. After all, when it comes to that, I always add that there is concentration of property, whether you like it or not, not just in ours, but in the whole world. It is very difficult for us to do so, but at times I say, yes, the concentration of the estate is going unstoppable. There are two options, and I think that's what lying about, the second half of this sentence, is a serious political responsibility. Yes, concentration can take place in two ways, with the big fish eating the small fish, or with the small ones getting together, and developing a concentrated structure of property by developing a cooperative, integration or other form of cooperation. And that is where we have the responsibility, for everyone, for both pro-government and opposition representatives, to do for cooperatives, for voluntary economic cooperation which, by the way, do not have to throw in towels when they meet with an economic environment that we can feel around very easily in a very short time. I would like to say to Congresswoman that after a prosecutor's inquiry that validated the election system in the Chamber and the election of the municipal agricultural committees, I would like to say that we have elected 12,000 people, with the elections on the ground. So you can't seriously think that we did the election of 12,000 people on a political basis! It's an absurd expression, let me reject that. Mr Abbot's statement of land value in relation to the yield value: indeed, we have talked about this in person and I would like to reassure Mr President that the intention is not to divert prices from market conditions in land policy. But simply, I would like to give you an example of why we think that yield, what a field is capable of, should not appear exclusively, but as some aspect of this assessment. Let's put up a situation where a farmer would like to buy either a Lake Venice or a vineyard in the Balaton Highlands, but if he is not viewed as a vineyard, but rather as a panoramic property, then he will no longer compete with a group of parties, because one sees a panoramic plot in him and the other sees a vineyard. And the grapes obviously have a yield in this respect that determines the value that can be paid for this land. Let us give the municipality the opportunity, of course, to classify it as an internal area and to change the structure through the settlement plan with other such tasks, but let us not help it with such grass solutions, but rather stop it. The municipality has another solution if you want to put an area in construction property, but those who want to continue to cultivate grapes on it should not be deprived of this possibility. Congressman, our aim is to help farmers, and I would like to assure you of that, and we are waiting for the amendments, because we do not believe that we have the sage stone in our pockets. If you have any suggestions that support the original goals, we welcome them. We are committed to achieving the goal, not in the text described. Those conteos you've outlined here, I haven't heard them, I've listened with excitement. So neither the national banker nor the BMW story I've ever met, so if it's a guarantee to you that I haven't heard of it yet, I'd like to give you that guarantee right here in front of Parliament. With regard to appleland, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, we cannot protect apple producers by the same means as, let us say, agricultural land, because the land within the legal system of the European Union is also a special, restricted animal, whereas apples are a different category. So here we ask you not to expect us to treat these two equally, because even if we wanted to, we couldn't do it. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Ander, that because he says something out loud, he will not be right. However, there was one thing I agreed with you in your speech that you, Congressman, did not know how to do this. And no offense, I don't know, like, health care, I don't know about nuclear energy either. But I believe, however, that we are not bringing my fellow Hungarian Member here as an axioma term, I accept, respect his opinion, but I do not think that what he says is an unquestionable reality. The fact that the large-scale plant has more people involved, we agree, and if we look at it, government measures will affect this direction. It is important to see how much support or land a major estate can use when paying SAPS grants at all, but this shows the government's intention, which, by the way, is completely in line with what you said. One more thought about NFA: NFA does not buy land, that is what I would like to say to you. So by going there and buying land, it's basically not the primary task of the NFA. NFA's task is that if, as a pre-purchase holder, it sees a person or an interest which he does not support, because he does not match the property policy objectives, he can exercise his right to pre-purchase at the same price as the one in the contract, as he is in absolute first place in the pre-purchase line. I think that we did not make a mistake in this regard when we put this in the land law, and I hold that to this day, that this was a very right decision. The state's absolute pre-emption right has been granted. Dear fellow Members, I would like to thank Mr Fazekas and Mr James for the words of support on behalf of the authors. I think that in many ways they have highlighted what I have tried to explain accurately. Of course, a very long debate could be held, but perhaps the legislative amendment itself, which lies before us now, does not require a longer term. As a last thought, if you have any professional proposals that you would like to discuss with us within the framework of a detailed debate, you should do so before the deadline for the amendments to be tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law amending individual laws in relation to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy until closure. The proposal submitted by the representatives of Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font and István Jakab, Fidesz is the T/3637. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-11-27-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As I mentioned at the previous item, we have prepared two legislative amendments and, in addition to the proposals on land, we have also initiated legislative amendments to improve the competitiveness of the actors in agriculture. Here the following laws are affected by parts of the package of proposals: first, the 1996 LIII on the protection of nature. Act on Wildlife Protection, Wildlife Management and Hunting, 1996 LV. Act CXLIV of 2009 on Water Companies Act CLXXXVII of 2011 on Vocational Training Act and Act CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. Law. The proposal fills the old regulatory gap by placing the compensation for damage caused by protected animals, such as wild geese, within a regulated framework. To date, for these species, the nature protection authority had to provide for alarm, capture, damage, but there was no provision for who would bear the damage if it did not. The proposal assumes that the protection of certain animal species is of strong public interest and that the legal basis for the imposition is derived from the public authority functions of the State. If, however, a body of the State does not or does not perform its tasks properly and the damage is caused by it, the authority shall pay compensation to the injured party. The proposal reflects the objective of properly balancing responsibility for protecting the natural environment between the individual and the community. In 2015, we adopted the new hunting law, which provided solutions to the fundamental challenges of wildlife management. However, the practical experience of the period since then has justified fine-tuning of the legislation. [[14.20]] The bill amends the scope of the law by covering only the hunting area and the wild species in the natural environment. On the basis of practical needs, the proposal allows for changes to the limit of the wild game management land unit at the end of the operational planning period and on the basis of the joint initiative of those entitled to hunt within the operational planning period. However, it has now become obsolete and slows down procedures to allow the tenant to have a pre-lease right in the event of re-lease of the hunting ground, thus eliminating this possibility for the future. The amendment to reduce the amount of wildlife damage to be provided by the amount that has already been paid for wildlife damage by the last day of October of the given hunting year also serves life-likeness. The amendment concerns the payment obligations set by the delegates of the water management associations before 27 December 2012. In the future, the fulfilment of such obligations will only be required on the basis of a decision at the general meeting level. The amendment of the Vocational Training Act is required by the previous transformation of OKJ: the professional qualifications of forestry and game management technician are separated, and now there is also professional qualifications of forest technicians and game management technicians. The proposal concerning the Agricultural Chamber Act includes new services to be provided in the future, such as the operation of the digital agrarian academy, local ground management tasks and tasks related to the acquisition of agricultural and forestry machinery licenses. In addition, in the light of previous experience, the rules on chamber elections and the provision of data will be amended. The latter allows, for example, proactive notification of Ancient producers before certain deadlines have expired. All the topics presented can promote the development of domestic agriculture, so I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-94	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as we have heard from the rapporteur, we have reached an important stage in the negotiation of this law. The bill before us is not welcome, but we say that it is a typical salad law, which deals with issues that are sometimes considered small, but if we put them in a proposal, they are extremely important, and they can be decisive for and even become specific to the various laws of the sector. I would therefore like to express the Government's position on the law in a few thoughts. The amendment to the Nature Protection Act removes the unblessed condition that the farmer himself is obliged to take over the financing of nature protection from the State when he is obliged to tolerate the damage caused by a protected animal, because the nature conservation authority does not contribute to the damage of the injured animals from a real and acceptable nature conservation point of view. It is therefore appropriate for the State to pay appropriate compensation to injured farmers. Another important issue is the Water Society Act, which is a rather... many years ago, I could say, we have discussed the importance of this law on many occasions, but there are always issues that need to be closed, adapted to life, and the issue of paying the water society contribution is also an unfinished request. In the years 2011 and 2012, the National Assembly already laid down by law that a general meeting decision is required to impose payment obligations, as the right of individual farmers would be violated or expressed in opposition in the course of the debate prior to the decision. At the same time, provision should be made for the imposition of ongoing obligations, even imposed for an indefinite period, which is settled in this proposal. Another important issue is the correction of the boundaries of wild game management landscapes within the timetable period, which has already been mentioned by the rapporteur, or the clarification of the functioning of the wildlife damage fund. With regard to the latter, it is reasonable that the amount of compensation already paid in the course of the year should not be re-designed at the time of the replenishment of the game damage fund in November; this is also a practical issue. Finally, the proposals made with regard to the law governing the operation of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy can be said to be supported by the government as well as by some of the issues mentioned above. I would like the contributions of my fellow Members and, later, their vote in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-27-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly, since the speakers before me gave a detailed justification for the presentation. The essence of the amendment of individual laws in relation to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy is to respond to the practical questions of the laws opened since the entry into force of the law and to refine the procedures. At the reading of the draft, it can be seen that we are not talking about a comprehensive, many legislative proposals, but that five laws will be opened, and several sections will be opened in the bill on the protection of the wild and on the Chamber of Agriculture. Accordingly, in all but a few sentences, I explain why the Fidesz and the KDNP faction agree with this proposal. In the Nature Protection Act, the author regulates that the damage caused by protected animals must also be reimbursed, namely to the nature protection authority, which seems trivial, since a farmer has suffered damage and has not yet been able to defend himself against it because of the nature of the protected animal. The main point of the opening of the Hunting Act is that it allows for changes to the limit of the wild game management area at the end of the operational planning period and on the basis of the joint initiative of those entitled to hunt within the operational planning period. By opening the Water Company Act, the national authorities propose that the fee charged to members may be imposed only by a general meeting decision and not by a meeting decision. In the VET Act, the author points out that the professional qualifications of forestry and game management technicians are separated from those of forest technicians and game management technicians. The Act on the Chamber of Agriculture is accompanied by a motion clarifying the procedure. I respectfully ask the Parliament, all the factions, my fellow Members, to support this proposal, just as the Fidesz faction has done. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting to feel like Secretary of State Bence Rétvári on Monday A, he has to stand up and speak regularly. Although I am not used to this as a new Member, I have a lot of laws to comment on, and I would like to do so with professional skill, so I apologize if I look at my notes more often, because this is already necessary above a certain level. The T/3637 in front of us. A number of legislative proposals are also intended to amend. The amendment of the legislation on the protection of nature, as the State Secretary has just said, has read it, it is perfectly logical and reasonable. Similarly, we consider it reasonable and eligible to amend paragraph 1 of the Water Association Act, which means that at such a general meeting, a representative may represent up to five members in his place in the possession of powers of appropriate formality. [[14.30]] I myself was at a water society meeting where a person, if I remember correctly, represented 64 people, or a narrow group represented a certain majority, and a significant majority of those who appeared remained in minority because of these powers of authority. I believe that this could have caused a number of abuses, and I am pleased that there is an intention to change this. However, we do not really understand it, and it is not eligible in its present form, and I quote:, the payment already made to the company on the basis of the delegation decision delivered by the member prior to 27 December 2012 cannot be claimed back, and this should, of course, also be referred to in the pending judicial and enforcement procedures. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the general limitation period in Hungary is five years, while this legislation is consistent with it, but I also have to say here that in such a company, where it is mostly channel investments, this is not going to take place in five years, so the first financial contribution of the members, which usually precedes the period of planning or conducts the planning, the various consultations, in many cases several municipalities are involved and carries out a specific investment of tens of billions of forints, even of this magnitude, is also affected by a number of stages of coordination and planning. To give an example here: such improvements in Budakeszin and Érden lasted 12 years. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2007 the level of state aid was 65 per cent even in such investments, and then over the years, this continued to grow to 85 per cent, then 95 per cent, and finally the total amount of state aid that we welcome, and it is a very good thing that people do not cost money or less money to invest in infrastructure for the development of their quality of life, but the sums paid in this way, which we believe, and not only we, but also the members, believe that, since the state financed it later, they believe that these amounts would be recovered. I would like to give you an example, the case of the Somogy County Affair, where this was also the case: more people paid their contributions to the member, of course they didn't, but in the end there was a kind of chaos, neither a proper settlement nor a repayment of the sums, and we have a firm position that these funds should be accounted for, and we cannot, for example, spend it on other renovation funds, not once, let us say, road renovation, which is also a useful goal in the life of a local government, but people did not give this money to it. So I think that this is not acceptable in this form. I would like to turn to the next legislation on the protection of wild game, game management and hunting, which is perhaps the most changed in this draft. I would like to highlight a few things, comment on them, and ask questions during the trial. The regional unit boundaries were drawn in 2016 in a seizure mode and generally not precisely defined. These polygons rarely fully cover the location number of the property concerned. For example, where the Marcal River would be a reasonable and natural boundary, there are places where the defined map boundary extends beyond the other side I think it is necessary to improve and review this, so it is perfectly reasonable. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur, from among the authors, to see my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, in the Chamber, to reassure him, and not only me, but also others, of the fact that this amendment, except for the reasonable case I have just mentioned, will not unilaterally rewrite later the territorial boundaries and, therefore, the border of the hunting grounds, as I believe that the rights acquired in 2016 for 20 years would be taken away or limited by the law, which is unconstitutional. I go on:. The right to hunt is considered to be exercised if you hunt yourself in your own hunting grounds or in the hunting area which you rent, and this is also an important and reasonable change, so that companies can engage in wage hunting. By the way, I think it's very lifelike in today's context. I would also go further, I could start by saying hallelujah: the circumstances of the gathering of the landowners have changed in a positive direction. What do we mean by that? I quote from the legislation:. Legal impact is linked to publication on the central electronic information website of the hunting authority. The notice shall also be posted for information to the originator on the municipal billboard of each municipality concerned. What are we talking about more specifically? Therefore, only and only the notice posted by the authority will have legal effect in the future, and perhaps the age of compulsory posting of these announcements to the municipal billboards will be over. I felt it necessary to highlight this because it is a very positive element of this legislative change package, because there have been a lot of complications in recent years from the fact that, as a matter of fact, counter-interest parties have ripped these notices off the billboard, obviously with complete malice. There were also technical reasons, so more than once for a larger hunting area, where, for example, up to 12 municipalities have to send these notices at the same time, one day. An interesting question: it is also good news for hunters, it is absolutely possible to see good intentions and the author's experience, and I think that they have listened to the hunters' requests by: "The hunter is obliged to compensate for the damage to the game, who is in the wild and who is entitled to hunt it, and who has suffered injury in his hunting area. Now, to my fellow Members, I say that the point is not here, but the point is what was in the past, or what is in the current legislation, because according to the proposal, the institution of the so-called wildlife withdrawal has been deleted from the current legislative text. I think it is important to say that there is no hunting in the internal area, so it is perfectly reasonable and justified that the harm caused by the savages in the interior should be considered only here in the village gardens on what basis we ask of the hunting company, since it is not even possible to enter the road or the interior, let alone use it in the villages or in our settlements. It's certainly good for the hunting company, but what about Aunt Mary and Uncle Laci's potatoes, what about the plant that the boars are rooting out of their gardens? If there is damage caused by the game in the interior, who will be responsible for it, and who will reimburse it? In the present amendment, I do not see the regulation of this regulation, and I therefore ask the rapporteur to give a reassuring answer to this question, because there are probably going to be a lot of problems with this responsibility. [[14.40]] Then I'd like to continue with the 12th. §: In fact, the Vtv. 100. The special rules of the order of hunting under restricted conditions will be laid down here by the Minister in a regulation, on the basis of a mandate. But I will also speak to Mr Secretary of State about what this means in practice. I ask you to explain this further, it may be a foggy weather, so what can we expect, because this wording cannot be called concrete, and why this amendment had to be included in the text. Please help me understand more easily. The case of the withdrawal of pre-lease rights: I also dare say that it is not beneficial for everyone. So far, this legal institution has protected companies that have been legally engaged in hunting for many years or even decades. What am I thinking here? Those who have paid the owners the lease fee that is legally payable and that is laid down in the lease, or who have been regularly entitled to the game damage, have so far protected their interests by this legal institution, the pre-lease right, and in the near future we can expect that in the first place, the vast majority of the areas with a lease which now expires are hunting areas with land owned by the state, and probably because this pre-lease is being lost by the farmers here, they will be the victims of this amendment. Although I would add that they will, of course, be able to submit an offer to landowners, and it is also true that the landowner community does not necessarily have to accept the best financial offer. So I think that, in previous years, a company, association, or even another person entitled to hunt, can have a sufficient reference activity. So I'm gonna finish up here. I thank you for your attention, and then I will look forward to the answers to the questions asked, either during the debate or in the closing. Thank you in advance. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Balázs Győrffy, and I have a serious practice of taking you here before the proposals on how appropriate a social consultation was. We probably don't think about this. I would not go through the same debate again, in any case it is probably because of your intention or whether a social consultation in line with legal requirements is going on, in my view, two separate things. But I'm gonna cut this short because I think we've been doing this a long time on the previous agenda. However, in his reply, he raised something which, I think, concerns the work of this House in general and the work of our group in the field of legislation on agriculture, agriculture and rural development. He suggested that he couldn't delegate, that there was no place for the MSZP on the Agriculture Committee. This situation has come up because of a lot of pressure, and it is not good for us, so it is not good for us. In this regard, I became a permanent delegate on the Committee on Agriculture, and I am involved in the work of the Committee. You know, my fellow Member, that this practically means that I have virtually all rights, apart from taking part in the vote. I'm there regularly at the meetings. I'll talk to him. I note that I am there more than just some of our pro-government fellow Members and I am speaking to him more, so this is such a situation. At the same time, it seemed to me that the debate was not satisfactory for you either at committee meetings or here. I'd like your help. Because the House Committee left a few weeks ago that this political agreement, which was concluded, would be reviewed by the factions. In many parts of this agreement, the composition of several factions has changed fundamentally, so this agreement has matured for a rethink in recent months. After that, it came in like an ambush yesterday, obviously there's a lot of personal issues before that. In this regard, we could only abstain, but we would still like to delegate a member to the Committee on Agriculture. We think that everything gives us the right to do so, to help us rethink this agreement, the agreement between the factions, then, I think that we could have even more constructive debates there. But for the record, as you admitted, I was at the committee meeting on the previous agenda, and I spoke to him twice, by the way. I would like to say that, apart from voting, of course, I will participate in everything there, and our faction will be able to continue this work at one higher level if this agreement is reconsidered. I think Adam Steinmetz has told me a lot of things in the past. We're still talking about a salad law for five laws. It was a discreet charm that the Secretary of State began by saying it was a salad law. It is not necessarily heresy, of course, that some salad law, the problem is that it contains amendments in a different direction, which, let's say, would trigger a completely different voting attitude from opposition representatives on a case-by-case basis. This is partly the case now, of course, Ádám Steinmetz mentioned a lot of things that are forward-looking, and I would not comment on them as time progresses. Of course, we have found these, but we believe that the basic problem is that the nature conservation authority and farmers are facing a kind of opposition to the proposal. He was an expert who almost called the bill lex Butcher, because here we said lex, we already had lex Semjén and lex Áder. In fact, this story came up in the context of peaceful hunting grounds, and the border of wildlife management regions can also be modified within the operational planning period on the initiative of those who are eligible for hunting. Obviously, this has come up in a specific case. Moreover, this particular proposal, this option, has little to do with the competitiveness of agriculture. The author has just pointed out that he has too vivid a fantasy for opposition representatives. Let it be so, but in order to say that we have a serious experience in recent years, that the legislative will is not always value-based on your part, but let us say that it is mostly interest-based. Then I would just like to give you a few short examples: here we should find such an optimism between the nature conservation authority, i.e. the interests of nature conservation and the interests of farmers. This would probably also be a government task, such as, where appropriate, making the farmer financially interested in preserving the habitat and protected species. This would be a noble goal, and if such objectives were to set out the completion of such a proposal, this would in any case be eligible. I don't think the optimism is correct here. There is something that is contrary to the interests of farmers, and there is something that weakens conservation guarantees, by the way. I'll tell you one thing about the latter: the smallest number of wild game that has to be preserved on the hunting grounds will be avoided, which could weaken the conservation guarantees. You can say that we should be good faith, but in the end, it weakens such guarantees. I note that, for example, I have referred to it today in the well law, and we are now using the term in this way, for example, in connection with the concerns of the President of the Republic, and then the Constitutional Court's view was that it was not possible to withdraw from these conservation guarantees for future generations. I think it's a step backwards. Now that it represents the degree of constitutionality problem, that could be the subject of debate, but this can be seen as a step backwards. The question arises as to how this would proceed in a constitutional test, whether it would stand the test of constitutionality. [[14.50]] Here's the thing: whoever comes from their hunting grounds is no longer obliged to compensate for the damage to the game. This is, by the way, a disadvantage for agriculture in this sense. And there is a provision that reduces the coverage of wildlife damage, which is also detrimental to agriculture. So I have actually managed to put this proposal together on these issues, and, of course, there are a lot of things going forward, which have already been said, and I will not repeat it, but I can say that conservation concerns can actually be raised here, as well as concerns from the point of view of farmers. These questions are certainly to be resolved. [[In the notary seat Dr. László Varga will be replaced by István Szávay.]] In general, let me also point out that if the title of a legislative change package and salad law was to "amend certain laws in connection with the competitiveness of the agricultural economy, then, in addition to such amendments, which contain partial elements, one would think of a comprehensive thing, and I will soon make it clear what I mean. Prime Minister and others have often said that the Hungarian agricultural economy is capable of providing 20 million people. By the way, this is what I've been talking to experts about or what work I've read, so it's really a very serious national value, 10 million living here, and I think it should be used well. If we are talking about competitiveness, then I think we are talking about putting things on the table, adopting laws that lead us to this, so that we can go forward in this direction, so that we can have a home for all the more people. Today, we are not fulfilling half of this opportunity. When we look at such competitiveness issues, the opposition and the population of the country must expect more than apologies to the Chamber for the more privileges, and then everything will be fine, so let's put such partial interests on the table. We expect more than that. I'll give you an example: I think that if there was a normal water management in this country and I say this at a time when the drought of centuries of record has hit our country, and we have heard today that we need to catch water, we have heard it for years, and we really need to catch water, but what are the concrete steps in this regard? Today there are about 100,000 hectares of irrigated land in this country, 200,000 hectares not so long ago it was a huge tension, the difference between the two, I think, and it would be possible to maintain water properly, according to many experts, to create 500,000 hectares of irrigated land here in our country. My fellow Members, such as my fellow Member Czerván, are also nodding here. Thank you for agreeing on this, that we see it the same way, these are really objective things and numbers. I think that if there were nothing else to do with such a proposal, just to examine the possibility that we could increase the proportion of irrigated areas, that we could keep to 500 thousand hectares or that we could reach at least 200 thousand again, then we would do a great deal for the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture, then we could really talk about the fact that the Hungarian agriculture can compete with Italian and French agriculture. We will always support proposals in this area in a constructive way, but we will say our criticism as we have just said. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, head speaker of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font, István Jakab colleagues submitted T/3637. I regard their bill amending individual laws in relation to the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. So we would like to talk about the concrete bill itself. True, my fellow Members, my specialty is not agriculture, my specialty is law enforcement, defence and national security, and I certainly cannot view it as well as the previous minister, and I certainly do not understand the Dányi Ignác plan, the cavalry centre, Tápiószent márton, or even 45 million forints, as did Congressman Czerván, who was the lead speaker of Fidesz. I may have read more about hybrid warfare than Congressman, but I would not dispute your right to come in the next time we are discussing the Hungarian Defence Forces at night. Just because I think that the more people talk about the issue of agriculture, the more aspects we can shed light on. Moreover, perhaps there is no discussion between us that agriculture is not only a matter of agricultural workers, not only of the Fidesz Members of Parliament dealing with agriculture, but of all of us. It's either because we come from there or because there are people who live there or because we eat, say, apples that come from the countryside. So you are right, Mr President, thank you very much for your presentation on the common agricultural policy, although my comment was not about this, but that it would be very good if there were a Ministry of the Environment, and I expressed this concern, but, once again, I acknowledge that you are much better at the riding centre, and obviously, as Secretary of State of the Ministry, you had a much greater influence on the Dányi Ignac plan than I am. If we look at the bill, which Mr Varga has already said is about the competitiveness of the agricultural economy, then it should be made clear here that we are talking about the competitiveness of the agriculture that the former President of the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, the Director-General of the current National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation, said that, in particular, the subsidies are keeping it alive, without which this would be inoperative. At one event, Csaba Gyuricza indicated that the sector's output was HUF 2600 billion per year, while the total funding was HUF 600 billion. The expert also called it alarming that global agricultural emissions have increased by 70 percent since 1990, which has decreased by 30 percent in Hungary. And since I am able to learn and read the opinions of others, I would like to quote from the article entitled "Hungarian Development Policy" on the nap.hu portal, which has become dependent on the application: "The starting point is that EU funds are vital for Hungarian agriculture. Tibor Sólláth, President of the county of Hajdú-Bihar, said that EU subsidies give stability to agriculture, while the managing director of an agricultural business, from another perspective, said that 30 percent of domestic agricultural enterprises, including their own business, would be able to survive on the market without Community and national support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And I quote these because the title of this bill, and Congressman Varga referred to it, is obviously an amendment to certain laws relating to the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural economy. The following sentences were also made on the Expo: . The Hungarian development policy has become too competitive: companies will develop in ways that are made possible by the calls for proposals and provided resources, even though they should follow the direction dictated by the domestic and international market and accordingly develop support titles. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I have brought these quotes here, fellow Members, because, although it is indeed very important, in a technical sense, it is a matter of amending, leading out, clarifying interpretation and applying law and professional concepts; of course, of course, the amendments to the Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, which we clearly reject, because we do not wish to participate in any level of support for a pseudo-government organisation organised on a political basis, who obviously do not represent the general interest of farmers, but we have already discussed this in advance. We could very much support the bill and the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, if this were indeed a politically independent, economic and supportive body, and there would have been an amendment in the proposal, but basically we saw that, although the salad law is not a far-reaching salad law, at least it is appropriate for agriculture, the bill does not essentially deal with issues relating to the competitiveness and competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture. It is clear that the Director-General of the current National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, but even within the NAKs, clearly see that without EU funds, the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture and the maintenance of Hungarian businesses would be almost impossible. Since the importance of agricultural professionals has been mentioned in the last few hours, and you have spoken very strongly about the fact that DK myself would be the agricultural politician, which I would not take for myself, because I made clear that I am not an agricultural politician, I just want to deal with this issue because I think it is important for the future, let's just look at the relationship between the title of the law and the petitioners, because I think it is an important issue. [[15.00]] After all, the attitude of those who submit these legislative proposals to competitiveness, to the competitiveness of agriculture is extremely important. One of the petitioners is my fellow Member, István Jakab, who we know is the President of Magos. He was generally known for protesting against the planned amendment of the Law of Earth and the National Land Fund Act in 14 counties with over 1100 tractors at 24 locations, and it was he who gave an incendiary speech to Dabas in order to ask for the agricultural management at that time. Which is very nice, isn't it, old times... [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] However, when it comes to the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture, we did not hear a single word about why VP investment grants have a period of one and a half years. Why isn't that in this bill? Why don't we deal with, or have the government representatives dealt with, since such a bill has already been tabled to regulate this issue, so that we can make the Hungarian economy more competitive? After all, it has been recognised to me in writing and orally on several occasions that the investment aid assessment period can be up to a year and a half. A year and a half is a terrible long time in agriculture! Mr Font Sándor has also been dealing with agriculture as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture for a long and long time. Unfortunately, I could not attend that committee meeting, but I carefully read the report, because it also helps to understand, although it does not give the mood back, but it must have been exciting to have that committee meeting; there I read when the committee discussed the state of the agricultural support payments, that such a pleasant little casino was formed and talked. I saw the same at the Agriculture Committee's Gardening Subcommittee this week, where it was also acknowledged that it was sad, but it was a year and a half before some subsidies were assessed within the garden. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know about agriculture. I'm sure you can better figure out how many times carrots and vegetables grow in a year and a half. I'm sure you're better at this than I am, that's a fact and a fact. So I don't know about this topic, I just buy carrots, and I really don't produce at home in small areas or in large areas. That is why I am saying this because if we want to amend the law on the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural economy, this question must be raised. I have already indicated to Congressman Győrffy, because he is sitting here as a Member of Parliament, but there is also an agricultural chamber amendment in this bill, so obviously there is a rather interesting and strange situation when a request is made within the Chamber of Agriculture, then suddenly they can make a law very quickly without really consulting, sitting among themselves in the Fidesz fraction, or I think Fidesz has a group of agricultural workers, they will discuss it nicely, and decide to make a law out of it, and then bring it to Parliament, together with Mr. State Secretary, they will sedate how much the government supports it. It would be much easier if all these laws were now simply given to the agricultural chamber, and then they would write it, in case they were paying more attention to spelling errors. However, at the time when we have to talk about the situation with Hungarian farmers, what about the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural economy, forgive me, but I do not remember you speaking at the 400-day deadlines, they were not there, I did not hear them speak on the question of the general interest of the agricultural and food economy. These are very important things, because people who have submitted this proposal, and who are obviously going to lecture us about the agricultural economy... I look forward to it because I suspect that this is coming, and they will tell you that obviously I am, or because I am a oppositionist, or because I am a woman, or because I am not as knowledgeable as they are, I do not know about this, because I think that someone who has a tiny common sense of peasants and obviously does not have a view of it, or a training centre on Tápiószentmárton, knows precisely that the 400-day evaluation period cannot be maintained, that the Hungarian agriculture does not only increase its competitiveness, but also reduces it constantly. I note that I read in the small paper of the Chamber of Agriculture yesterday at the meeting of the Gardening Sub-Committee, that, indeed, thanks to the evaluation period in the gardening sector and many other things, it is clear that the competitiveness of the Hungarian gardening sector is constantly decreasing, and that it is almost impossible to maintain it, let alone to increase it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you may have been well-intentioned about the content of the bill, but you must have been mistaken for a giant with the title of the bill. These small proposals, which I say again, are certain that there is a citizen whose life is fundamentally influenced by agricultural chamber matters, obviously affect the life of Congressman Győrffy, but do not increase the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture. So I propose either to give this bill a new title or to withdraw the entire bill and to sit down really, let us start talking about what Congressman James said: digitalization, climate change, educational changes, where, in addition to the quantitative problem, quality issues need to be discussed. Yesterday, for example, it was said at the committee meeting that Hungarian agriculture is no longer facing only quantitative problems, namely that there are few people, but that we are also facing quality problems. If you want to talk about these issues about the competitiveness of the agricultural economy, about the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural economy, I think there are many forums for this, there is debate, there is Committee on Agriculture, there is any forum. But I believe that in this form, this law, as you have thus submitted, cannot be taken seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-27-103	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr. Sándor Farkas asked for the floor. As a member of the government, of course, you will be given the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-27-104	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Two opposition speeches urge me to respond to a few things that are not specifically part of the law, but I also thought that it was not possible to go without saying a word and not always to refer to the law, although I do not like such detours in any respect, but of course it is necessary to respond to this. Congressman Varga has outlined some thoughts on the development of irrigation and the future vision of irrigation. And indeed, we say so, and I think it is absolutely not a disoriented idea of how many millions of people we can produce healthy, safe food for Hungarian agriculture. How to achieve the goal of how to make those twenty... I am braver, I dare to put five million more on it, although it is not a question of bidding, but perhaps from my experience of forty or a few years, I dare say what opportunities are ahead, where we are at certain levels of production, where we are in certain areas. I am sure that we have enormous potential in this, and it is not the politician who speaks of me, but the experience of years in the economy, based on the accumulated information. And in terms of irrigation development, I took the liberty of reacting because I am an irrigation and melioration engineer, so in this respect I might say that my heart is a little bit more attached to this sector. Today indeed 92, according to some calculations, is watering at 98 thousand hectares in Hungary. How much it was in previous decades; rather, I would say how much irrigated land was in the 1970s when the various Tisza II, the Grand Junior and other sewer networks were built. [[15.10]] Unfortunately, these works are largely outdated, destroyed, and elamorized. The renovation and reconstruction of these settlements and furnished areas is inevitable, but let us be honest about this, the change in land ownership conditions that took place under the Compensation Act and the subsequent land law when those board sizes were practically fragmented. Watering can no longer be carried out at that level, which corresponds to the technology at that time. The government has an idea, although this is not only a training course, but I could practically say a plan that the Chamber will launch together with the Chamber Surveys. This is roughly the preparation of about 120 to 130 thousand hectares for irrigation in areas where the minimum cost can be achieved as quickly as possible. We know that these canal networks are partly there, that with the maintenance of these canal networks we can start at relatively low costs, and that the government has an idea that it will continue to support irrigation by a fixed amount of money each year, within a reasonable period of time. I think that, given the climate and weather conditions today, this can provide a certain level of safety, but it is not enough in itself. As a watering expert, I dare say this to you. Watering water alone is not enough, it requires appropriate technologies, suitable varieties, soil tools, much more, and not least the natural precipitation that we would like to obtain in the Carpathian Basin as evenly as possible. But, of course, we have a chance to get involved in this, fortunately, we don't. We may be able to talk about this much more later, but I think these are already facts that we can talk about in terms of watering development. I would like to say a few things to Mrs Vadai about the competitiveness of agriculture. The technological development and development that has started in the sector in the last six to eight years, I dare say this calmly, is a qualitative change that has not been experienced in the past, for 20 to 30 years. What do I mean? You have mentioned it, and President James has also said about digital agriculture, and we can also talk about precision farming, or I can mention robotics here, because more and more examples of this will be implemented in the sector, and this will create a new approach. In itself, the human resources that the sector has, who will go there, and this is already linked to the question of education, in what areas of the profession in schools, what opportunities there are for schooling, it is again a very long question, I do not want to lose myself in detail, but I see in practice that we are now experiencing a very serious technological development in the sector. This is not only in arable crops, but also in livestock and gardening. These are precisely the sectors in which crop production has been given priority during the last EU support cycle during the previous period. And now we have specifically thought, rightly, that we are trying to bring these sectors to a level or to develop them, to increase their effectiveness with different forms of support, such as support in animal husbandry, such as gardening, which, of course, no one is satisfied with, because everyone wants more, but there is a limit that cannot be improved effectively. Last but not least, we are here today with the possibility of manufacturing, food development, which, on the basis of higher added value, could, of course, be another break-out point in this sector. Of course, we know that we want to spend a lot more money on this, but, as my fellow Member Czerván mentioned, negotiations will be another challenge after 2020-21. What we will give priority to then is the idea, but the aim is clearly to increase technologies and efficiency, and the aim is to leave the sector's gate with the highest level of processed products, and to provide as many people as possible with safe food from the sector. I think if we agree on that, the rest is a matter of detail. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's important!]] It is an important detail, but I think that if these first principles can be found in a common voice, then much more should be said about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-27-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't think of myself as listening to these opposition speeches, once I began to cry back Zoltán Gőgös into the opposition lines of Parliament. We have had quite a lot of discussions with him since 2002, but at least he understands certain areas, especially large-scale arable crops and livestock farming. Although we didn't think it was what he represented in this, at least he was able to tell us that area in a credible way. In connection with the opposition speeches we have just heard, we do not want to offend you in your femininity, which you have indicated that we will be insulting you in order to clarify one or two things. In the Committee on Agriculture, three of four opposition representatives were given to Jobbik, one to the LMP. Therefore, it is not currently represented in the Committee on Agriculture by DK, MSZP and Together. [[Gergely Arató: This is what the MSZP representative has been talking about!]] Members with the right to vote, not to vote, but to consult, were subsequently delegated by the right of parliamentary representatives, but Ágnes Vadai has not lived once in the last nearly eight months. He attended only one subcommittee meeting, the content of which he did not like. What is more, when we listened to the number one leaders of the Hungarian Treasury and the Rural Development Secretariat, where the rural development proposal is going, what we are waiting for, what opportunities, and what is the experience so far, the congresswoman said that this was a soft, pointless conversation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention.]] But interestingly, the opposition did not have any questions that the two number one leaders would not have answered. They also said that it was actually very correct information, that they had been given such correct, honest information a long time ago, and that they wanted it to continue. As long as I'm running the Agriculture Committee, that's gonna happen. Every year, but if the opposition has asked for it more often, we have held this meeting, so I cannot appreciate the substantial contribution of Ágnes Vadai [[Gergely Harvesto: Who asked for it?]] because, in fact, none of the agricultural content issues could be meaningfully explained. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvestó: What brings you joy is not an issue!]]
u2018-11-27-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only ask my fellow Member Font for his help at the time, as I did my fellow Member Győrffy. At the very beginning of my speech, I referred to the fact that we would like to review this political agreement, which included a great deal of pressure, but I am not going to discuss it now, especially in view of the fact that there has been a lot going on in the last few months before the Parliament. By the way, this has been raised in the House Committee, specifically with regard to the committee that our representative has also raised. It has received a promise from the persons representing the Fidesz and KDNP fractions present in the House Committee that this agreement will be subject to a comprehensive review. However, this did not happen. I want you to be partners in this. We are very happy to change this committee, and we are available. What you have said about the opposition's presence in the Committee on Agriculture, I must say that I can only confirm what I just said. You know that, in connection with, inter alia, the well law, but also with other legislation, I practically did not take part in the vote yesterday, but as a representative there with the right to consult, I spoke twice specifically about the Land Traffic Act. I'm going to do this the same. So I'm practically taking part in the committee's work, and our faction would like to have a seat as a member in another agreement. But we've already said that, and now I've just confirmed it once more. And to what the Secretary of State has said, I would like to say that I am pleased that there are such plans to increase the size and area of irrigated land. Technically, it would be about the 200,000 hectares of the current number and the number you've planned, which was still around the change of regime, but we'd like to see a trace of that. So you said you needed to isolate resources for that. Indeed. If funds are available, this would actually mean increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural economy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[15.20]]
u2018-11-27-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask you that someone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak within a two-minute time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Would anyone else like to speak in a normal time frame? (No applicants.) I don't see a candidate like that. The general debate, since no one has submitted any further, is closed. I will ask President Balázs Győrffy to respond. [[Balázs Győrffy: Yes.]] I give you the floor.
u2018-11-27-110	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank my fellow Member, Czerván, for his positive, supportive thoughts. I trust that we will be able to obtain the support from the other groups for the amendment tabled. I would answer my colleague Steinmetz first. It's not the first time we've talked about hunting, because before we met in Parliament, if I remember correctly, we had a chance to meet in person on a pheasant hunt. I would like to assure you that it is only possible to modify the territorial boundary only if there is full agreement, so that all stakeholders agree. If there are four or five players and only one of them does not agree to the amendment, then the amendment will not happen. As far as the Marcal River is concerned, I hope you didn't get that kind of signal in relation to my own village, because I understand everything's fine there. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: No.]] Thank you. With regard to the suspension, I fully agree. There were huge problems. I have recently had the pleasure of taking part in such a complaint as a Hearing Officer, that the hunting grounds have been posted, and that the opposing party ripped off the City Council of X two days before the expiry, where it should be suspended, from one of its billboards. Otherwise, it is often suggested that the authorities should keep it in a confined place, in some kind of glass cage, or guarded, for God's sakes. Maybe it's a lot easier if we move towards digitalization. I think that there is no conflicting party in relation to the Wildlife Damage Fund, and let me say this to my fellow Member Varga. The farmer also has an interest in not having to put the money that has already been paid into the game damage fund. Because in case there's a game damage that the farmer would pay in August, but if he can't deduct it from the amount he has to put into the game damage fund in the autumn period, then he'll simply tell the farmer that I won't pay it, only in November, because it means a double burden for me. And it's good for the farmer to be able to deduct that amount, because then he might get it already in August. I think it's good for both the farmer and the farmer. My fellow Member, Mr Steinmetz, made a reference to hunting under limited visibility. I think he might have been thinking about the gun lamp, but it wasn't clear to me. I think the regulations on the gun lamp are clearly going in the right direction and giving us the right rigour. With regard to areas of special purpose, which we are talking about here, it is important to know that I am not up to date on this, at least 50 percent, and even without exception, but in my knowledge, the proportion of public territory is always above 50 percent. So, in a legal sense, it would have been possible, without this amendment, at the Landowner's meeting, for the majority state owner to cancel the pre-lease. In the current legislation, if 50 per cent of the gross area plus 1 hectare decides to abolish the pre-lease right, then this has been possible so far. However, now quite simply, since this right is included in the case of a person as owner of the Hungarian State, we are speeding up the procedure, as we do not have to spend time with it, so it can be terminated more quickly if the intention is to resign, if not, then it is completely pointless to argue about it. To my fellow Member, Mr Varga, I would like to say that there are four opposition representatives on the Committee on Agriculture. As far as I know, the Fidesz faction didn't tell me how these four members should be divided. For my part, I still do not want to interfere with this, and I think that this is the opposition's own internal concern. If it's as diverse as possible, of course, we're just happy about it. I support you, but I can assure you of my support in principle. With regard to the damage caused by protected animals, of course, I agree very much if we say that we should try to support farmers and not impose sanctions on them to protect a protected value, whether it is a plant or an animal. But we're talking about what happens if there's any damage, because someone has to pay for it. And I think that if it is in the public interest to protect a natural value, then the damage caused by it must also be reimbursed with public money and not imposed on a farmer to bear it. My colleague Agnes Vadai is not here. Listening to my fellow Member, Agnes Vadai, I thought of a case where three people were blindfolded, who had never seen an elephant, and one of them was placed to his trunk, the other to his side, and the third to his feet. And when they're asked in a locked room what an elephant is, one firmly states that it's like a tree, the other says it's like a wall, and the third says it's like a rope, and they're convinced they're right. Madam Congresswoman is also very determined to say something about something that she has only partial concepts of, but at least she is confident in doing so. With regard to CAP support, he said that without it Hungarian agriculture is not competitive. Yes, but this is not a Hungarian peculiarity, but a European average situation, which has a basis, and that is that European producers are subject to strict standards that, if they are observed, they simply cannot be competitive on the world market. That is why we have the common agricultural policy, but in return we are surrounded by the world's strictest food safety environment and system of rules. I do not know why Hungarian farmers should be responsible for this. I am pleased, by the way, that the Congresswoman has a sense of lack of what is lacking in this legislation. You could have submitted yourself an amendment quite calmly. But let me say that I also have a feeling of absence, because DK will only hold a press conference when they report the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, but they will never stand up to the press when it turns out they're talking baseless nonsense and they're accusing us of all kinds of fabricated bullshit. I'll ask you once in a while, you don't need it after each and every one, unless you get five or six of them together, you'll just have to hold a press conference. But let me put that feeling of absence in front of you. How much performance has increased in eight years when you were on the government, and how much has the competitiveness and performance of agriculture increased over the last eight years, well, they can be measured by numbers. I think that it is foolish to argue in these, and I can simply recommend that these numbers be compared, and I think that this debate will be resolved. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention, and I would ask your fellow Members to respond. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-111	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the National Council for Communications and Information Technology will follow until closure. Presentation by Mr Erik Bánki, Member Fidesz T/3632. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you is a very short and very simple, easy-to-understand proposal, since it is all about the fact that the National Communications and Informatics Council, which has worked so far, has only been regulated by the Media Act and has been subject to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, it will now be a separate council and will receive additional tasks compared to its previous tasks. Consider how this counsel worked under the current regulations. As I said, the media law regulated its operation, since it was under the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority also ensured its budgetary operation and the assembly of the Board. The Media Authority also carried out secretarial tasks, so in this way we can say that in practice this panel of five members was operating under the shadow of the Media Authority and under its supervision, the president and vice-president of which were appointed by the Prime Minister as proposed and earlier, but two members of the members have so far been delegated by the Media Council and two members by the Academy of Sciences. His tasks were to give an opinion on the government's strategic decisions, guidelines and proposals on IT communications and the media area, and on the Hungarian position to be taken at international meetings. [[15.30]] In addition, at the request of the Government or the Prime Minister, it shall examine the procurement, projects, applications and compliance of the government or of a minister, of a body under the control of the government in the field of communications and IT. According to the bill, which lies before you, ladies and gentlemen, the Council would be given additional tasks in addition to the existing tasks. To be specific, one of its other tasks is to examine not only the government's IT and communications activities, but also the development plans and ideas that relate to the later period and to give the government a professional opinion on this. The change in regulation regarding its establishment and operation is that it is excluded from the scope of the media law and is regulated by a separate law and its organisational structure by adopting the law before you. If the bill is adopted, the Prime Minister will appoint the President, Deputy President and Members of the National Communications and Informatics Council. You will be able to operate your organisation independently, work with a separate budget, the detailed regulation of which will be governed by a government regulation in the form of an implementing regulation. So, to sum up the substance of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, I propose and ask you to support the adoption of this proposal, because the National Communications and Information Council, as it has done so far, will continue to give basic opinions on the operation of the government. There are so many changes that you will do so now, not within the framework of the media authority, but as an independent organization. Thus, the change in substance is only autonomy, and it is changed that not only its leader and deputy, but also its members, will be appointed and acquitted by the Prime Minister. Thank you very much for your attention and once again for supporting the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-27-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think we can find out, and everyone agrees that digitalization, the digital world, is constantly changing our everyday lives, changing our circumstances. The use and proper use of infocommunication technologies and services is now a key factor in everyday life and in almost all sectors of the economy, without which operational efficiency and competitiveness can no longer be ensured. For the development of valuable technologies, modern and efficient IT solutions, it is essential that the government's work is supported by an organisation with sufficient experience and a comprehensive approach in the field of information technology. The aim of the bill, as has already been said, is to redefine the operation and tasks of the Government's IT, communications opinion and advisory body, the National Communications and Information Council. Dear Parliament, The government wants to place great emphasis on the creation of a digital state, so that information between citizens, businesses and the state and the public bodies can be transmitted electronically, thereby accelerating administration, guaranteeing the authenticity of data and records. To this end, in view of the growing number of public IT purchases, it is necessary for experts to examine the connection of procurement to public IT systems and their relevance to the implementation goal, taking into account the latest digital technologies and innovative tools. In order to achieve all these efforts, the Government supports the fact that the National Communications and Informatics Council, as an organization with sufficient experience and a comprehensive approach in the field of information technology, has already been effective in supporting the Government's work, as part of the government, to play a more prominent role in decision-making processes and their preparation. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the debate and in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, One of the main tasks of the National Communications and Information Council is to give an opinion to the government on the programme of the development of the information society, strategic decisions in the field of information technology, communications and media, the definition of the direction of research and development, and drafts, proposals for government decrees, ministerial decrees for the government, and to examine applications, projects, procurement and compliance of public and administrative bodies for information communication on the basis of economic aspects. The current functioning, tasks, powers and core activities of the National Communications and Information Council are covered by the 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. The National Communications and Informatics Council is defined by law. The primary purpose of the Council's establishment has been, and has been, to rely on the position and expertise of recognised experts from all areas of communication and information technology. Dear fellow Members, According to the bill before you, the National Communications and Informatics Council will be given a new, extended role, in which it will be responsible, inter alia, for the opinion of government communications and IT investments, and to refer the appointment of the President, Vice-President and Members of the NHIT to the Prime Minister. Since the National Communications and Informatics Council is an advisory and advisory body of the Government, it is appropriate for the Government to carry out its operation, its members and its financing. According to the bill, the secretariat will operate the organization of the National Communications and Information Council, and its future functioning and organisational structure will be determined by the government through a separate regulation. Dear Parliament, With the bill, the Government will extend the tasks of the National Communications and Informatics Council, thereby making the operation of the organisation more efficient, so I ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-27-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that, indeed, as we have heard from our fellow Member, the rapporteur, it is an easy-to-understand bill. I mean, if, let's just say, I'm gonna skip the operative's paragraphs, let's just say they're made up of three substantive paragraphs or a fourth, which is more likely to repeal certain conflict of interest rules of the media law. So, if I had to explain this on Friday at my forum in the Sopron region what this law is about, then I would refer back to my youth, when, at the sopronbánfalva farewell, I had three sticks to shoot off the little sign that said that it was 1. § 2 the Prime Minister is always right; § if the Prime Minister is not right and he has not appointed someone, then automatically it is Article 1. § takes effect. No, but the joke is set aside. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was good.]] , as I mentioned, the 4th. § aims to remove the rules of conflict of interest of the Media Council, a goal to be fully supported. Indeed, there will be experts of high expertise who will be able to be members of this National Communications and Informatics Council, who have already worked well. At the same time, it is quite clear that the points made by the authors, such as those concerning digitalisation or the importance of infocommunication, are clearly not challenged. However, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, the Honourable Parliament should now issue a blank cheque of a kind, since a separate government decree would regulate the details of the whole, which in the current system, especially with regard to the situation of the media, raises certain concerns for a normally-thinking opposition politician in this case as well. Which, in our opinion, is absolutely right. Obviously, these will be mainly information-communication procurements that will take part in the evaluation of this body. [[15.40]] This is a bill which, again, I think, comes before this House in the form of a motion from individual representatives, so that no kind of ministerial consultation, no kind of social debate will prevent it. They put three paragraphs in front of us, and they expect us to say yes after a few completely empty sentences. So I think that this is a violation of the authority of the Parliament in particular, because it cannot be expected of us that in a situation where public media from the 90 billion Hungarian taxpayers in the morning, noon and evening lies about opposition parties, they present to us a bill involving the media, which is practically completely empty in the form that lies before us. On the legal and other details of this whole matter, my honourable fellow Member, Andrea Varga-Damm, will continue to express the opinion of the Jobbik faction. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am looking at the Member now, because there has been no prior notification, so obviously the Congresswoman wishes to speak in the normal time frame, not as a lead speaker. Excuse me, but I don't have a chance, it wasn't announced in advance; if it is, it is possible, but unfortunately it wasn't, so the congresswoman can speak in a normal time frame. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-27-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. As an opposition representative, I examined the case, with the help of experts, how and in what composition the National Communications and Information Council has worked since its existence. It was established in 1996 by a government decision. Happy times of peace let me tell you what kind of composition it was, it's quite shocking to say this in today's context. He had 11 members, and three out of the 11 members were delegated by the government. 8 Moreover, he was a specialist, not specifically suggested that the government also delegate experts, but professional organizations delegated the remaining 8 members. The ORTT has delegated three members, one of which is delegated by the Informatics Stakeholder Forum, and the MTESZ have joint delegation and delegation of the MTA, so the then government decision presents a world that was really built on the fact that professional organisations express professional opinions on a specific issue, and otherwise they are majority in the specific body; the government also delegates 3 members of the 11th floor, but accepts the opinion of professional organisations. Since 2010, this has been a significantly different way, and in 2010 it has changed under your governance. This council has five members, as the rapporteur said, the President and the Vice-President are appointed by the Prime Minister, and two members by the Media Council and one by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In fact, the proposal that we have just put forward is that, of course, a separate regulation is about the appointment of everyone by the Prime Minister. If you ask me that my faith in the professionalism of the members appointed by the Prime Minister or of the member appointed by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is stronger, then forgive me, but my faith in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is stronger. So as an opposition representative, I think that's all I can look at. The question that has been raised before me quite rightly is that this is so important in relation to the investments being made or the opinion of the expected purchases; it is probably so, because I say that we have not seen value-based proposals here today either, but interest-based ones, so this is probably the decisive one in this respect. So I think that, as an opposition representative, this proposal, although of limited scope, is very visible but clearly unsupportable, since any such entitlement to delegation is installed with the Prime Minister, which cannot be agreed on our part. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-11-27-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, leader of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. Of course, this type of appointing practice is not possible in democratic countries, in the sense that opposition parties do not even have a place in such a body, nor do they listen to their views. So with the whole story, it's really the basic framework, it's that we exist in a media environment, in which opposition parties are virtually mute when there's something about them, it's mostly personal, or it's a lie. Therefore, in such an environment, the further strengthening of the Prime Minister's appointment practices does not in any way give any confidence. We believe that the vast amount of money that goes to public television, as I would add, was also indicated in the Sargentini report, and that the European Parliament and the OSCE also examined the consequences of the Hungarian elections, and, among other things, did not consider Hungarian elections free in April 2018 due to the Hungarian media relations and the so-called public media relations. When you keep suggesting that it is the voter's confidence, I would like to point out that we have evidence of the European scene that proves the opposite. The proposal is not supported. Thank you.
u2018-11-27-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] If you do not wish to make use of this, I will give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, from the Jobbik Group, who has indicated his intention to speak in writing. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, I will not be as polite as my fellow Members. Of course, I will not say exactly what words appeared in my mind when I read this proposal, because it would indeed not tolerate printing ink, but what I can say is that this proposal is unacceptable in a state of law called democratic. I cannot imagine that one morning our fellow Member, Erik Bánki, would have thought that he would present such a proposal. One day, we will probably find out why you have to atone for the fact that after the horror of the housing savings bank, we hope that this penance period will end, and I do not think that any professional, human and representative of our fellow Member Bánki has anything to do with this proposal. This proposal was prepared for the Prime Minister's order, and it is okay if our fellow Member does not acknowledge it in life, and we do not expect it from him, and we know it anyway. I could say that as a politician, the profession will also come, and now the politician will speak that, my dear Prime Minister, if you need a home counseling company on the media issue, then you should pay for it. Here's what you're gonna pay them for. You can sit with them every two days, no matter how many days, but don't charge the state budget by playing a private information media council. It's nothing but play. Why do I say this is a game? The operation of this institution so far, we all know, has been mentioned earlier by our colleagues, CLXXXV 2010. It was regulated by law, practically by the media law, perfectly created in the 15th century. Starting with Section 5 of this article, I am amazed at the fact that this proposal consists of six paragraphs, of which one is the entry into force, the other is the repealing, and three are the only five sentences of three paragraphs. I'm sorry, I can't imagine there's a single person from the Fidesz-KDNP fraction and from the government who thought it would go through here without a word from the opposition. [[15.50]] I don't think that's what you guys thought for a second. In fact, I really think they thought that, well, I don't like it here, there's gonna be a few unsearched words. We will, of course, preserve the authority of this House, and there are no sentences that would otherwise be justified for such a proposal. We would be honoured to say explicitly that they cannot be involved in this proposal, although they will vote for it. My fellow Members have just spoken about the fact that it is better for a council to be involved in the opinion on the likely purchases of 80 billion, although we do not yet know the powers of this future council, but if we assume the powers of the original council, it was indeed the opinion of the investments, and it was in no way possible to obtain more serious acquisitions without the approval of the council. After the members of the council are appointed by the Prime Minister, we do not know for how long, we do not know who to be members of this council, because from the original law at least we knew that the members of this council had to have at least five years of professional experience. As was the last regulation, 2 out of 5 members of the Media Council and one member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences could be nominated. The cleaning lady may now be a member of this serious organisation, and the entire kinship of Prime Minister may be elected to this council, since we have no idea how the future government decree will regulate this. It was very important in the old regulation that only these members were subject to the laws. This was explicitly stated in the media law, and even that they were not to be ordered. Well, it's just like the status of a Member of Parliament, they weren't to be ordered, they weren't to function at someone's convenience. They couldn't have done anything to get them to do something against their principles. It was a four-year assignment. Today, we don't know how many years or how long they'll be assigned to the government decree. What was very important was that their salary was also regulated. How much will these people make? $500,000 or $5 million a month? Although in recent years, as we can see, some people in a tight circle have a salary of 5 million. The original media legislation is 120, 121 and 122. Its sections perfectly defined the powers, legal status, appointment time, professional conditions, the infrastructure that they were entitled to, and what was really very important: we knew why they were there. In the last eight years, I have not heard any pro-government criticisms about whether this council did not function in accordance with the spirit of the law. We have not heard that this council, in any of its activities, has been an obstacle to any kind of government activity needed in the media. We have not heard of any members who might have prevented any progress in order to preserve their credibility, the introduction of something new. My fellow Members, as I have just said, think in good faith of the procurements, that they might prefer to use people from certain Prime Minister's circles to do so. I see this legislative proposal in a much more serious and larger dimension. The birth of this legislation is fully linked to the laws which have been put forward in recent months with a completely different content and purpose. This is that the government, especially Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, wants to see only systems around it where everything and everyone is controlled by themselves, so that if the majority of the government is lost in a next election, it can create positions through the army, the Media Inspector's Council, not just economically, but in all areas. That's the goal of every proposal. If we do nothing but put these proposals side by side and look at the talents of task systems, appointment opportunities, people potentially involved in the situation, and how a government can monitor lost systems after its own position, it can paralyze any future government through these rules, through these appointments, through these positions. I will have another speech on the defence issue today, and I will show it there from that aspect, from the point of view of how all this relates to the same intention. I am quite confident that although the governing parties will vote for this, but I am sure that when they realise the danger of all this, to which they are adding their votes, they will say themselves that this is no longer the case. They're just not there yet because they don't feel that these kinds of regulations, these new systems, are a threat to the democratic institution of the country. So this new advisory body, as we have said recently, has lost its independence, this Communications and Information Council is not the council that is included in the media law, nor will it ever be that council in life. This council is the Prime Minister's personal advisory team, preventing this proposal from ever doing its job taking into account international standards, the guarantees set out in the media law. In this way, not only can the opposition representative support this with his vote, but also the pro-government representatives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik, as rapporteur, to say the closing word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was not surprised by the position and opinion of the opposition groups, as we have become accustomed to almost no matter what bill we are discussing before this House, the opposition sees in everything the government's excessive dominance, the position of any kind of background alliances and other similar horror stories. In this case, too, that is practically the case. I started my expozee by saying that it was a very simple and very short, clear bill. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to point 1 of this article. Section 3. The National Communications and Informatics Council is an advisory body of the Government in IT and communications matters. Nothing more. So the suggestions and assumptions that end up as my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm said that international standards do not comply in any form and in no way on the media front, it is no wonder that the bill itself excludes this organization from the scope of the media law and puts it in a completely independent status, where it has nothing to do and will have nothing to do with it but to prepare the government's IT investments and developments. This is exactly the additional task that Mr Péter Cseresnyés spoke about, which the government also supports. So the aim here is to bring professionals and knowledge that can respond to the constant changes in today's world, to the innovation, to the knowledge that is needed in this market to maintain competitiveness and to further improve it, to do so and to add it to the effectiveness of government work. [[16.00]] László Varga, in the suggestion of my fellow Members, said that for him the delegation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is much more professional than a government delegate. I would argue with this because the government has demonstrated in many areas that it has experts, employees and employees involved in government work, officials who are able to prepare legislative proposals and to create a strategy that has already led to the recognition of European organisations and credit rating agencies at international level. I am thinking, in particular, of the Ministry of Finance, which has put together a new tax package and launched an economic development programme that, although attacked on numerous fronts in the early 2010s, is now acknowledged by all relevant market analysts that Hungary has made a successful economic turn, and that it has succeeded in putting a country in bankruptcy into a dynamic and sustainable growth path over the years, in the face of impossible circumstances. So I wouldn't be biased at this level. Zsolt Gréczy said that this is not a democratic solution. Once again, we are talking about an advisory and opinion society operating alongside the government. In this case, I think it is perfectly natural for the government or the Prime Minister to appoint its members, its president, its vice-president and other members, and that is why it was important to remove it from the scope of the media law, so that we do not make it appear by chance that it would be subject to such close government supervision as a council under the media law. I thank my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea, very much for your concern. I would like to reassure you that I am not under any punishment, so I do not consider it to be the submission of the legislation on housing savings banks or this. I claim, and at any professional forum, I am able to defend every single point of the bill on housing savings banks, as I am convinced that there are far better forms of pre-saving, and on the basis of the analysis, I strongly believe that the kind of attitude that most of the housing savings banks have done in managing citizens' payments has not reached the minimum level of professionalism that would be expected of such an organisation. And to suggest that if the Prime Minister sets up a private information media advisory body, he should do so with his own money, I think that we are not talking here about the Prime Minister's advisory body, but, as the law says, we are talking about the government's advisory body, and in this sense, it is perfectly normal for the government to determine the sources of this operation, the sources of this council's operation, as well as the issues related to its organisation. I therefore believe that we are making a good decision by adopting this bill and asking my fellow Members to support it in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-127	Thank you very much for the Member's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits will follow. Presentation by Máté Kocsis, Erik Bánki and Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz, Members T/3634. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On this occasion, too, we are discussing a relatively short but more significant bill here in this House, and I ask my fellow Members to really ignore the political differences that exist between the factions in Parliament, and really look at this proposal as a proposal for athletes and a proposal for coaches who have achieved results not only with hard work, amazing performance, many resignations and some luck in some places, but also with Hungarians living in Hungary, Hungary and the Carpathian Basin, but also with the whole world raising their heads. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] During the Olympic Games Hungary won 168 gold medals, 148 silver medals and 170 bronze medals, and I would not even be able to list those contestants who raised Olympic points with Olympic rankings during these noble competitions. Hungary is among the ten most successful countries in the world, thanks to the performance of over a hundred years, in terms of the acquisition of Olympic gold medals and Olympic medals. We can say for ourselves that Hungary alone has won more Olympic gold medals than 160 other countries in the world combined. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an achievement before which any politician must lift a hat. Anyone who has ever played sports, either on an amateur level, but who has played sports on a competitive level, even if he wasn't a top athlete, could have seen exactly what kind of resignation he had, how hard work it would take, how hard a hard time it would have to happen, how much an athlete would have to experience to achieve such results, and who, as a champion, has ever been in a sports facility or even in front of a TV screen or a computer, would know exactly how my back feels when our athletes are standing on the podium after a race, any degree, but I don't think it can be compared to anything when the Hymnuus is played by a Hungarian racer or a Hungarian team. Then all 15 million Hungarians think that this is a joint success for all of us, that we are involved in all of this. In order to be part of this and to be part of it as much as possible, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this bill, which is now before you. This bill is all about the fact that I have to add to it so far, regardless of the governments, if I consider the last 15 years here to make a generous support system fairer, the Olympic benefit system which the Hungarian governments have once again confirmed and supported without exception. I am very pleased that there was a unified view that athletes and coaches who achieved these excellent results deserve that, after the end of their sports career, athletes should receive an Olympic annuity if they were 35 years of age, and that this should be recognised by the Hungarian state, the Hungarian budget and, together with the Hungarian society for the vast amount of work and the wonderful results they have achieved. I think that this bill, by adopting it, will make this a more fairer system, which I would like once again to strengthen, which is a generous and international system, compared to the previous regulation, when an athlete who has won more medals, more gold medals, silver medals or bronze medals in his own sport has not received the same award for every medal. If we are talking about specifics, an athlete who wrote a gold medal could not receive more benefits than the prize he received for the first gold medal; not to mention that if he had won silver and bronze medals, because he was able to achieve such an excellent performance, the third, so that after the bronze medal he did not receive any benefits at all. [[16.10]] Coaches can't say that the system was fair, because the coaches whose students obtained more medals, more gold medals, silver medals, or bronze medals received 50 percent of the money compared to the sportsmen's allowance, but only after one medal, after a gold medal, could receive this stipend. Thank God, Hungarian sports history can present a number of successful master coaches whose students have been able to obtain many gold medals, silver medals and bronze medals in their own sport, so we believe that these successful coaches also deserve to receive the recognition and support provided by the Olympic Prize Act, not only for a single coin, but also for all coins. So, if this bill is adopted by this House, fellow Members, then all athletes will, after all the coins, after the gold, silver and bronze coins, in each case, receive all the stipends they would normally receive for those medals obtained. We cannot imagine a fairer distribution system, and I think that the Hungarian economy is in a state now, the performance of the Hungarian economy has reached the level where the additional revenues that this outstanding economic growth of 5 per cent in the last quarter can produce as an increase in performance, with this additional revenue the budgetary cover needed to finance this just distribution system can be guaranteed. To tell you about the numbers, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2019 budget, a little over HUF 1.9 billion is planned for the payment of the Olympic allowance and annuity. With this new and otherwise fairer system, the demand for funds will be slightly over HUF 3.6 billion. Once again, from the budgetary reserve, this resource gap can be covered without problems, so the adoption of this bill does not entail any risk at budgetary level. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this proposal, regardless of politics, taking into account the outstanding achievements of Hungarian sports and the incredible performance of Hungarian athletes, because with the medals listed above, Hungarian athletes have not only achieved with gold, silver and bronze medals that Hungary is still among the ten most effective countries in the world, but that Hungary is the second most effective Olympic sport nation in the world. We can all really be proud of that. That is why I am asking you to support this bill and thus a fairer distribution system in the field of Olympic benefits. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-129	Thank you, Congressman. I, too, welcome my fellow Members and now give the floor to Mrs Tünde Szabó, State Secretary, on behalf of the Government.
u2018-11-27-130	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, T/3634 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport Amendment of the rules of the Olympic allowance. As we know, the Olympic and Paralympic games are accompanied by increased attention throughout the country and throughout the world, with millions of people around the world following sports events. The national flag of the Olympic medalists, the national anthem of the winning athlete in all countries of the world, proclaims the superhuman achievement that can be found behind the medals. Surely we can say that the positive impact of the glory of athletes on society is invaluable. In the history of the Olympics, together with the results of the Olympic art competitions, Hungary's athletes won 177 gold, 151 silver and 174 bronze medals. Based on the results achieved in Hungary, the Helsinki Olympics of 52 are the most successful, with 42 medals born on this game, 16 gold medals, 10 silver and 16 bronze medals won by our athletes. With this role, the Hungarians came to the third place of the medal table, so it is a fantastic success, as Mr. Based on the medals obtained, among the most successful sports in the summer Olympics is the fencing sport with a total of 87 medals, followed by our kayak-kenu sport with 80 coins, and then swimming with 73 medals. Among the winter Olympic sports, figure skating is the most successful Hungarian sport in terms of the number of medals, but our short-track speed skaters also demonstrated during their Phjonghchang triumph that there is a bright future ahead of this sport and discipline. Olympic participation, honest standing, position or victory not only fills the athlete, but also the whole country, including the nation of the athlete. We are well aware that the Olympics and athletes who become Olympic legends have an extremely stimulating influence on society, the country's sports life, as hundreds of children, even thousands, are in the mood for sport, a sport, adults, older people also start to play sports and live a rich lifestyle. In April 1997 the National Assembly decided to introduce the Olympic allowance as a state benefit. The main aim of the institution of the Olympic allowance is to show recognition and appreciation of athletes achieving outstanding sports results. The state wishes to repay in part the long-term work of athletes and trainers assisting them with the Olympic allowance, the pride and joy of the whole country, by providing them with an amount corresponding to the average wage and salary income for the rest of their lives. In addition, the Olympic allowance tries to help with possible difficulties arising from the fact that the athlete spent most of his energy and time on sports instead of his professional development in his youth and youth. In addition, it should be borne in mind that athletes will even give up a foreign professional with outstanding financial security in order to participate in the Olympics. In these cases, too, there is a positive impact of the Olympic allowance, as athletes can expect to have a partial livelihood for the rest of their lives if they retire. The tasks related to the establishment and payment of the Olympic allowance shall be carried out by the Secretary of State for Sport of the Ministry of Human Resources. Under the Personal Income Tax Act, the Olympic allowance is a tax-free benefit. During the 20 years since the introduction of the Olympic allowance, the rules of the Olympic allowance have been amended several times, with, for example, the extension of the circle of beneficiaries of the benefit to medalists and coaches. The scope of sports events that qualify for Olympic benefits, such as the paralympics and the deafly lympics, has been added, and the amount of the allowance has also been determined according to the number of gold medals. In addition, the institution of the lack of merit for the Olympic allowance has been introduced, as a result of which an Olympic allowance cannot be granted to those who have a criminal record or are subject to a trial. According to all these laws, some 900 people today receive an Olympic allowance under the title of athletes, widows, or coaches. The Parliament last amended the conditions for entitlement to annuity in 2011. Among other things, sports professional requirements and conditions have been established that must apply to all sports outcomes qualifying for annuity, since all athletes receive an Olympic allowance in the same way, regardless of which sporting event, Olympics, Paralympics, Deaf Lympics or chess Olympics they obtained their entitlement to an allowance. It cannot be emphasized enough that behind each Olympic, Paralympic, Deaflympian, or chess Olympic medal, superhuman performance exists, as athletes and professionals work behind each medal, even with decades of work. There is no difference between what kind of sport, individual or team sport the medals were acquired, since each result involves the same number of young people who chose national pride and sport. The current rules in force contain adverse provisions, as we have heard from the Member of the Olympic medalists who have won more than one medal for our country, regardless of whether it is gold, silver or bronze medals. According to this rule, multiple gold medalists receive 20% of the Olympic prize for the first gold medal, and after the other gold medals, silver and bronze medals of the champions are not taken into account at all. And our medalists with more silver and bronze medals will receive and receive only one medal. This situation is dealt with by this amendment, which fully appreciates each medal by giving our multiple Olympic medalists the full amount of the medal fee for each medal, recognising the exceptional performance of sportsmen behind all medals and proclaiming their positive impact on the nation. In addition to ensuring the life-long financial security and appreciation of multiple medalists, the amendment also gives us the opportunity to give the results even more appreciation and thus to give Olympic benefits for each medal. [[16.20]] The bill also provides that the Minister responsible for sport policy, instead of the official procedure for the application to date, must establish the entitlement to the allowance and the allowance on his own initiative, on the basis of an administrative procedure based on his records, and ensure that it is paid on a monthly basis. Overall, the bill provides a fairer regulation than the current legislation, in order to appreciate multiple Olympic, Paralympic, Deaflympian and chessloimpian medalists and professionals who prepare them, in return for the many powerful and many years of superhuman work and efforts that have made our country's fame and aging through their sports success. Accordingly, the Government supports the amendment proposal, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-131	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Robert Simon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-27-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's athletes have already participated in the first summer Olympic Games in Athens in 1896, and then almost all the summer Olympics and all the winter Olympics have started. Perhaps not everyone knows, so I mention that Hungary was not invited to the 1920 Summer Olympic Games because it was among the losers of the First World War, even though this would have been the Hungarian Olympics, because Budapest won the right to direct, but due to the defeat of war, the law later passed to Antwerp. Thanks to Dr. Ferenc Kemény, Hungary was already actively involved in the establishment of the International Olympic Committee, the NOB in 1894, and the Hungarian Olympic Committee was established a year and a half later, on 19 December 1895. As the contestants of our country have said, but I repeat in the summer and winter Olympics, including art competitions, so far they have won 177 gold medals, 151 silver medals and 174 bronze medals, and 30 gold medals, 41 silver medals and 55 bronze medals in the paralymies. With his medals won in the summer Olympics, Hungary is the most effective nation that has not yet organized an Olympics. I trust that, even in our lives, Hungary will also have an Olympics. Ladies and gentlemen, Of our athletes, I now mention only the names of some of our excellence without the need for completeness. First, Aladáre Gerevich, who participated in six Olympics in fencing and won 7 gold medals and 1 silver and 1 bronze medal, is our most successful Hungarian Olympic player; Krisztina Egerszegi, the most successful individual female swimmer of all time in the history of the summer Olympics, who won all his coins in 5 gold, 1 silver and 1 bronze medals in individual competitions; at the winter Olympic Games in Phjonghcsang in 2018, our country won the first gold medal in the history of our country, in short-track quick skating, the members of our team who won 2 gold medals, 2 silver medals and 4 bronze medals. Ladies and gentlemen, The Olympic annuity awarded to our Olympic medalists and their training coaches is a law born in 2004. The purpose of the bill that we are discussing now is to make the aid system fairer. According to the bill, all Olympic gold medals receive the same amount of annuity for former and current class. Contrary to current rules, when there is much less money for the rest after the first gold, this means that, for example, a three-time Olympic winner will receive three times as much money as a single gold medal, silver and bronze medals will qualify for 60 percent and 40 percent respectively. Because every gold medal you get is worth the same, because there is a huge achievement behind it, which, of course, must also be said about silver and bronze coins. The proposal would also give even more recognition to the work of coaches by qualifying for an Olympic allowance after all the medals in respect of which the athlete nominated him as his trainer. Hungary is one of the ten most successful nations at the five-ring games, and we are among the world's top in terms of population. Ladies and gentlemen, Our country's economic situation now provides an opportunity for our Olympic medalists to receive greater benefits. Let us give this recognition to our excellence. As the lead speaker of Fidesz, I am expressing that our group supports the bill, and I am confident that the representatives of the other parliamentary parties will support the amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-133	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Adam Steinmetz, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group, who will give his speech on the platform.
u2018-11-27-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in front of us in relation to Olympic benefits, I would like to say that there will not be a great debate between us. On the contrary, I would like to thank the authors, namely Máté Kocsis, Erik Bánki and Gergely Gulyás Bánki, as well as the Hungarian citizens who pay taxes, for allowing our leading athletes who have won the Olympics to receive medals for many years, after their 35th birthday, and now this amendment will also make and ensure what we Olympics or myself cannot speak about, because I am a single Olympic champion, I am not affected by this amendment, and I will probably never be able to repeat it again. [[Dr. Zsolt Gréczy: Nana! Defiance.]] But I'm not gonna rule that out. Seriously speaking, it is true, and it was said in the debate that a five-time Olympic champion had received as many benefits as two single Olympic champions each month. I think that this is a situation that is worth paying attention to and remedying, and I am particularly glad that there was a reception for this, because my fellow Olympics were happy to have such an opportunity at all. They didn't want to be insatiable to me, and I don't know, I'm assuming that they didn't make this request to amend this legislation. And successful and successful athletes rightly make a name for the country, and Hungarian society is proud of them for a reason. The Hungarian people recognize the outstanding sports performance, and many of them regard our top athletes as role models. If anyone is, then I think that Mrs Tünde Szabó, and I myself, know how hard it is to get to an Olympics and get medals there, finish in a beating place, stand on the podium after the event. I would like to say that this is becoming more and more difficult; competition is increasing, competition is increasing, and we have to be on top of it for many years or even decades, so to speak, and to be in peak shape for someone to even get out to such a competition or to be permanent there. [[16.30]] I would also like to mention that it is very difficult to learn a profession, get a degree or work, run a business, and that is why it is very helpful. These years, these internships or degrees, know-how, most of our athletes spend their whole lives on the sports field or, where appropriate, in the pool. So from this point of view, they are at a disadvantage to the rest of society. I am also pleased that, according to the bill, not only the medalists, but also their coaches and, in the event of their death, their widows are entitled to a cumulative allowance, as it is an individual or team sport, without a good coach and a good crew, they can no longer be won. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of Parliament, my fellow Members, to the fact that not all top athletes have had the opportunity to win medals in the Olympics, because we have athletes who did not have an Olympic sport when they were successful. I would like to give an example here to István Jóny, who has won the world championship medal in table tennis four times, and Tibor Klampár, who has won the world's gold medal twice, and they have brought glory to Hungary, and we should be proud of them, too. But I will go further, and I would like us to think of the outstanding results of the European Championsships and World Cups in the future, who also have not been given an Olympic medal. Although I know very well that the Olympics in Hungary have a special prestige, the perception of society is very different from that of a European championship or a world championship, but this does not necessarily mean a minor sporting activity, as their performance is of the same value as our Olympics. There are a number of examples: we don't have to go too far, we have southern neighbours, Serbia, Croatia or, where appropriate, a little further away, but not so far from Montenegro, where, in particular, I know that an acquired European championship or a World Championship medal among water polo players will result in an annuity. Of course, we are aware that the budget's burden-bearing capacity is finite, but we are also aware that Hungary has a sports-loving government at the moment, so on this basis I am very optimistic that you will listen to this, consider it, and I hope that in the future also athletes who are now missing this circle will receive social recognition, which will otherwise be achieved in terms of financial compensation, in the form of a fee. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-27-135	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-27-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I can't really say a new one, as Erik Bánki, as rapporteur, State Secretary, but also my fellow Member Steinmetz, said in full what this amendment contains. I would like to add one thing, namely that, with regard to the adoption of this law, who was today the national athlete and Olympic champion, he has so far received only the national athlete's remuneration. Now, on the basis of the new law, if this is accepted by this House, you can also receive the remuneration for the nation's athlete and receive the prize for the Olympic medals. I thank the authors for this very good draft law, and I trust that all sides of Parliament, as we have heard in the previous speech, will support and adopt this law. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-11-27-137	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dezső the Believer, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-27-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! I promise to be brief, because there are few critical comments on this proposal for us. I think you should tell me if anything's good. We believe that this legislative amendment proposal is good. We also believe that we are not strangers, and that we are particularly sympathetic to the way this amending proposal reflects. It is no stranger to us that performance and real performance must be recognised, and, in the case of athletes, performance can be measured objectively, very well, especially for these athletes who win international competitions, they have been able to perform world-class. I think that this will also be an incentive for the future generation. So we think it's a good suggestion. But I can't stand to say a sentence or two about another bill, which, I understand, will be negotiated by the Parliament on Thursday. If this bill is an incentive for youth, then I think it is where, on the other hand, we provide tax relief for those who are far from achieving this international standard in the order of 100 million, but this is demoralizing for the same layer. They say there are athletes and football players. I'm telling you, I've been playing football for 50 years, but it seems to be a classic truth, and it's very difficult to compare the two. My fellow Member, Mr Steinmetz, has said that we also thank the taxpayers. I have met with such taxpayers, and my experience with this proposal has been that they do not feel sorry for this money, they are not jealous of these athletes, and they are able to vote with a good heart for athletes like Krisztina Egerszegi, Danuta Kozák, Dénes Hard, and I have been encouraged to vote on these proposals for a very long time. So we believe that this bill is acceptable to us as well. In conclusion, it is only a partially related issue that it would be good for us to think about the fact that, for those who perform world-class in something else, we should not have to come up with something similar. Maybe we should think about it. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-27-139	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-27-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a glorious moment, and I see this conversation in Parliament and I'm joining it myself. I think that the performance, the results of these great sportsmen are our happiness and our pride. At the same time, I would like to note that the Medgyessy government has already decided on an Olympic annuity increase during the Sports Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and Ferenc Gyurcsány has also introduced the recognition of the national athlete. I think that this is also important for the record, because I see that the pro-government Members are fond of mentioning that they are national athletes. This was published in Hungarian politics and in the Hungarian sports world in the personal leading of Ferenc Gyurcsány as Minister of Sports. At the same time, let me join my trusted fellow Member, two stories are strikingly slipping together, and I very much hope that between the two, there will be no sluggishness, because this is the presentation of Olympic champions, medalists, coaches and paralympics, and I think it will be useful, but the amount that will benefit them if I know it will be about 10 billion forints will be about the price of two or three football players when this market opportunity will suddenly open up to tax relief for the teams to buy football. I hate to break it to you, but, of course, that's still true. However, I would also like to say that the draft Olympic allowance will be supported by the Democratic Coalition, we consider it important, and I think that the performance of these people should be recognised by the country. This amount is worth the effort, and I think there can be just national consensus in this country. We are all very happy and proud to see them at any stage of the podium, and we are also very happy to see their posts. Of course, we also know that sometimes fates may depend on a circle or a shower or a second of a century, and now I do not begin to mention Károly Güttler and many others, to whom we say it was so small that he did not become what he had hoped for. But all of your achievements are also our pride, so this proposal will be voted in favour of the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[16.40]]
u2018-11-27-141	Thank you, Congressman. We are now at the end of the speech by the lead speaker, and now we have the regular comments. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-11-27-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to speak on this issue because in 2012, when the single-channel sports funding system was introduced, I was myself, as the economic director of the MOB, who started the construction of this system. I dare to speak because I would like to highlight this question from that side, because I have personally met with countless athletes, our Olympic medalists and our posters in my work, of course, basically speaking about the older age group, who, in fact, have been trained, the extremely serious physical effort brought forward the problems of coordination of motion much earlier in their old age, the difficulty of movement that clearly had to be traced back to the fact that they had to perform amazing physical performance. To them, who couldn't build a rich, professional career, because sport took away a lot of time, their livelihood was created by the institution of this Olympic allowance. In 2012, when I had the opportunity to experience the operation of the system closely, and I realized that there were injustices in the plural position and medal position, I asked the president and secretary-general of the MOB at that time to present the proposal to the State Secretary as soon as possible to establish them more fairly, because, as my fellow Olympic champion and secretary of state, who is our Olympic silver athlete, he said that there were such unfair situations that a five-time Olympic champion was given as much as two single Olympic champions. But this could still be seasoned, because I have seen a number of situations that absolutely required correction. I regret the fact that this will be in front of this House in six years. Madam Secretary of State made a presentation on behalf of the Government with a very rich language and content, and to be honest, I remembered that I would ask it one day, because I am also in a nexus with the national secretary of state to explain why this was not submitted by the Government or the Ministry. Although it is also true that I would like our fellow Member, Erik Bánki, to present proposals of this kind, rather than the matter of the House Savings Bank and not the Council of Communications, because I think that this topic is better for our fellow Member. It is possible that someone wanted to put his name in the political history, in any case I believe that Parliament and the Members of Parliament can expect such a bill concerning the pride of our country, a proposal to amend a system, to be presented by the purse, and to be the national secretary of state, who is the owner of this case, who gives this kind of decent and deserved remuneration from taxpayers' money to our Olympics. The only thing I don't understand about the proposal is this, and I'm going to ask the Secretary of State very much, in the end, to explain this. Article 5 §., in which it is stated that the government will determine the detailed conditions for obtaining the title of National Athlete and the value of an annuity. I'm surprised at that. Isn't the Hungarian Parliament worthy of setting the conditions for winning the title of National Sportsman in law? Why should we degrade this extremely nice title to the fact that even the basic conditions of the nation's temple are not determined by the representatives of the people, but by a government in a government decree? I ask the representatives of the government to leave this opportunity to us with great respect until the vote. Give us this respect that if we are talking about the pride of the nation and Hungary has an amazing sports history, then at least on this issue let us tell you who the national athletes might be. Just because it makes them feel even more honoured that it is not just a government that has been regurgitating for some time, who has defined it, but all the Members of Parliament representing the whole people who could be there to express it, he could be there to reward this beautiful position. So I feel that we are so happy to discuss this issue, and I am so pleased, because until a few hours ago, there were rather impulsive debates on various issues here in this House, and now the Chamber has become so delicate, beautiful and pleasant, even if we are few. I do not feel that such a fine proposal should include this term, and, to say the least, this kind of decision should be degraded to the level that I consider to be better. While we are here in this House, I would like to talk about two more issues, since the representative of the government is here. One is that my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz mentioned the issue of European championship and world championship medals and rankings. There are non-Olympian sports. In non-Olympian sports, where there are results from at least this level and invested work, it is extremely unfair that these athletes are unable to receive any kind of annuity, even though, for at least the same length of time, at least with the same dedication and the same physical strength, preparedness and time, they win the European championship and world championship medals and rankings. We know, of course, that in sports there are European championships, world championships every year, most of them, but I think that professionals who work in the sports world can get together and come up with a system that doesn't degrade the institution of this benefit system, but at least for non-Olympian sports, for athletes such a reward, can thank you. The other thing I would like to mention is that with the institution of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, our artists are paid a fairly decent allowance by the taxpayers. So this was created by the structure of that institution. However, there is a very serious social group that we can be proud of, and these are scientists. For the benefit of our scientific society, there is no such systemic gratitude to the nation. Of course, we have scientists who, on account of their achievements, receive certain awards created in the world, such as now Éva Kondorosi one day, or there is the possibility that our scientists will be awarded with various state awards, to which there will be prizes each year. However, I do believe that there are many of our fellow scientists, whose achievements we can be very proud of, and Hungary's judgment is tremendously increased when a fellow scientist achieves international results. I consider that, in line with the scientific results, it is certain that a system of benefits can be found, which repays the fact that it has been much more difficult for our researchers to realize a high income by years, many years, decades in research institutions, not seeing it before our eyes, extremely devoted and loving, and giving the good news of our country in the scientific world as well. [[16.50]] I thank the authors for this, but first of all, after I believe that this has been done by the Ministry, and Mrs Secretary of State has not simply expressed the Government's position, but is actually standing before the House as a national or de facto author to thank you for this. We will be happy to support it, only the only 5th. Section 2 is to be taken into consideration before the vote. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-143	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2018-11-27-144	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I also asked for the floor because I would like to comment not only as a Member, but also as the president of the Sports Federation of the Hungarian Hearing Damaged and as a member of the Board of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee. This is typically an amending proposal with which almost all parties can agree. There's a consensus between us. There is no debate, and we also agree that the Olympic, Paralympic and Deaf Limpian medalists deserve all the credit. In ancient games, the Athenians appreciated their champions. For example, a worker's 14 - year wages were rewarded by champions, they did not have to pay taxes, they could visit theatres for free, but they also had to fight in the front line in war. It's been a few decades, a few centuries, a few millennia. We all know the history of the modern Olympics. The regulation of the associated reward system and benefits has been constantly changing and has been constantly evolving. Annuities, medals are not a Hungaricum, there are examples in other countries, as my fellow Member Steinmetz pointed out. It's not common, it's rare. In large sports nations, such as America, Germany, there is no allowance, only a one-time reward. But it's in Romania, it's regulated only in a different way, a medal is worth the average wage, and a medal is worth double the average salary. However, those regulations have a ceiling, and the allowance must not exceed five times the average salary. Serbia has an annuity, three times the average wage. For Olympic silver, world championship gold, athletes get two and a half times the average salary. At the same time, an annuity comes only after one medal if you are also a European champion, world champion and Olympic champion, only after the Olympic championship. When the allowance was introduced in Hungary, the primary goal, as many have said, was to recognise the enormous performance, work and compensate for the years that were spent on sports instead of their professional careers. But it was also intended to provide financial security for those who may not have had a career as an active athlete. This was very humane, very forward-looking legislation even then. Except for one aspect, maybe. And this is the situation of paralympics and deaflimpics. After 1984, athletes who had won medals in the deafly and paralympics could receive an allowance; those who had won medals before them were not entitled to do so. This has been the case for all forums, and there has been a lot of criticism from disabled athletes. The situation has not changed on this issue since 2012. I have dealt with this issue several times myself, for example, by introducing an amendment that tackles the situation that, when the medal fee was changed in 2012, and the conditions for it, it concerned only the procedures launched after 2012. Here, however, some athletes who had won a medal before 2012, but only after 2012 could apply for them at their age. So that's what we've done, and they've been getting the benefits since then. We now have this proposal, which is also very forward-looking, very gallant and very eligible. All the parties have spoken in support of this. There can be no discussion about how great athletes should be recognised. And it is also very forward-looking in terms of its motivational impact on replacements, intact athletes, as well as disabled athletes, in order to prepare for the future with even greater strength, more enthusiasm and energy. I am very confident that in a few years we will be able to congratulate more medal athletes who will enhance the reputation of Hungarian sports. But you also need to see that differences will increase between medalists before 84 and athletes who have won medals after 84, and this can also cause tension between them. They all earned glory and recognition through their medals to Hungary, Hungary. As Chairman of the Sports Federation of the Hungarian Hearing Damages and as Chairman of the Paralympic Committee, I feel it is my moral and principled duty to ask the Government to ask for the support of the Secretary of State and my fellow Members to find a way to resolve the situation of athletes who have won medals before 84. In the case of paralympics, we are talking about 2 athletes, both table tennis players who won gold medals in 72 and 76. The Deaf Limpian medalists have been organizing deaflympics since 1924, at first even for world games, and now the number of athletes who were before 84 is called the deaflympics is about 50. My fellow Members have already told me today how many Olympic and Paralympic medals have been born. I would also like to say that our athletes won 47 gold, 46 silver and 36 bronze medals between 1924 and 2017. Once again, I would very much ask my fellow Members, Madam Secretary of State, to support and help and to cooperate in resolving this situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-145	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-27-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very brief, because Dezső Believing has already said our position on behalf of our group. We are in favour of this proposal because it contains appropriate and supportive objectives. I think that the performance of our Olympic medalists is a real achievement, that for them the years devoted to achieving this achievement must obviously be compensated for by society and that financial security must be created. This is definitely a goal to be supported. It is just a small remark on my part that the agenda of the National Assembly is interesting this week, because there is a proposal of this type, which also presents an agreement between the factions, which I think can also present a public agreement, as Hungarian society is very rewarding the performance of our athletes who composed the Olympic medals. [[17.00]] On the other hand, on Thursday, we will discuss a proposal to raise the ceiling of the Echo to 500 million for today's top athletes in certain sports, but this is likely to apply to NB I football players. There, performance can be questioned in many cases. But I didn't want to spoil the mood. I'm just gonna say this is gonna happen on Thursday. And this is something to support. Let me say here that I also think that Gergely Tapolczai has suggested that the Secretary of State can be considered and supported, but what Andrea Varga-Damm has indicated, I also think it is eligible that the terms of the title "Sportsman of the Nation" are regulated by law by the National Assembly. In general, it is not a good process, in my view, that more and more detailed rules are regulated by regulations; I think there may be enough confidence in Parliament that it is able to establish such rules; I do not think that this is the case on which the factions or unworthy political debates would be so much in conflict. So I think this is also a sensible proposal, but, of course, even in this form, I think that you will benefit from the support of our group. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-147	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-11-27-148	I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, for speaking again, but after the presentation by our fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai, I felt that I should speak, given that this question must have been on the table as early as 2012. I thought that once this Olympic benefit issue was initiated once by the government, the issue of our athletes who had won medals would finally be settled. At the time, it was not only a one-channel sport funding scheme, but also the Olympic Commission's Paralympic Committee, and practically all Olympic organisations were integrated, and both the budget and the various sportsmen's benefits and annuities were dealt with in a uniform manner. There were countless professional discussions on this issue, which our fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai said, and I would like to say to you that there were basically reasons for rejecting it at the time, which I simply do not understand today. I believe that there is no one among 199 Members who would not say that any kind of person with physical disabilities, if he is capable of world-class sportsmen, despite his own disability, for performances that result in Olympic medals and rankings, we must give these countrymen all the benefits that we can. Even a healthy person is an amazing achievement with the possibility of an Olympic departure, it kills many decades in a sport, but the fact that a disabled athlete, if not a physical eclipse, is deaf or blind, is also, whether he likes it or not, preparing for sports results in a much more serious way than a healthy athlete. Since this proposal is already in front of this House, I ask with great respect the Secretary of State, it does not take much time for the question raised by our fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai to be placed in this amending proposal, because we have about 50 compatriots who cannot receive the nation's gratitude because of the lack of rules, because this is the nation's gratitude. Let's find a way to resolve this, present it to us, and I'm sure we'll be even more happy to vote for this bill or the bill that goes to the vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-149	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to comment. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to Erik Bánki, the author.
u2018-11-27-150	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank all the representatives of the political groups for their keynote contributions and for the contributions of my fellow Members outside the main speaker group, because, indeed, as I asked in the exposé, everyone is trying to avoid political disagreements and to look at the noble purpose that this bill serves, it has succeeded perfectly. This is a rare moment in the Hungarian Parliament in recent years. I am particularly pleased that there were two athletes involved in the debate of the bill, as Secretary of State and Congressman Steinmetz, because this means that, yes, there is a place in politics for successful athletes who have proved themselves in the field of sport and who have stood their ground there, as we can see, in politics with similar effectiveness and similar success. Regarding the speeches: Mr Adam Steinmetz pointed out that his fellow Olympics were also pleased with this initiative. I didn't talk about this in the Expo, but before we presented the bill with Mr. Group leader and Minister, I also talked with a number of Olympic medalists and Olympic athletes, just to ask their opinion on the possibility that this kind of new regulation might not create tension among athletes, and I received the answers I had anticipated in advance, because the same solidarity, the same struggle for each other came from these conversations that we could see during the course of the athletes' career. So also those who, by the way, are not specifically concerned, because they are not Olympic medalists, but only Olympics and Olympics, they also said that they are very happy about this arrangement, because it will indeed be a just distribution. I would like to thank my fellow Member, László Földi, for highlighting the elimination of conflicts of interest for the title of National Athlete, because we also believe that this was not good regulation. It is not possible to take away the Olympic allowance from national athletes, who are the athletes of the nation, because not only with the result of their career as athletes, but also with their responsibility and work towards society in the field of human relations, they have earned the ability to be national athletes. I also thank my fellow Member, Dezső, for the support of the MSZP. I can say that this is not the first time that he has given us such a supportive contribution and a supportive opinion on the bill on sport, and that we have also enjoyed the support of the Member and support of the faction in the bill submitted before the World Water Championship and which allows the World Water Championship to take place at this level, so thank you very much for this. And the fact that the Democratic Coalition, in the words of Zsolt Gréczy, is in favour of this bill, we also thank you, because this is a full-scale support from all parliamentary groups to the bill. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm raised the question as to why the regulation on the award of the title "Sportsman of the Nation" is not being dealt with by law. I would like to reassure the congresswoman that the government has already shown a generous attitude in this area, since every time the national athletes have chosen the person who could be in this circle, the government has never said anything about it in any way, nor is it planning to do so. I am in favour of the regulation at the level of a government decree because it is much easier to adapt to any change in life. No one can question the government's commitment to sport in these benches, because the decisions that we have taken in the previous years have shown precisely that we act in support of all sports-related issues, and we strive to make decisions everywhere that improve the lives and living conditions of active athletes and athletes who are already active. So I don't see any risks in that. To the point raised by my fellow Member, Mr Gergely of Tapolcza, we can always find a point where we can expand this circle. I absolutely understand that when we draw a line and this is 1984, this was not defined by accident at the time, because this 1984 was the first event in the Paralympic system to have actually preceded the Olympic Games, which can be said to be well organized and only allows athletes who are worthy of their performance to get out. [[17.10]] I absolutely accept the need to support anyone who has any mental or physical disadvantage, but still considers it important to participate as an athlete in any event, but the performance that we intend to recognise with the Olympic annuity must follow a very serious and decisive set of conditions. Obviously, we will discuss this issue with the government, and I just wanted to say this in chief because it was not by accident that this line was drawn at the time. Obviously, there is a need to look at the additional budgetary implications, but I think it is more important than that what additional tensions may result if we extend the circle at this level, but there is no contradiction on this issue in principle. So I would like to thank once again all my fellow Members for their supporting contributions, and I very much hope that we will be able to count on the support of all the groups in the final vote in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-151	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Members of the Bencsik János and Czunyiné Bertalan Judit T/3627. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Dr. Judit Bertalan, the author.
u2018-11-27-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The T/3627 in front of us. XLVIII. a relatively short proposal to amend law. The proposal was tabled by my fellow Member, János Bencsik, since we are both representatives of the mining region and of individual Parliaments in the region involved in mining activities. The proposal before us amends the Mining Act to allow those entitled to a temporary mining allowance, which is also a labour reserve with substantial and significant experience for the national economy, to be entitled to a temporary mining allowance, out of equity, to the annual LXXXI on social security benefits. Law 83/B. In the event of a breach of the annual limitation provided for in Section 2 of this Article, the benefit shall also be passed on. Ladies and gentlemen, Nearly 3,000 Hungarian citizens in Hungary receive a temporary mining allowance. The allowance shall be granted to a miner who has worked for at least 25 years or 5 000 shifts underground, who can then receive a temporary mining allowance long before age is reached. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data §2 XLVIII of the year on mining. Law 49/C. It complements paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act on Social Insurance Pensions, which provides that beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits may be exempted from the social security pension measure on an individual basis on a fair basis on the basis of an individual application. At present, this means that if the beneficiary of an early retirement pension obtains income from an employment relationship covered by the Labour Code, he must declare his earnings in the event that he reaches 18 times the minimum wage, and from that notification the pension lender shall cease payment of the temporary mining allowance. We are proposing to my fellow Member that, in the case of beneficiaries of a temporary mining allowance, given the above-mentioned work experience and their valuable workforce, and because we know the temporary miners living on the ground, we have consulted them when they submitted the proposal, they are working, they want to work, and with the abolition of the income limit, their situation would improve or they would be in a significantly better position. Dear House, The age of the range of persons entitled to temporary mining benefits, the labour market situation of the areas previously affected by mining, the range of persons entitled to temporary mining benefits, who are otherwise engaged in industrial work that may constitute a shortage in professional and professional fields, their further preferential employment in this way is good for both the region and the number of persons entitled to temporary mining benefits living there. Please support our proposal, which will, on the one hand, facilitate employment rules and, on the other hand, recognise and facilitate the possibility of employing persons entitled to temporary mining benefits under an allowance. I call on this House to debate and support the proposal in substance. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-153	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tünde Szabó.
u2018-11-27-154	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The annual XLVIII on mining. T/3627. In the general debate on bill No.1, please allow me, in a few sentences, to confirm, on behalf of the government, the content of the bill before us. In the circumstances which require special consideration, the Pension Insurance Administration is the annual LXXXI for the payment of the transitional mining allowance. Law 83/B. It may, on request, grant an exemption from the suspension under Article 4 of this Agreement in respect of fairness. Therefore, beneficiaries of a temporary mining pension may be exempted on a fair basis from the Social Insurance Pension Act 83/B on the basis of an application which has been assessed at the same time. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction under the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The bill thus seeks to recognise and, as a matter of fairness, allows the payment of temporary mining benefits under the Social Insurance Pensions Act 83/B. In addition, in the event of a breach of the annual limit laid down in Section 2 of this Article, and in the case of a breach of the annual limit provided for in that Article, citizens who receive a temporary mining allowance constitute a labour reserve with significant experience for the national economy. A temporary mining allowance can be granted to a worker who has done underground work for 25 years or more, as we have heard from the congresswoman. The person entitled to the mining allowance who is working under the allowance must, at present, be suspended from receiving the allowance if his earnings exceed 18 times the minimum wage and an equivalent amount. At present, due to the achievement of the income limit, the payment of the temporary mining allowance for about 30 persons is suspended, and on this basis the annual XLVIII on mining. The Government also supports the amendment of the Act and its entry into force from 1 January 2019. Accordingly, I, too, ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-155	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President János Latorcai wishes to speak during today's general debate. If Mr Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President János Latorcai should be able to lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please indicate by raising your hands, who agree. [[Vote.]] This House has been adopted by a large majority with full unanimity, so it will be possible to speak accordingly. Dear Parliament, The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Ferenc Koncz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[17.20]]
u2018-11-27-156	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, T/3627. No XLVIII of 1993 on mining. The bill amending the law is in the interests of our country's national economy, and makes it easier for temporary miners who want to work. On the basis of the proposal, beneficiaries of a temporary mining allowance may be granted an exemption from social security pension in 1997 on the basis of an individually evaluated application. Law 83/B. The Court of First Instance held that the Court of Justice of the European Union, in so far as the Court of Justice of the European Union is concerned, is not bound by the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and is not bound by the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union or by the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union or by the law of the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, According to 2017 data, there are 2860 Hungarian citizens receiving temporary mining benefits in Hungary. Following the termination of the old early retirement option, the mining pension was replaced by the temporary mining pension as of 1 January 2012. As we have heard today, a temporary mining allowance is due to a miner who has worked for at least 25 years or at least 5,000 underground shifts. The benefit may be granted regardless of age and may therefore be used by persons under 45 years of age. Temporary mining allowance is one of the benefits replaced by pre-age pensions, i.e. not pension. In the case of an action for work in addition to benefits, the pension allowance shall be paid by the beneficiary, so that he gains an additional period of service and the action for payment of the pension shall also be taken into account for the calculation of the amount of the pension. In view of the acquisition of rights under benefits, the person receiving benefits may apply for an old-age pension up to 20 years after the age of retirement. If the amount of the newly established old-age pension is higher than the amount of the temporary mining pension plus an annual pension increase, it shall be paid to it. If the amount of the allowance is higher, it will continue to receive it as an old-age pension. Any person who works in addition to the payment of an allowance should be suspended from receiving an allowance at present if the salary exceeds 18 times the minimum wage. In the month in which the earnings exceeded 18 times the minimum wage, the transitional mining allowance is still paid, but from the following month to the last month of the year, the payment is suspended. As from January of the following year, the amount of the pension increase in January will have to be paid again. The pension replaced the transitional mining allowance and the retirement pension before 2012 was a pension and, in the case of work with a pension, it was possible to pay the pension only up to an income not exceeding 18 times the minimum wage, it was not possible to re-retire the pension at the time of the retirement age, taking into account the service and earnings acquired in the meantime, but, as today's pensioners, are entitled to a pension increase equal to 0,5 per cent of gross earnings. Thus, the scheme was converted into a benefit: a higher amount of old-age pension available on the basis of additional pension rights acquired in addition to the benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the adoption of this proposal, which supports, on the one hand, the national economy interest and the improvement of competitiveness of our country, and, on the other hand, nearly 3 thousand of my father-in-law, among others, were in this area, and encouraged the employment of our Hungarian country's partner, who wanted to work as a temporary miner. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-27-157	Thank you, Congressman. I would now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm if she were here, but I do not see her. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea enters the Chamber. Intercoms, among them: Here it is!]] Then please take your seat, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, from Fidesz... from Jobbik. Excuse me.
u2018-11-27-158	[[Laughing:]] We'll reschedule next week. [[Defiance.]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is certainly eligible, and I would like to say this at the beginning, but of course I would not have spoken if I had not been able to criticise it for some reason. The point of this is that it was extremely unfair that the allowance granted to the miners was not paid in the event of employment being established in another way, or as in the original law 83/B. §2 of the Act provides that until the retirement age is reached, all earnings above 18 times the minimum wage will be suspended. The biggest problem with this proposal is that I do not quite understand why it is included in this proposal, that they may be granted an exemption. Now I'd like to speak for the miners. In the previous bill, we talked about the amazing performance and sacrifice of athletes. I'm sorry, but I can talk about miners as much as I can talk about athletes. The transitional mining allowance was defined by law as working underground, spent at least 5 000 shifts, 1.67 times the shift in Mecsek ore mining, or 1.25 times the shift in Mecsek coal mining, not the retirement age, and is not in insurance status. In 2012, the former mining pension was taken away. It was called a mining pension until 1 January 2012, then it became a temporary mining pension. So, what I can tell everyone is that you'd be kind enough to imitate the performance and the psychic ordeal that exists in a miner's life. Every day, the miner goes underground and doesn't know if he's coming out. The mining man's alien system, his soul, his commitment, his physical stamina is at a level that an ordinary citizen cannot catch up with or imagine. I think that we will make any favourable rules for miners, we will have to lay one down for ourselves: we will make any positive changes for miners, we will not give them as gifts, we will not give them out of fairness, we will not give them because the performance of the economy dictates this right now, but we will give them because we are grateful that they have chosen this profession. The miners were not estimated by chance for centuries by the government of each country and by all those who could decide their fate. Although we know how they were treated in England for an amazing long time, very soon after the industrial revolution, governments from many countries realized that there was no industrial development without the miners' sacrifice. The world is different today, of course, because we are talking about how much the fossil energy source pollutes the environment every day between the walls of this House and the committees, and it is running out anyway, but whether you like it or not, our miner countrymen, thank God, live here among us. Our miner countrymen who receive a temporary mining allowance have fulfilled the amazing requirements listed above. Therefore, I would like to ask the authors and the representatives of the government with great respect why this is only an option. I do not know exactly how many people are affected by this, but why is it only an opportunity if what is laid down in the general justification is true, that their person represents a reserve of labour for our industry, if it is true, and we all know that there are extremely few workers who can be involved in our economic life because of migration on the one hand, and that everyone wants to do qualified work or work in an office, so in the young age group the willingness to work in mining is becoming less and less. We all know that. [[17 .30]] We all know that. We know that the government did not bring this issue up by accident, that this proposal was presented to our House by the government by reason of the general justification: the labour force reserve. Well, if these people are so important to our country's economy, if the work of these people is essential to our country's economy, then why are we putting them in an unfair position to ask for this opportunity, and the answer will be yes or no at the moment. I stress: I do not know how many people are affected, but if they are standing in the bloodstream of the economy, as a positive force in our GDP production, then let us give them that opportunity, submit their application and allow it. I do not expect, of course, that, since the administration system has an amazing workload, and a worker has an even greater burden after dismissal, so I do not think that I should ask the representative of the government to examine these situations on his own initiative, because in the IT system, the situation of all our miners can be found on this issue, so it is appropriate that the miner concerned make his request in order to exempt him from losing his temporary mining allowance, but I ask you to consider until the vote: he does not get it, but he walks, the miners are entitled to everything. If the 199 Members in this House do not agree on this, then we will make our countrymen second-rate who must be treated as first-rate, because they are extremely important factors in the economic development of our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-11-27-159	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai, on behalf of the KDNP.
u2018-11-27-160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary. Madam Congresswoman, as well as the Speaker. Allow me to begin with a brief historical overview, just because we are celebrating the mining society on St. Barbara's day exactly one week from today, because that's when the mining day will take place. For many centuries, mining and metallurgy have been the leading sectors of the national economy in our country. Annex XIII is replaced by the text set out in Annex XIII to this Regulation. In the first century, five-sixths of the gold produced on the continent and one-quarter of the silver was mined in our country, and even in 1770 the country, 30 percent of the state's income, came from the mines in the highlands and Transylvania. Of course, the world has changed since then. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the century, the millennia tradition of Hungarian mining had undergone a radical change. As a result of the Trianon dictatorship closing World War I, the mining nature of the country that had shrunk to one third of its former territory has been lost overnight. The loss by mining area reached 80% nationwide, including 99 percent of noble and color ore production, 96 percent of iron ore production, 70 percent of coal production, and total loss of stone salt production. It was the stage of stagnation. Although the often pointless socialist industrialization has given yet another temporary impetus to domestic mining, the XX. By the end of the century, its traditional forms were essentially reduced. In 1993 we created the integration of the mining and electricity industries to ensure the survival of domestic mining in order to protect jobs in part, which ensured the survival of the mining industry and the preservation of jobs for a good ten years. But you have to see, despite all the efforts, using technical integration, technological developments and all the innovations of the miners now, the XXI. Even in the century, where there is still deep ground, in the deep, there is uncertainty, and sometimes they have to face the fallibility of existence. Perhaps it is also due to this increased interrelationship that the miners, not only in the womb of the earth but also in their spare time, were able to join together, create a self-help team, build a hospital for the sick and the stagnant miners, have been able to take care of culture, pass on traditions, have been able to raise cultural houses, can be said to be permanent, to write songs, which are played today in mining villages and towns by mining orchestras. Mining solarity and traditions are still alive today, despite the fact that, unfortunately, in our country, we have basically stopped working in the deep end. But there is still respect for the profession, which is a great force in mining regions. Reports of mining disasters coming from around the world from time to time show that despite the use of the latest technical achievements, the workers in the mines, who risk their health in their work, often their lives, face the fact that the mining industry is about to disappear. This must never be forgotten by society and politics. I believe that is why my fellow Members have decided to initiate the 1993 XLVII on mining. In order to allow beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits to be exempted from the pension law on a fair basis on an application. The proposal seeks to favour individuals who have spent at least 25 years working underground, for which I believe they should be thanked separately. We also need to see that citizens who receive temporary mining benefits represent, in many cases, a labour reserve with considerable experience for the national economy. In previous mining areas, such as the Tatabánya region or the mining areas in the area of Miskolc, or the Mecsek mines, there has been a low unemployment rate in recent years, companies often suffer from labour shortages, which is why it is necessary for well-trained professionals who still want to work in their lives to be given a real opportunity by the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions. Law 83/B. In the event of a breach of the annual limitation provided for in Section 2 of this Article, they should not be in the unfair position of either losing the allowance or having to terminate their employment or being forced to retire. I trust that all of my fellow Members can support this proposal, and I hope that this proposal is a first. The practice of the law enforcement of the particular circumstances of which the special assessment is required in Article 4 of this Regulation will soon be crystal-cryptized. The KDNP Group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Good luck. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[17.40]]
u2018-11-27-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, 25 years of service, underground work in the underground sector, or at least 5000 shifts, with a few exceptions of 5000 shifts, this is actually the condition of mining benefits, which I do not like, because if I look back on the 2012 debates, then I think that the 2861 people who, according to data from 1 January 2017, received temporary mining benefits should be basically pensioners. I think that, at the time, about six years ago, you took away from one of the most difficult social groups in one of the hardest jobs, something that had to do with them, and also designed in a career with them, obviously their health, their family life, and a lot of things that this hard work had had to do with it. Such a mule has created this temporary mining allowance, and obviously the specific proposal is actually about not applying the legal limit to these persons receiving a temporary mining allowance in a situation of particular appreciation. In a situation of particular appreciation, I do not think that this is the most effective. I agree with Andrea Varga-Damm that this would not be necessary in this sense. Give them the mining allowance, no matter how much they earn, and don't make a decision about it in some very vague place. I would like to clarify, or put it on the table, that, obviously, the situation here is that if their income reached 18 times the minimum wage from employment, the transitional mining allowance was suspended for that year and resumed from 1 January. The shocking number if I have good information is that according to January 2017 data, NYF has only suspended the payment of two main temporary mining allowances. That means something to me. This means that if the number is not accurate, then I assume that it is definitely a low number, this is important because it is likely that after the loss of many entitlements due to the mining pension and pension status, those receiving a temporary mining allowance were so afraid that they did not go to work under such legal conditions, environment, even if they had an interest in it or had an opportunity, because they feared what was left of them. So, if we look at this whole environment, then I think that if you take out these conditions of appreciation and simply allow them to work without a ceiling, then this is a correct effort. But it is difficult to say that we do not look back on the state of 2012, we do not look back on the time when these people were deservedly retired or the very large part of them deservedly retired, and we do not insist that they still have the right to receive benefits after their earned and very hard-working years. So the least I can say is that it doesn't take a position of appreciation to be able to work alongside it, but it does, in fact, recognize these years for them. I think I'd like to put one more thing on the table. The early retirement pension scheme has been proposed many times to be re-introduced. There may be many other parameters in Hungary today that justify this, whether from professional drivers through the chemical industry, in the hot environment or in a warm environment, who are forced to work at a high temperature, they all pose a health risk to them that would justify their early retirement at such a high, increasing retirement age. These are professions, and I can also say here about miners working in the underground sector, one of my great-grandfathers was also a miner, and I think that many of us are talking about this subject in a way that our family is involved in this matter, or was involved, our ancestors were involved. So the thing is, these professions were a health risk, which, if any, does not allow a very large number of people working in the profession to reach retirement age. So you should look at what life prospects a person working in such an ordinary job has, what age he can expect, and what the state gives him compared to that. I think that the two should be balanced, and society should appreciate the health risk they take to make this country move and what their families are forced to suffer for the job they are in. It is difficult to talk about this proposal without talking about these issues, because this proposal contains only a narrow set of detailed rules, which may even be appreciated if this small correction is made. I ask you to appreciate the thousands of thousands of tens of thousands of people and their families who have worked, the values placed on the table of the national economy and the nation by the pretzels, the miners in Holes, and, of course, the same can be said for the other mining areas, the Mecsek or the other parts of the country. Please take these into account and review your previous decisions. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-163	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju, on behalf of DK.
u2018-11-27-164	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I feel a little bit like I might have to override what I had to say to the previously determined comment, because I've heard so much good things about the miners here, I might not have to be a buzzkill. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Don't be.]] But the main reason for this is because the person you're talking about working 5,000 shifts or working 5,000 shifts, I'm here for one of those who did more than 2 grand of them, by the way, specifically. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I have worked more than 2 thousand, a large part of which I have worked as a sparkle, as an assistant, as an accomplice, as a bomber, who, by the way, were entitled to the pension that my fellow Member had just talked about, who had expected to receive a pension, not an allowance. But let's not get ahead of ourselves, 'cause good luck. In fact, a greeting is very appropriate for the work that it takes more than a person to start working as a trained professional, to perform for years, to gain experience, and to end up underground, in the depths, even as for a time, a thousand meters deep at the Mecsek Orc Mining Company where there was even a special possibility of handling the 5000 shifts. This Mecsek ore mining company is still an important part, or an important element, of its successor, since it is still functioning and has a task. But the real question is, of course, that jobs that ceased practically decades ago, and the real fate of some kind of miners who have become retired after job losses, because I have to say and here is the part of the celebration that very many pensions have not been paid to miners. Of course, the reason for this was that the increased danger, the increased health use, was all about shortening what was due to them by the way, even if it is a consciously undertaken, risk-related attitude, and I think that the vast majority of us thought that it could, but I am an exception, and we will manage to survive. [[17.50]] That's not what the statistics show. That is why it was very painful to have such an unfairness in the mining society, when the story was that the pensioner's opportunity, retirement, had been abolished, instead, with a reduction in benefits in other services, which, by the way, we see the consequences. And today, in your presentation, this means a supply of labour to try to get some more people, so that as a consequence of the Orbán package, people who can still work can take their place from Hungary. But, my dear fellow Member, who said this as a rapporteur or as a lead speaker, or as a secretary of state in his presentation, these people do not need a job, but a decent pension after the work they have done. That is what they should be provided with; that is what they need. These people, who have completed these 5,000 shifts and worked them off, do not need a new job, as I also think about the retirement society, and the results of the polls show that more than 70 percent of them do not want to work, but are forced to, because they create conditions that they cannot live as pensioners or as annuities. That's the problem! And from this point of view, of course, to go back to the very beginning of the few people who may be confronted with this problem or for whom we are creating a better opportunity, it is worth supporting this, of course, provided that we get to the point where the amendments or amendments that are coming in do not make this impossible, but I think that you will prove and demonstrate what it is that needs to be done in this regard. In any case, I will either join you or initiate you, which in this respect is almost irrelevant, but I would stress it here, and I think that it is the responsibility of the government to correct the mistake that you have made on its own, when you say that you are asking for it, out of fairness, if you ask for it very much, then we will give it to you. No! That's what they deserve. It goes without saying that after what you have done, if you want to open up an opportunity, you should not leave them in the uncertainty that they will be judged on who and on what basis, but that, by law, they should be able to do so if they want to make use of it. I am also saying this because there are many of these miners, who, by the way, had to look for something else sooner than the period planned there, or look for other options, perhaps this is more accurate, even because they used disability benefits and disability pensions. And then five years ago, in 2012, what happened, you changed the law to say that from now on, if you didn't grow your hands in the process, anyone who had a serious injury, the accident at work here is countless, and you've lost it anyway. A few weeks ago, the Constitutional Court stated that you acted completely unconstitutionally, and that you now owe these people. Do you know how many of them are still in this category, or do you really not have to count on it because it will not report a financial expense to you? They've been gone for the last year. So I say to you, and I'm glad that many people do so, that they view not only as a labour reserve a society which, by the way, as an employee of an earlier, then much more significant industry, was decisive for Hungary's industry, partly personally and partly as a company, in an esteemed manner... that, as usual, it was not 3 October, but the first Sunday of September that was the miner's day. [[Dr. János Latorcai intervenes.]] I'm sorry when the reward for loyalty was paid to the miners who were working on this, by the way. When that happened, it gave them the opportunity to really feel appreciated there at that time. Whether you take advantage of this opportunity, whether you use it or consider this whole community as a workforce reserve, or, as you did a few minutes or an hour ago, when athletes were praised, you could continue this circle in the same way, but I'm glad that someone else did, but at least you draw your attention to the fact that in this case you have a very serious debt for everything that happened in 2012, and also for what you did with the retirement of the miners. And if you take such a small step in this for them... but I think, or I feel, it doesn't depend on their agreement and their intentions, but you try to involve them as a workforce reserve. I suggest that you be fairer with the mining community, give them more, not just on request, but on fairness, instead of trying to do good to them, but on real recognition to help them to do the work that they have done today or in the past, at least feel that they have done for the benefit of society. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2018-11-27-165	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we're going to have regular speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2018-11-27-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the bill before us with mixed feelings. The reason for my mixed feelings is that, on the one hand, with regard to the intentions submitted by the government side for the transitional mining allowance, we agree that this is a step forward, and we welcome this step, for which I have a negative feeling about it, is that what led us to call these people now temporary miners' pensions, not miners' pensioners. From 1 January 2012, the usual miner's pension had ceased, since then the pre-retirement benefit could no longer be established. The pension payments at the time were no longer added from the social security fund, but from the budget, so the budget was charged directly to these people's care, support and not the pension fund. The July 2011 amendment of the Constitution allowed these early retirement pensions to be reduced, converted into social benefits or even abolished if the beneficiaries were able to work. It is important to see that there was no accident that this was surrounded by intense opposition, fierce protests, a whole series of protests on the part of those involved, and I myself have been involved in this, and that is why I am now taking a very mixed view of this bill before us, because this should not be discussed if the government had not otherwise intervened in a way that undermines the rights of workers. I note that there have been international forums on this issue, and the Ombudsman has also dealt with this issue, and everyone has benefited from the employee side on this issue. [[18.00]] It is very important to see that workers in the heavy industry, especially miners, have been honoured for a very long time not only in Hungary but also in many countries of the world, with special benefits and early retirement. I note that there was also the idea of a loyalty programme on the part of the profession, which was otherwise in line with international practice, which could otherwise have been avoided from putting all the implications of this on the budget. After all, taxpayers pay the pensions of these people either in this way, from the public distribution system or as a budget item, but this could have been resolved in a different way. He defined this profession as Szent József's loyalty program, which would affect workers over the age of 58, those who have more than 35 years of working relationship. Congressman János Latorcai, whose outstanding professional skills have been shown here, within Parliament, for a reason. You have certainly lived through the professional debates on this before as a member of the Economic Committee. I would therefore like to propose to the government side, with respect to the future, a review of the system for integrating the costs associated with the various pension benefits of people working within the sector into these people's wages as a public burden and burden on their employers. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This would be covered, and in Hungary, the mining sector produces a highly profitable profit rate above the national average, so I suggest that the government side consider this, and then there is no need to propose the launch of a similar measure to the budget. I would also like to remind my fellow Members of the 2014 Jobbik programme. There was a part of this that we called a plan for the Seven Leaders. It is about the mineral resource recovery plan and the development plan. At the time, we were realistic about the fact that mining can be restarted in Hungary. Such measures, as I mentioned, would have enabled these early retirement pensions to be charged to the employer and thus accessible to a number of people. About this measure, with such a mineral recovery programme, we calculate that about 30 thousand new jobs could be created directly in mining in Hungary, restart uranium mining, restart coal mining, and even in a number of similar areas in Hungary, but we have seen that there is unfortunately no real intention of doing so in Hungary. Mining is becoming more and more a forgotten sector for our country, which, by the way, I sincerely regret. What I ask of my fellow Members is that this proposal, given the fact that it represents progress for the concerned former miners' pensioners, is a help and therefore support. And I would ask the government side to propose that employers should be involved at a higher level in the use of public burdens in mining and thus ensure that early retirement of workers is considered by the government side at their expense and take action in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-167	Thank you, Congressman Volner. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and ask if anyone else would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mrs Judit Bertalan, on behalf of the authors, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-168	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear fellow Members, At some point, I would definitely respond to the comments. First of all, on behalf of miners and miners living in my region, I thank you for the goodwill of those who supported the proposal, even though some thought this to be a small or not significant step forward with interesting reasoning. I say to my colleague Varju that my fellow Member Bencsik and I are notaries of the bill, and we have been contacted by the miners in the region, so this is the origo or origin of the bill. We did not wish for more, and obviously our region is an industrially ex-mining region, and indeed the words that you have spoken, even to a small extent, if human value and human labour can be considered to be small, may be too much, because they may have personally reached us or contacted us through their representatives. I would like to clarify something because they have all brought up the 2012 amendments and changes to the pension law. My colleague, Mr Korózs, had the opportunity to comment in the debate on the law. [[Lajos Korózs: Congresswoman, what they did in 2012 was disgusting. The president's ringing the bell.]] My colleague, Mr Korózs, if he had asked for the floor, I would have listened with patience, calmness and calmness and not turned my back on him. So I'd like to clarify something. There is indeed a difference between a temporary mining allowance and a mining pension. This difference means that in 2012 this benefit was a pension for miners, which was 18 times the wage limit for working with a pension, so if 18 times the minimum wage was earned from work, then it had to be reported and, like the temporary mining allowance, I would remind you of this before 2012, so the pension was suspended before 2010. That's one of them. The second is: at that time, until 2012, he was not entitled to a mining pension in addition to the mining pension, but at the age of 46, 48, 52 he was not entitled to a mining pension at 62, 63 years of age to obtain a pension of perhaps higher than the recalculation. However, the temporary mining allowance, since during the period of the benefit the person entitled to the temporary mining allowance is insured, is this plus, let's say, the entitlement is open to the establishment of the pension. This was not the case with the mining pension before. This is the result of the then negotiations and the then negotiations with the miners. I highlighted this to all of you, as this is a significant difference between the pre-2012 mining pension and the post-2012 transitional benefit. This is one of the reasons why the miners who may be involved have submitted this bill at their request, by suspending work on entitlement to temporary benefits and the benefit after reaching the legal limit. And to my fellow Member Varju, I would have been more pleased if, in 2009, as a member of the socialist government at that time, the Markushegy miners had put 900 people on the streets between November 2009 and March 2010, thanks to questionable electricity purchase contracts, because of the failure of the Vértes Power Plant; if, then, with such vehemence, such power and such goodwill, I would have accepted your criticism. In that case, I don't know. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask for the support of the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-169	Thank you, Congresswoman Judit Bertalan. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. It follows now that the schedule of concessions of 1991 is set out in Annex XVI. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. [[18.10]] Presentation submitted by Fidesz MEPs Mónika Dunai and István Bajkai T/3635. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai... [[For signal:]] István Bajkai is also entitled as rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai Fidesz, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-170	[[The Member shall begin his speech without any tone. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-27-171	Put your card in place because the microphone doesn't work. But it'll work when you get the card. [[Lajos Korózs: The credit card is good! Defiance.]] Thank you very much. Congressman Bajkai! [[The congressman puts his card in the voting machine.]]
u2018-11-27-172	Thank you very much. Sorry for the mistake. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Since the beginning, the State has been able to provide for which activity it maintains exclusively for itself, and to whom it allows the exercise of those activities, in what form and under what conditions, if it maintains the possibility of being transferred at all. In order to ensure the best use of the State for the operation of the assets reserved for itself or for the performance of certain activities, it may also avail itself of a concession. It has a long history of ensuring that certain works or the provision of public services are covered not only by the State itself, but by involving economic operators, by allowing a certain part of the results obtained during the operation or service to be provided to the contributing economic operator for a longer period. Given that the object of the concession is always an activity or object of particular importance and protection by the State, it is therefore a cardinal issue to regulate precisely, effective and with guarantees of provisions on the subject. In Hungary, the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. I quote: the requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of property owned by the State and local authorities, the scope of the exclusive ownership of the state and local authorities, the fundamental limitations and conditions of the right of disposal over national assets, and the exclusive economic activities of the State and the local government. The concession law, which is to be amended before us, lays down detailed rules for the transfer of the temporary right to exercise the economic activities set out in the National Property Act under a concession contract. Ladies and gentlemen, Prior to the entry into force of the National Property Act, it was possible to create a share of the national property owned exclusively by the State or the local government. Shared property is a property for which the building is typically owned by the builder and not by the owner of the land. As a rule, following the entry into force of the National Property Act, following the old Roman legal principle, the principle of aedificium solo cedit, there is no possibility of creating shared property in respect of the unfit municipal stock. However, there was an exception to the law. The law is 18. Paragraph 5 of this Act states that I quote that there is no conflict with the prohibition of the creation of shared ownership of contracts containing a provision for the establishment of shared ownership for permanent bodies in accordance with the provisions of the laws in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract before the entry into force of this Act. For such contracts, shared ownership may be entered in the real estate register taking into account the otherwise applicable legal conditions. The special transitional provision described above therefore states that there is no conflict with the prohibition of the creation of shared ownership by means of contracts containing a provision for the establishment of shared ownership for a permanent body before the entry into force of the law. The law, as has been said, basically prohibits the creation of shared ownership, and therefore we consider it necessary to provide an alternative opportunity for those who have concluded a contract with a provision for the establishment of shared ownership prior to the entry into force of the law, which has enabled them to use the structure for the purpose of the contract in a concession rather than a division of ownership. The provisions of the concession law, with the regulation of the concession contract, contain a number of provisions protecting the ownership of national property, and it is therefore in the interest of the owner of the national property to have the right to the temporary exploitation of the national property under a concession contract. Moreover, the amendment of the legislation also affects the harmonisation of the conditions for the use of the municipal stock, which may result in predictability in the relationship between the investor and the owner of the national property and the development of uniform case-law. The bill also takes into account the protection of the rights acquired by the investor, since the private tender provides for the possibility of concluding the concession contract necessary for the exercise of the activity. In view of this, the legislator requires that a private tendering procedure be carried out, in which the holder or holder of the existing official building permit is deemed to be interested. In order to ensure the possibility of a private tender by means of the bill, the amendment extends the scope of these exceptional procedures, maintaining the possibility of private tendering for defence or national security purposes, so that the rules of private tendering for defence or national security purposes remain unchanged. With this small-scale amendment, it is possible for the contracting parties to be able to convert the legal relationship into a concession contract where ownership has not yet been registered. However, in the light of the rule of law, it is only possible to change the legal relationship, while ensuring private tendering, only if the parties have the same will. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-173	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State says not this time. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-27-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As stated in the expozee, the present bill aims, in particular, to provide an alternative to the contractual relations existing before the entry into force of the National Property Act in the context of the local government stock, by providing for the possibility of legal relations under a concession contract instead of the establishment of shared ownership. Before the entry into force of the National Property Act, the exploitation of unfit municipal property was in several cases achieved by the creation of shared property on the property. This type of construction included the acquisition by the investor of ownership of the construction, which could have been final under the agreement of the parties. In parallel to this right, the investor also acquired land use rights in the area as well as operating rights in the building. [[18.20]] Contrary to all this, our current law on national assets prohibits the creation of shared ownership on unfit municipal stock. As a special rule, the law states that there is no conflict with that prohibition on the establishment of shared ownership in respect of a permanent superstructure concluded prior to the entry into force of the law. In many cases, the content of legal relationships resulting from contracts concluded in this way varies considerably. As a result, judicial settlement of disputes is not uniform. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we are discussing now offers a beneficial alternative for the parties. Our national law assigns the local government tribe assets to national property, which is also protected at the statutory level. The proposed legislation seeks to ensure predictability as regards the relationship between the investor and the owner of the national property. Therefore, the bill allows the parties to transform the relationship between the municipality and the investor into a concession law. It should be pointed out that this is only an option, since the right of the parties should not be undermined to maintain the content of the relationship between them unchanged in accordance with their free and consistent will. I would like to point out that the bill also takes into account the protection of the rights acquired by the investor. The legislator intends to achieve this objective by providing for a private tender procedure as a prerequisite for the conclusion of the concession contract necessary for the exercise of the activity. In addition to broadening the scope of private tendering procedures, the present proposal does not affect the rules on private tenders for defence or national security purposes, which would remain unchanged even after the adoption and entry into force of the proposal. Dear Parliament, The objective of the present proposal is only one, but very practical, to establish effective legal arrangements for superstructures established in areas, parks and other public areas belonging to the core assets of the municipalities. With the amendment envisaged in the bill, it would be possible for the parties to regulate their legal relationship in a concession contract in cases where ownership has not yet been registered. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, I would like to stress that the law on national assets does not give rise to the creation of shared ownership, so the proposal before us has an impact on this single concept. The rules of the concession effectively protect national assets, but also provide beneficial opportunities for the party to the concession. On the basis of what has been described in the proposal and what has now been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members to consider this proposal carefully. In view of what has been said in the expozee and in the speaker's speech, the Fidesz parliamentary group supports the proposal submitted. I would ask that the Parliament also support this at the final vote after the debate has been held. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-27-175	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-27-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When such a short bill comes before the House, we often wonder what the poet, the author, was thinking when he submitted it, why he submitted it now, because in the previous weeks there was an amendment to the law on national assets, a state-building investment, a number of legislative proposals behind which we must think something. Something must have happened. As has been said in the expozee and my fellow Member from the Danube said, this is an opportunity for the municipalities to participate in a private tender to conduct the concession procedures. I read it that way, but then I'm sure I don't have the same thing that you're obliged to write a private tender. You said it was an opportunity. I would like to ask whether this is really an option: is the concession procedure mandatory for the bodies belonging to the municipal tribe, or is it only an opportunity for the municipalities to carry out this procedure? In summary, I see, and I'm sorry, we're not talking about ice cream cones here, I think, in the public areas and parks of the municipalities, we're thinking about roads, we're thinking about mines. And speaking of mines, I'd like to put a very big question mark here. Why now, and why, did you bring in this bill-modifying proposal in this way? I'm sorry to assume that, but there's always the little devil behind us, hiding there, why this bill has to be presented to the House. And I apologize, but neither in the expo nor in the Fidesz lead speaker's speech have I received an answer, although I have tried very hard to listen. So my question is whether it is mandatory for the municipalities to apply for a private tender, or this is simply an opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-177	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, who will present the speaker's speech by the DK Group.
u2018-11-27-178	Thank you very much. I could say it's worth continuing in this mood. In fact, we have to ask the question of how his associates thought of Dirty Fred to stir it up or not to stir it up, because, after the submission of such a law, it is certainly necessary to consider that if they refer to the responsible management of national assets, then again, referring to the former character, it sounds very likely again what they are saying, so they are certainly lying. From this point of view, caution should be exercised when judging this law. You have argued that this is only an opportunity, while at this stage there is a binding requirement. Accordingly, we believe that you want to act as you refer to it, and we have our own experience of what you have done with the use of the concession. I'll start with one of the most commonly known. When, in a similar way, reference was made to how effectively you can apply this, tobacco trade was virtually liquidated and directed to those to whom you wanted it. We know that it is well known that this was the case with a political decision. They refer to this as an opportunity in a country where entrepreneurs were encouraged to invest, and in the next step, the entire industry was plowed, shut down and delivered to two dedicated people close to Fidesz. It is referred to in a country where you can only talk about it, and we should accept it. Therefore, I am very careful when you ask for the authority to assist entrepreneurs with a market monopoly in some highly advantageous form of contract. When you managed to do this, nothing good ever came out of it. [[18.30]] Therefore, the adoption of this law until it is worth understanding and revealing what is really important to you here in this regard, I certainly do not recommend supporting it. Especially because when it comes to the need for a private tender for defence and national security interests, you have abused these opportunities so much in recent years that it is unacceptable for you to have more and more opportunities in this regard. I therefore do not understand why the Government did not come in and carry out the necessary consultation that should have been carried out in this regard, but rather by a woman representing the amendment by her representatives. I cannot agree with that, and I do not support your acceptance. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-179	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó for two minutes.
u2018-11-27-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mónika Dunai! Be kind here in this debate to tell us where the inspiration came from when you were able to write this bill. So we have heard from the rapporteur, I think, his fellow Member who joined us, and all sorts of things, how to get a relatively long speech out of this bill. This bill is perfectly clear. They want to intervene once again in specific legal relations with a bill, with an amendment of the law. Be kind, my fellow Member of the Danube, to tell us who we can respect in this bill. Obviously, if there is a question of at least public interest behind the bill, then the opposition can also consider supporting it, because this text does not reveal anything in the world. But the only thing we can add until you tell us why you have the idea to write this bill and submit it to the walls of this House is what a specific case is, so where is the life situation, where is it? Is this a problem in Budapest, Kecskemét, Kákozószörtök the municipality can no longer handle itself, are we really talking about wooden bodegas or mines? So be kind to help us and make it clear that this law can be passed outside of you or Fidesn, because we do not even want to rule out that it is so, but we do not know it in its present form. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-181	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, MSZP.
u2018-11-27-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is a very intense day, and many people are interested, as incredible as this is for you in Parliament, I have fulfilled such an obligation, since during the morning several agricultural laws have been amended in the form of salad laws, and they are obviously smuggling into them the kinds of intentions that may have been made to serve their economic moonyards. That is why I have already said this morning that there is no value-based legislation here, but rather interest-based legislation, which can always be done at this stage of the year. So it's always obvious that the end of November is a time when, perhaps, before Christmas, they think that attention is fading, a lot of partial interest or what should I say? A more secret intention and a proposal to serve the interests of your clientship can be passed through the Parliament, which will not be sufficiently covered by the attention of society and the media. We have therefore discussed several of these proposals. This proposal, on which we can really talk a lot, but as Tamás Harangozó said before me, perhaps we should not, is very clear, it is very clear in what case shared property is created. There was a long talk here by the speakers before me, the authors, and it is very clear that, say, where appropriate, a private investor in a public area owned by a municipality, on the basis of a contract, raises or operates a building, and there was no municipal property later on on on on this structure, obviously in the case of a new, closed, restricted tender is planned to be proposed in this proposal later on. Obviously, the building may be invited to this tender by the operator, either the person will appear or not. So we apologize here now for raising this issue, but this is so specific in a life situation that it is quite certain that this is also part of interest-based governance and interest-based proposals. So somewhere or in one of the districts of Budapest, I don't know if the Christmas fairs period has anything to do with this, but maybe it doesn't, otherwise it should just be lit up if you think we're always too suspicious here, and we don't trust you enough, or if there's some kind of problem or conflict of interest in some other municipality, let's say, in the case of an entrepreneur, about which you want to deal with him or possibly put a new character in this way. So I think that perhaps there is nothing more worth talking about in the first round. I join the questions of Tamás Harangozó: whose interest is this proposal in? In order to be able to judge him specifically, yes, you could say that. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-183	Thank you, Congressman Varga. The next speaker is Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2018-11-27-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now starting my second term here in Parliament, and I have learned from the experience that, basically, debates can be divided into two large groups by the opposition, two kinds of attitudes can be distinguished. One is, and this is the majority, when the opposition criticises the content of a proposal, they go through the points on a variety of points, and there are some that they seem to have nothing wrong with, so with this proposal either, I presume, because they are not discussing its content, they are not talking about its content, their speeches are focused not on its content, but on the presentation, the method of referral and its circumstances. I think, however, that I am very happy to answer those questions, and I am also pleased that we have not received any criticism or further suggestions regarding the content of the bill. I think that everyone here in the Hungarian Parliament has the right to submit proposals according to the rules given. That is what you are doing, and that is what everyone in the Fidesz Group is doing, who is submitting proposals, proposals for decisions and legislative proposals. I am also very happy to respond, I have been working as a local government representative since 1990, I have come from the local government world, from local public life, from local politics. I think that to be taken away from the fact that a Member who has worked as a municipal representative for many years, I might say, for decades now, may be able to see how things are right from the local government's perspective, how things can go even better, how even more attention can be given to the interests of local governments. That is also the case in this proposal. When my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, asked what he was referring to: Hungary. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Then we do not support it!]] It applies to all the municipalities of Hungary, if they have such an opportunity or wish to conclude such agreements, and I think that there are two things that come together when we protect the municipal property and protect the national property as part of the national property, so that the two stories come together. [[18.40]] After all, the municipalities are responsible for the municipal property, which is part of the national property, and we all have an obligation to protect national property and to do everything we can to protect national property. The question that my colleague, Mrs Potocska, asked me was that it was an opportunity, not an opportunity, I said the possibility, not the way of the procedure, but in cases where the transfer of property has not yet taken place. In those cases, but already initiated procedures, there is a possibility for the municipality to leave the contract under the current rules, and the ownership or agreement will be completed as the municipality has agreed with the investor. Or they have the opportunity to turn this into a concession contract for pending cases after the law has entered into force. But of course, the additional points are indeed the closed tender... and here we are not just looking at the closed one, the tender is very important. Remember, when there weren't even tenders in the previous period. I think that these rules are all very, very well-defined, these are taking place under very strict control, and I ask you that if you see irregularities in these areas, everyone should be obliged to do so. Thank you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Péter Polt is the answer!]]
u2018-11-27-185	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2018-11-27-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to reply to Mónika Dunai that the same method has been used not only to focus the traffiks so to speak in one hand, but also to expropriate gambling and casinos and the online casino system. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and However, the protection of national property from your mouth, as a fidesz politician, when half of Balaton was stolen, is now being prepared to steal Lake Venice, several castles of Hungary have been stolen and taken as a narrow circle, so be careful, Congresswoman, that this House is not stolen from the top of our heads because it is now the only thing that can be taken away by Fidesz politicians. Madam Congresswoman stood up and said that she would answer the questions that my fellow Members had asked. You didn't answer, Congresswoman. They asked what particular issue this amendment was needed. He didn't answer. We'd like to know, and we might even understand it, because imagine, regardless of whether you've been a council rep since 90 and then you're in your second term, the other people aren't stupid. The average citizen is not stupid, and even though he is not a local government representative, he may have something to do with municipal matters, as a local resident and as a national of Hungary. It's not just the representatives of the local government who have something to do with this. And what we're doing is trying to draw attention to what kind of robbery you've been doing for eight years through different laws. 'Cause you're gonna make sure these thefts are legitimized inside the House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-187	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Next speaker, Mr János Volner.
u2018-11-27-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worthwhile for the opposition to examine this bill and understand its substance. In the case of defence and national security interests, this law obliges municipalities to apply for a private tender. What could it be? Ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to give you a specific example of this case. We're going to, say, a busy area in downtown, whether this is Vörösmarty Square, where, by chance, a businessman near the government has a $16 billion investment, and I didn't have that kind of money on a block, so I'm not the investor, and if there's an official building in this public area, let's say, an official building, where there might be a defence or national security interest that could conflict with someone's ownership, let's be honest, then the rules in this area can be rewritten with a private tender. You can get it, you can give it to a concession, you can get practically a tight circle, you can get a sufficiently reliable circle of property with a reasonable discount, or you can get it inside a concession contract. This in itself is a serious competitive advantage, especially in the case of a large investment in the city. I would ask both Mónika Dunai and Mr Bajkai to show us that in this particular case, for example, in Budapest, Vörösmarty Square, this legislation could be implemented, that, by the way, this is a public area, which I have looked at, in particular, at the public area managed by the capital, which is owned by the capital, with a single stroke, this can be transferred to the hands of the state with a priority state investment or a priority national economy interest, and thus the possibility of a provision over the public area can be obtained. I consider this particularly justified, for example, the example of the Kopasi Dam to be here for you in view of the past. What's happening? One minute it is not possible to build a high-rise, and the next second, the value of a public area in its former state of decay is assessed several times by changing its classification and changing its requirements. Suddenly, a high house can be built in an area where a panorama of the world heritage is also affected by the construction. So I think that the opposition concerns, which are vague enough here and which were far less specific than those raised by me, were, in my view, well-founded concerns, and I would respectfully ask the two pro-government Members who deal with the proposal in substance to give a meaningful response to the concerns expressed here, to be kind and to discuss what can be done in order to resolve this issue in a satisfactory way for everyone. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-189	Thank you, Congressman Volner. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Are you trying to close, or...? Here you go, Congressman Bajkai.
u2018-11-27-190	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that the house rules give rise to the sharing of the closings in the case of several authors. That's what we want to live with now.
u2018-11-27-191	Live with it.
u2018-11-27-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, My fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, has actually highlighted the essence of opposition speeches, so to speak, and the point is that I would like to emphasise the substance of the proposal for a legislative amendment: there was no substantive objection, substance or legal objection. Why is that important? Because it is clear from the bill that, in relation to the legislation on national assets and the prohibition of shared ownership as a so-called option in relation to the possibility of concessions, a stronger legal separation in rem law or obligation which better protects the assets will take place. I am sure that my fellow Members are aware that, in terms of construction and land use, shared property, when rights in rem conflict with each other, always means a meeting of stronger rights than a right in rem, property meets obligations, such as a concession contract. This is what we are talking about: strengthening the so-called obligation legislation, and drafting clear legislative provisions in that direction. If this may not have been clear to the honourable Members, then I am underlining this: the conflict of rights in rem or the conflict between the law in rem and the law of obligations decides that the direction of the regulation strengthens the protection of state, apologies, municipal property and, in general, property. [[18.50]] I would simply say to my fellow Member, Mr Varju, that he did not make any specific objections to the legislation either, but he just suggested that, in general, we abuse the legislation so to speak, which, of course, I strongly reject. I would just like to remind you that, if I remember correctly, Tibor Tátrai, who was released from prison in June of this year, In connection with Zsolt Császy and Ferenc Gyurcsány, who strongly defends them, there has indeed been an abuse of the right to concession, and the court also expressed its emphasis on the imposition of prison sentences. So, in your line of work, I generally reject any criticism of concession law by looking back at their own past. Moreover, my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, has made it clear that, even in this case, when it comes to legislation on the protection of assets, strengthening the rights of the local government, your position is completely incomprehensible, that this important interest, this important regulatory sphere, is being attacked on what basis and what doubts are being expressed at all. I would like to reiterate that this was quite clear from the presentation, however, that, given the principle of aedificium solo cedit, it has always been an exceptional possibility that land use will also become a property issue and the Aedifium established on it, so that the superstructure will also be registered as a real-estate right in the real-estate register. Now, in the legislative process, we are thinking, and I think that this is a fully eligible position, that in such a case, the concession contract as a legal entity should be contrary to the reality of rem. I believe that this is a strengthening of the protection of wealth, and I believe that any criticism in this regard is unfounded. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-11-27-193	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. I give the floor to the other author, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2018-11-27-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It seems to me that it is worth a little more time on the subject of opportunity and on the subject of that word. Either there is a problem with understanding the written text or hearing understanding, or somehow the two are not compatible, but I think it is worth illuminating, because perhaps we can persuade our fellow Members to support our bill for the protection of national wealth and predictability. If the parties agree, so the municipality and the investor can jointly establish a concession contract in that case. And the possibility is here, which is whether you can choose to move to a concession or not. It's an opportunity, no matter how we count it, no matter how we talk about it. Therefore, the concession procedure and the tender may be chosen if both parties agree and so wish. Therefore, the investor cannot decide that he would like to pursue a concession procedure and take part in such a scheme, but the municipality cannot oblige the investor to do so either. If both are involved in this, then the concession procedure, the rules of which are closed tenders, can begin. Another question that has been raised here is why closed applications are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, It would cause uncertainty, uncertainty, if, in the tender option, let us say, the person, the investor who has already built something, who has already prepared something, when the municipality wants to create a concession contract, might be able to stay out of it in some way. It is in everyone's interest to build, to make the country beautiful, including Budapest and all the cities, all the towns, the small villages everywhere, the guarantee lies in the fact that the market depends on two: if investors are supported by the Hungarian economy, supported by the local authorities, and we provide a legal environment that we can help in this matter, then I think it is our duty to do so. So it would be abuse to exclude from the tender, from the concession procedure, investors who have already invested something are prepared. This bill is also a guarantee. Allow me to return to my colleague Bangóné's speech for a moment. You mention who steals what, you mention what's missing? On the one hand, we do not see the legal consequences of this, anyone can talk about anything and anywhere at any time. This, I think, must have consequences, if there is abuse, these are court matters. I know a lot of cases where people from your party or your party's family have been executed by a court order, even after a serious investigation. What are these, if not abuse, theft, fraud, and lies? ! And one last thing: do you speak, who stole Hungary's future? ! [[Voices from the opposition benches: Let's not do this.]]
u2018-11-27-195	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the organisation of working time and the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work until closure. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs Kristóf Szatmáry, Lajos Kósa and Gábor Bányai T/3628. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-11-27-196	Mr. President. Dear House, Hungary has proved in recent years that it is able to build a competitive economy, operate it, and find the regulations, economic policy, and the means by which it is not, as it were, following the model and advice of Western European countries. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes!]] not following the advice of the IMF and the European Commission, but building a successful economy. This was called unorthodox economic policy, not that there is an orthodox economic policy that Hungary often has different ways of choosing different instruments. It is absolutely clear that if we can help the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian economy and its companies by regulatory means, we can make it more efficient and competitive, then we need to grasp this, since regulation is the cheapest among economic policy instruments, and we can help Hungarian companies with clever regulation. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes!]] The strengthening of companies and the economy is in the highest interest of workers, because if there is no strong economy, if there is no strong and developing companies, there is no employment, and if there is no employment, it is not good for workers. The Fidesz government has set itself the goal of achieving full employment in Hungary [[Antal Csárdi: 110 percent!]] , i.e. those who can work should find a job, and there are no unnecessary bureaucratic rules hindering the possibility of working. [[19.00]] The two legislative proposals that I have tabled are because we are discussing them together, but there are two issues that propose such a regulation. I do not claim that the proposal cannot be improved, and I sincerely say that I am open to different approaches and proposals if they do not divert the main purpose and direction of the bill. And, of course, after the bill is submitted to the House, so there is a text, there is something to talk about, so I will also carry out the necessary consultations on these proposals, including workers' organisations and employers' organisations. There is only one parentheses note here: I think that many times there is a misinterpretation of the process of parliamentary work to demand that opposition parties and various organisations also agree the proposals in advance before the submission. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's written in the legislative law!]] This is a misunderstanding, because the process and essence of Parliament's work is this: we have the proposal, we have the text, we have something to talk about, it reflects [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] the intention of the legislator, the intention of the author, and, of course, the competence debate will begin, the general debate will start, and of course, the logic of Parliament's work is that there is sufficient time for us to have this discussion with the relevant organisations here, and tomorrow I will meet with the leaders of the large trade union associations, while other organisations have been looking for it, employers' organisations have also been looking for me, and in this connection we will have a proposal to amend, if necessary, the original text, and at the end of which Parliament, otherwise Parliament will still be able to consult, decide whether or not to accept the proposal. [[A statement from the opposition.]] In this context, therefore, we are not doing some textless, basically without character and proposal infinite discussion about the fact that we have not yet defined what we want to do, and in this spirit I have put forward two proposals once again: I am open to better-meaning solutions. Of course, it is difficult to do anything about Armageddon, collapse, horror, wage slavery, exploitation or I don't know what you're doing, probably knocking up the agitating propagandaist brochures of the '70s, because it is pointless in the sense that the proposal I put forward didn't come up with the need to invent hot water again, the practice of European, otherwise competitive countries contains very much similar solutions. [[A statement from the opposition.]] So, for example, in Germany, there are similar proposals and mechanisms [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, there's a union there, of course.]] Which means that if there is, of course, wage slavery and exploitation in Germany, then, of course, it will be in Germany, but if it is not in Germany, then it will not be in Germany. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Intercoms from the opposition.]] Turning to the specific proposals: one of my proposals concerns organisations and companies engaged in working time management and work and human labour policy, namely, today's system is that if an employer is on a working time schedule with its employees, in principle, it can impose 250 hours of overtime in one year, which is more than eight hours a day, five days a week, 40 hours a week, but in terms of a 12-month timeframe, it has to be settled, and it has to come up in the whole period, which is mandatory for us as well, and we do not want to change it, eight hours of work, five days a week of work, and my proposal does not want to change that. Here the framework for accounting is the key issue. If we look at the current regulation, the collective agreement, if it differs from the possibility of ordering 250 hours of overtime and determines this in 300 terms by the legislator, i.e. by leaving it to the collective agreement, is possible to order 300 hours of work over the 12 months period, with the fact that at the end of the accounting period the original statutory working time required for workers must come. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And if it's liquidated, then what?!]] My suggestion is that these 300 possible hours of work should go up to 400, and the accounting period should be 36 months, so it should be three years. Of course, I do not want to do this while we are giving employees the full benefit of the employer, and in this sense, in the proposal, I can see that there is something to be strengthened, because it is necessary to give employers the tools to avoid being unevenly negotiated with the employee in terms of working time and making use of it. A number of solutions are possible, and I have received this, and two major trade union associations from the sector have also sent their proposals, one being that 400 hours, similar to the current regulation, should be allowed only if the collective agreement allows this, because, yes, there is a mutual agreement; but there is another possibility, which has also been raised, namely, that the system should remain within the current framework, i.e. 250 hours, 300 if it is a collective agreement, and 400 hours of work is only possible, so that the extra 100 hours if the employee undertakes it, so that there is some way of strengthening the employee's independent decision, referring to the fact that a number of companies have either no collective agreements or are not organised sufficiently, and there is clearly no way to start with it, but at that time we want to ensure a bargaining position for employees. This proposal assumes that there are a number of companies in the economy that carry out production and services for which seasonality is typical in different logics: either regulated by demand or seasonal production due to other conditions. Summa summarum, the point of the matter is that there is a high demand for service, for goods, and it is only possible to satisfy it with excess work, and in other periods there is not enough order, there is not enough service demand, and then there is no need to employ such a large workforce. If companies were to resolve this by making such a system of adjustment for the hours of work, the income of employees would be difficult to predict, showing such a monthly or quarterly wave. This is precisely why the working time-frame is designed to pay the employees, which is laid down in the contract, so that if the employer is unable to give them as much work, but less, 6 hours, 5 hours at certain stages, in exchange for certain stages, the employer asks them not to do 8 hours, but to do more, and this must be accounted for within a period of time, I recommend 36 months. [[Turdai Bence: Why?! Why?!]] This, in my view, and according to my discussions, is essentially enough time for almost all companies in the Hungarian economy, so there is no longer time. [[Bence of Turdai: Oh, good. Intercoms and information from the opposition.]] The fact is that 36 months of working time accounting is a practice known in many countries of the European Union. For example, when it comes to the competitiveness of the Slovak economy in Hungary, I have to say that we always forget that there, for example, under the rules on workers, even less favourable constructions than the proposal I have submitted are known. [[Ander Balázs: For example, the minimum wage is one third higher!]] I do not want to follow them, I would like employers and workers to be able to reach some kind of win-win agreement based on mutual interests. [[Dr. László Varga: How?!]] I therefore believe that my proposal will not be general, because it is only true for certain companies, in certain economic sectors, that this periodicity is fundamental to labour management. [[19.10]] In any case, it is very interesting, but I would like to point out to my fellow opposition Members that, by the way, a number of employees' organisations have applied for it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: How do you like it?]] that if we put them in a bargaining position, otherwise this regulation is acceptable to them, because they think that there is something to ask them to do with the wage deal and that is why they have something to ask the company for. After all, it is clear that it is in everyone's interest to catch up on wages in Hungary to the average of the European Union. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why? No? That's what you said!]] In the last eight years, this has started spectacularly, as opposed to, say, eight years of socialist governance. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because not so many have wandered away, that's why!]] which, by the way, from 2005 onwards, net real wages decreased each year compared to the previous year, and this was the head of the economic crisis. [[Noise, interruptions.]] This was further developed by the socialist government at the time, in order for workers to have a greater interest in life with the withdrawal of 13 months' wages and the withdrawal of 13 months' pensions. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We will talk about this in a moment!]] Because the social sensibilities of the socialists only extend to the need to take money from people. I believe that this proposal, of course, once again, may contain a number of aspects in the negotiations, and I hope that my fellow Members will also submit the appropriate amendments, which reflect their views. In any case, I hope this proposal will help to further strengthen the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, but at the same time allow Hungarian workers to... [[His mic's falling off.]] I'm sorry. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It can't stand it anymore! Lajos Kósa puts his microphone on.]] If they contribute and find this beneficial, they can work in a work framework that the employer offers them. This is one of the elements of my proposal. The other element is another, but not irrelevant, sector, which applies to temporary agency companies in terms of atypical employment. We know how to hire a job. The temporary agency enters into a business contract with the employer to provide it with workers, but the employee is employed with the temporary agency, not with the employer, but with the employer. There are roughly 450-500 thousand employees who are employed in Hungary through temporary employment. This is due to its flexibility and the removal of HR costs, i.e. the administrative burden on human labour, on people's employment, is removed from the actual employer, and this is something that is rather liked in the Hungarian market. Of course, the Hungarian Government has decided that the minimum wage and minimum wage laid down in the relevant government decree should be available to all employees everywhere. However, in atypical employment cases, how can I put it? There are gaps in the shield, and I've made several suggestions, which all serve to tighten these gaps in some way, plug them in. In the previous cycle, I proposed that there should be a minimum service fee for student cooperatives, which should be calculated in the government decree, so that the minimum service fee for which the student association takes up the work should allow students to pay the minimum wage after the work carried out. If the student has a degree in skilled labour, since they also go to university from a vocational secondary school, then the minimum wage for skilled workers, the contributions due to him, if any, and the payment of the tax. If they do so at a lower price, it is clear to the contrary that they will not pay taxes or that students will not be paid. This has been accepted by Parliament, and we have fully extended this to pensioners' cooperatives, and I would now like to extend it to temporary agency companies. Unfortunately, by borrowing labour, about 20 percent of the market is predictable that it tends to work at lower prices than it can pay the minimum wage, contributions and taxes. There are all kinds of tricks to do this, everyone knows that, because on paper there are 6 hours of work and 4 hours of work, and then they say that the employment is 4 hours, so on a check, they say that, of course, you can pay the 4 hours' wages, not 8 hours, of course; of course, they are employed in 8 hours. And then there's this type of business that keeps up appearances for a while, so he pays his employees, he doesn't pay taxes, and then he breaks down these companies. The most well-known or notorious point in the case of student associations is your colleague. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Watch your mouth, Lajos!]] , his loyal friend, his arms bearer and the organizer of activists, Comrade Czeglédy and his entrepreneurship empire, and of course these anomalies also occur in connection with temporary employment. The proposal I have made is very simple, says that we should set minimum service fees for temporary agency workers, so that we can be sure that everyone gets the minimum wage in atypical employment as well. In particular, the minimum wage for skilled workers is interesting, because, by the way, it is customarily above the minimum wage that temporary workers provide work, another question is whether they pay it or not. I hope this is also supported by Parliament, because we are working together to ensure that the minimum wage prevails fully in the world of work, and where we see anomalies, tax evasion, avoidance or deception of people. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is there such a thing?]] That's what we're gonna stop. Please support both elements of my proposal [[Antal Csárdi laughs. Dániel Z. Carpathian: I am convinced! Defiance.]] Let us help improve the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, and let us make it possible for those who want to work not to be hindered by administrative burdens. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-27-197	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kósa. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak for the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-27-198	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Indeed, the Government of Hungary has set the goal of increasing the number of employees in the population significantly, the Hungarian labour market being one of the most flexible in Europe, and the number of businesses to employ and create new jobs. I think that we can definitely agree with this goal. These objectives were to be achieved by the new Labour Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2012. Experience with the effective functioning and practical application of the Code rules is clearly being examined by the government. This bill also aims to address and solve problems in practical life. In the case of the application of the working time limit, the employer shall have the possibility of an unequal schedule of working time within a specified period and at the same time of partial pooling of rest periods. The use of unequal working time arrangements is regulated by detailed rules, which employers must comply with when applying the working time limit. In accordance with the rules in force, the working time limit is limited to four months, for certain working schedules six months, and can be set up by collective agreement for a maximum of one year. However, experience in recent years has shown that this time limit is not adapted to longer production cycles, such as modern production. At present, workers may not be available in an appropriate number of hours to perform a task during the running-up stage during the variable-intensity operation, and in the downtime, there may be an unfortunate event that employers are unable to provide them with enough work. Businesses with a volatile production cycle are currently adapting to the situation by resigning, where appropriate, to workers who become temporarily redundant. Employees are also in an uncertain position in companies that operate in this way, as they may lose their jobs in periods of low labour intensity. The proposal therefore allows both parties to develop long-term, balanced working conditions. The amendment of the Labour Code serves to organise the working order for a longer period, which is flexible for production. The proposed legislation allows for a time frame for the schedule of hours used and unused to be established within a 36-month working time frame, which has already been tested in international practice. [[19.20]] The proposal therefore does not aim to increase the volume of work. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In the longer working time frame, guaranteeing employers' obligations for the protection of workers have been included in the proposal. The amendment will record the weekly working time on which the unequal working time schedule is based and the weekly working time on average of 12 months should not exceed 48 hours, including extraordinary work. In order to ensure healthy and safe work, the proposal also strengthens the provisions on rest periods for longer working hours. The proposal also provides for a regular monthly wage for the employee, if the longer framework is applied, so that during the whole period he is paid the salary specified in his contract, even when he does not work all his working hours and when his employer orders him more than the specified hours of work. The extra wage for overtime is extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra extra Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, However, the most important aspect of the proposal in relation to the regulation of the working time framework is that the options outlined above will only become a rule if employers and workers agree on this. The longer working time limit only provides for derogations from the general rules for the organisation of working time in the case of the collective agreement on this matter. Consequently, the law only allows for a longer working time framework for businesses where the social partners regulate working conditions by collective agreement. In the regulation of flexible employment, it is up to the government to establish a framework for work and to ensure the guarantee interests of workers. However, further development of regulation should allow for agreement between the parties and increase opportunities for individual and collective autonomy. In the context of the proposal, there is a need for a more flexible solution in terms of the positive economic processes and labour market needs in the area of working time management, which also takes account of workers' interests. The proposed legislation will further develop the existing labour legislation for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, A further amendment to the bill before you is to increase the maximum number of extraordinary working hours that can be ordered. The prescribed exceptional working hours, i.e. the length of overtime, are partly indirectly and partly directly limited by the law in force, so that it cannot become territorial. The proposal now raises the level of direct restriction. The indirect limitation, which sets the maximum daily and weekly working hours limit, does not change, allows the possibility to make more use of the possibility of overwork on an annual basis within the framework already established. Exceptional work is not solely in the interests of the employer. Employees occasionally work for longer periods in exchange for overwork compensated by higher remuneration or possibly extra leisure time in the normal workplace. According to the rules of the working time register, the employer is obliged to record the overtime allowed by the law, not to hide it, thereby increasing the protection of workers. This will be regulated according to good practice in international labour law. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time does not provide for the maximum amount of overtime. The directive merely says that overwork must be limited. The Directive provides that for a period of seven days the average working time, including overtime, may not exceed 48 hours. Both the existing Labour Code and the proposed amendment therefore comply with the provisions of the Working Time Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, A further substantial amendment to the bill before you is to authorise the government to set the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work in a regulation. The government fully agreed with the aim of the bill, as the introduction of a minimum rental fee for temporary agency work could indeed contribute to the payment of post-wage public charges, thereby crowding out the tax avoidance which unfortunately exists on this market. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to ensure that temporary agency workers have access to the guaranteed minimum wage, minimum wage, through the definition of the rental fee. Rental of workers is a form of so-called atypical employment compared to the general rules of employment. This employment is also subject to the general rule that, as a basic wage, workers cannot be paid less than the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage. It is in the primary interest of all workers to have full access to the remuneration of the work carried out on the pay day. The establishment of a minimum borrowing fee will eliminate in future the risk of setting a fee below the wage level in the context of the borrowing and borrowing market deal, thereby ensuring safe payment of wages. The minimum rental fee serves to ensure a combination of the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage and the related public burden, so that the borrower and the borrower will not be interested in tax avoidance. It is also necessary to introduce a minimum rental fee because temporary agency companies compete on the same market between school cooperatives and pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, for which the minimum service fee has already been regulated. The bill takes action at the same time to protect wages and prevent tax evasion, so it is fully in line with government efforts. On the subject of the amendment, I stress that we are calling for collective agreements, and there are examples of this abroad. I would ask you to make your comments and suggestions so that a bill for the purposes of the Hungarian economy can be adopted by everyone. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-199	Thank you very much, Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-27-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The government, in conjunction with the Fidesz fraction, considers strengthening the Hungarian business sector as a priority task, and the main aim of the business development policy is to increase the added value of domestic companies by strengthening the investment, productivity and competitiveness of domestic companies. If we look back on the business-friendly policy of the last few years, then we can see that cooperation with the entrepreneurial sector has made great progress in many areas, noting that entrepreneurs pay less tax every year, it is enough to think that Hungarian companies pay the lowest, 9 percent corporate tax in the European Union. But a word, like a hundred, thanks to the measures, economic results, stability and balance of growth show that the country is moving in the right direction, and we can also support this with this 5 percent economic growth. However, here I think that we cannot stop, we cannot sit back, so we want to further improve the competitiveness of the business sector. It is well-known that businesses play an important role in the country's income production and employment, given that they are taking their share of the job creation beyond their power and that it is particularly important to increase their competitiveness. At present, however, Hungarian businesses face challenges such as increasing productivity, addressing labour demand and, not least, improving competitiveness. Measures to this effect include, inter alia, the development of labour law legislation, such as the proposal containing this amendment. As Mr Lajos Kósa has already said, in recent years there has been a need for domestic businesses to establish working time arrangements according to production cycles. At this point, I would like to emphasise that this is not a very important element of the proposal to increase the volume of work, that the worker is not under a disproportionate burden, because the longer working time limit can only be fixed within the framework of a collective agreement, or that the average weekly working time should not exceed 48 hours. The bill also empowers the government, in order to protect the interests of workers, to ensure that the minimum wage and the minimum wage guaranteed are fully applicable in the employment relationship for temporary agency purposes, in order to strengthen legal employment. [[19.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the life of an enterprise, planning is of paramount importance, ensuring an adequate business environment, long-term planning for the management of wages and working time. The proposed draft law aims at creating working conditions which, according to the agreement of the directly interested parties at a given workplace, serve a secure livelihood for workers and, at the same time, provide an adequate production environment for employers and employers in the long term. This can also contribute to increasing employment levels and reducing unemployment in the competition sector, as the main objective of employment policy has been to achieve full employment since 2010 and, thanks to the measures taken so far, we have already managed to get close to this, as this is already below 4 percent. We believe, on the part of the Fidesz fraction, that moving forward on this path is an essential condition for creating a regulatory environment that will create flexible working time management conditions, with a view to protecting workers' rights, so that businesses can be set up in a stable way. This bill serves these goals well and is therefore supported by the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-201	Thank you, Congressman Attila Barcza. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Pintér, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-27-202	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It's absurd, it's lifeless, it's unprofessional, it's anti-family, it's unacceptable, it's unthinkable. These signs were used by voters to amend the Code of Work. Of course, you could have heard these ratings if you had consulted trade unions and employers before submitting them, but in the system of national cooperation you would rather have spared yourself the legitimate slaps received from advocacy organisations. Congressman Kósa told me that you will receive this tomorrow. Since I have been a Member of Parliament, I have almost never seen my fellow members of the Government decide on a professional basis, yet I am trying to convince you, with sound and thoughtful arguments, to dig the grave of the Hungarian working society if you accept the proposed amendment. What does your draft mean for employees? If you vote in favour of this amendment, an average worker can be much less with his family. I understand that the year for families ends at the end of 2018, but no one expected 2019 to be the year for families. You are authorising companies to take another 50 days away from Hungarian workers each year in addition to normal working hours. Fifty days, which they could otherwise spend with their families, their children, and their mates. Raising the overtime from 250 hours to 400 hours means that people can be invited to work every Saturday. I would like to know why the Hungarian people were not asked about this during the national consultation. The other disastrous aspect of the amendment is that they want to make the Hungarian workers fully exploitable by law, since the increase of the working time limit from 12 months to 36 months is only for this purpose. This means that employers would be able to account for workers on average over three years. Have you thought about what happens when a company goes bankrupt, and someone spends two or three years not getting a penny for extra work? Or what happens if the company claims to have lost money and doesn't pay its employee? I don't think so, because if you think about it, you probably don't even write down these nonsense. I see that you do not care about the health aspect of the amendment. Your design allows a factory worker working under difficult conditions to do up to 14 months of work in 12 months. With a robot like that, you get tired physically, your body gets weak, and you get sick because you're overworked. The Hungarian health waiting lists are negative for patients anyway, so the recovery of the worker will be longer. He falls out of work, so he must be replaced by his colleagues, who will be even more burdened and physically more vulnerable. Or do you expect the workers to complete the extra day of work that you're proposing, even if you're sick? But let us consider this proposal from another professional point of view. Over the past few years, 600,000 people have left the country for better job opportunities. However, one thing we can already envelop: the process of emigration will only be enhanced by voting in favour of this amendment. For a young beginner, it is important to have predictable working conditions. The important thing for him is to get decent wages after decent work and be with his family after working days. If you don't get this at home, you'll find it somewhere else. But the middle - aged person will also look elsewhere, because the important thing for him is that he does not suffer health problems. These people choose a country where normal working conditions are expected and not full exploitation is the goal of state aid. If I didn't raise the overtime, but the wages, our emigrated compatriots would come home and the labour shortage would disappear. There may be fewer stadiums, less visual investment, but they could be home, working under fair conditions for our relatives. However, we also need to see that not everyone is upset about the planned changes in the Labour Code. Some would be particularly pleased to see the draft, otherwise called the Slave Law, being implemented. And these are nothing more than multinational corporations. The companies in North Rhine-Westphalia, which invested in Hungary, clearly welcomed the legislative proposals of the Hungarian government. This was said by Péter Szijjártó Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade on Monday in Düsseldorf. On one side, trade unions bringing thousands of people together protest against completely unwarranted changes, and on the other side there are joyful multinationals, who look forward to drawing more skin off Hungarian workers with government assistance. And what side will you take if you accept the amendments? On the side of the multinationals instead of Hungarian handiworkers. This has been the case several times, and it is enough to think only about the abolition of early retirement and the right to strike. Or that the resources resulting from the reduction of contributions were not made compulsory for companies to include them in wages, so it did not show anything on the worker's side, but more on the multi-party side. Finally, their last move is to take the cafeteria. It's quite amazing how disrespectful they are of the people that you should represent. You were sent to serve the nation's temple. You can work in such working conditions because you have been trusted by voters. Aren't you ashamed to sell your country and the time and health of the two-handed workers working in it for pennies? I ask you not to betray the Hungarian workers again and to make your already difficult situation worse by further evisceration. If you don't listen to reason, then please listen to your heart. Would you like to let your child go to school with a bus driver with a 12- to 14-hour shift behind him? Would you like to take a train with your family whose leader couldn't rest himself properly? Would you like only one day off a week for your family? It's been a long time since Fidesz has completely separated from reality and doesn't feel the problem of ordinary people. I am very happy to help Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry return to reality. Please both come to the Dunaújváros ironworks and work a couple of shifts there. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Wind Bernadett and Antal Csárdi applaud.]] Or, please, go to Hankook, Rácalmás and absorb the chemicals on a 12- to 14-hour working day. Experience what it means to work for 100-200 thousand forints! I wonder if Mr Kósa would then continue to say such nonsense that the amendment was in the interests of the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, All employers experience a huge shortage of labour in Hungary, and we know that there is a big problem, which threatens the Hungarian economy in the long term. However, labour shortages need to be addressed not by increasing hours of work, but by increasing salaries. [[19.40]] In the 1950s, the state had to work for free on communist Saturdays, and after your proposal, you will have to slave with extra loads for the benefit of the multinationals, with unpredictable remuneration. That is why I would like to ask the pro-government representatives: instead of the multinationals, finally stand by the Hungarian workers and serve their interests! Instead of multinationals, please stand next to the Hungarian families and do not tear them apart! Instead of filling the pockets of the multinationals, raise the salary and wages of Hungarian workers to the level that is worth working for them at home five days a week! Your proposal is not only against workers and workers, but also against family and life. Please stop eviscerating the Hungarian two-handed workers, and please do not vote for the slave law. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-203	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Pintér. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is presented by two representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2018-11-27-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, You can't basically find words after what Lajos Kósa has said here in his national comment. Then I say slowly, simply, in Hungarian, Mr Kósa: this is the slave law. That's it. Orbán and Fidesz cheated and betrayed the Hungarian people. In fact, he sells Hungarian people, their work and their lives as a simple merchant with this law. It is clear, Mr Kósa, that with this law, not only do you admit it, but you are proud to proclaim it by Fidesz: you are on the side of exploiters, foreign multinationals and oligarchs instead of decent working Hungarians. If it were not quite clear how right we are, then I think the shame that Peter Szijjártó has done in the last few days makes it really clear. That we haven't even started the debate of this law, because we are doing this here in Parliament at 3:45 p.m. on Tuesday, Monday, he was proud to sell Hungarian people in Germany for thirty pieces of silver money, or only God knows why. Once again, the working hours of Hungarian workers, their lives and health. Honestly, Mr. Kósa, aren't you ashamed? Four hundred hours of overtime? Like a day off a month? A three-year account for all this? Says you guys? Your billionaire prime minister? The lead squad of 133 well-paid Fidesz congressmen sitting here right now? At work to discuss why Hungarian people should overwork 400 hours? Why should Hungarians, even once a month, have freedom to survive their lives? You're the heroes of the job. You spoke here, Mr. Kósa, about German employment. He talked about the German economy and other circumstances. Really, God bless you, do you know how much the minimum wage is in Germany? Not the average wage, minimum wage? 486 thousand forints, Mr. Kósa. Do you know what mandatory hours are? 35 hours, and now in February 3.9 million German workers, among other things in the field of electronics, fought for 28 hours of mandatory working hours for German workers from 1 January. You prescribe 48 hours, and even under the influence of this law, Hungarian workers, your voters, our countrymen will be able to be eviscerated. That's what your law says. And are you surprised that there is a shortage of workers in Hungary? That you're running away from here, everyone, like Germany, where you have to work 35 hours a week for a minimum wage of $480,000? And then maybe you can enjoy your life and your family? Do you have the guts to start having a baby? Mr Kósa, in 2017, a similar scoundrel law was once submitted to Parliament and you withdrew it. [[For signal:]] Then it was Erik Bánki, yes, the petitioner. At the committee meeting, Sándor Czomba, former Secretary of State responsible for this area, Vice-President of the Committee, asked for this law to be brought back here after the elections. They lied, and they cheated people. Mr Kósa, there is only one decent way here, and do not waste your time waiting for discussions and opposition amendments. There is only one fair way to deal with this law: to withdraw it quickly with your fellow Member. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-27-205	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2018-11-27-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not gonna run Louis Kósa, he's a long way from that, and he's getting further away from it. You know, my fellow Member, I was looking forward to coming to the committee meeting yesterday with Kristóf Szatmáry. They were so cowardly, they didn't even dare do that. You now refer to your announcement that you will be negotiating with union leaders, union representatives tomorrow. This is not even cynical anymore, but the complete disdain of Hungarian workers. He is negotiating with them that on Monday, at a committee meeting, the Fidesz people voted in favour of this amendment to bring it to Parliament. Unlike in 2017, when it was already voted out on the committee. And then here today, we will discuss it at 7:45 p.m., and there are four Fidesz MPs from 133. And you claim to be negotiating with the union tomorrow. I don't know how you read the news, Lajos Kósa, let me read you a little bit. The Free Trade Union of Railway Workers and the Hungarian Doctors' Union also object to the Fidesz amendment proposal, which increases the working time limit from one to three years, the overtime that can potentially be appointed by up to 300 hours of work under the current 250 collective agreements to 400 hours. I'm not reading the article completely. You know, my fellow Member, when someone lends money to someone, they pay interest, they charge interest. And there are times when interest rates are even charged, because the authentic is below the repayment of the loan. You know, these words were sent to me by a citizen that you force employees to lend to the employer for up to three years, to lend their own work force so that they may never get paid for it. I also told the committee that if the company disappears, it means bankruptcy, we have seen it in Hungary not once or twice, then what will happen to the employee? Of course, you'll wash your hands. Congressman has already told me that the minimum wage in Germany is HUF 486 thousand. 486 thousand forints! When you referred to the Germans and told my fellow Member how much work is needed for a German. You know, you threw away the Hungarian workers to the Germans. As much as the German workers have received a discount, they are now collecting it on Hungarian workers. I think that when you proclaim that 2018 is the year of families, and believe me that I will soon know from outside what this filth contains, this filth you are sending out to everyone. [[He's showing me a printed paper.]] Because I don't even know what to do with it anymore, because I don't want to tear it up every day in plenary. [[To the intervention of Lajos Kósa:]] Eat it yourself, Lajos Kósa, okay? Allow me. [[19.50]] Point 9 tells this abomination that children's interests often fall into the background. The Fundamental Law of Hungary provides that parents are obliged to take care of their minor children. Do you hear me, Congressman? They're obligated, according to you. According to many, this should be complemented by the right of the child to grow up in his family, possibly with the loving care of his mother and father. What are you talking about when you're forced to work six days? Six days a week. I would add, Lajos Kósa, you are from Hajdú-Bihar County, as Secretary of State, and you know very well how companies eviscerate Hungarian workers. They still work six days, often 12 hours instead of eight hours. And it's eight o'clock and they're paid for and five days. You're not doing anything about it. It can be eviscerated. What are they doing? They legitimize letting them work more. And send out such filth that the child has the right to his father and his mother? ! Seriously, I don't know what else they can describe, what else they can send to the Hungarian families! Several people have spoken to me about emigration. We should consider what causes the shortage of workers. 600,000 Hungarians did not leave Hungary! This means that what you are looking for is that much more people have left Hungary! These data aren't true. And they are not dealing with what my good-looking and MSZP fellow Members have already said about how to solve this problem. Give me a raise, give me a minimum wage of 486 thousand forints for everyone, and then they'll come home. Give people a decent salary, and our children, our young ones, will come home. No, what you're preparing is that every second 18-year-old who wants to leave this country doesn't even give them a chance. They don't want to be slaves to this country. In fact, they are not slaves of the country, Viktor Orbán, Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry! Let me ask Lajos Kósa: and from the BMW, from the first series of cars, you get the first one as a gift? Because for some reason, this law was very important to you. That after 2017, after you took it off at the committee meeting, you are now back in 18. Yeah, we know the BMW factory is moving to Debrecen. Is that what this is worth to us, Lajos Kósa? That's it? Enough to sell everyone just to get a factory to come here? Of course, we must support the creation of as many jobs as possible in Hungary. But at what cost? What are we gonna pay for this? But it doesn't matter. That's not what you've been interested in for a long time. Perhaps sometime when they fell out of the school bench, there was still something about doing something good in this country. Although I didn't believe you then, because we were listening to things that I didn't like. But you've been referring to the labor code for the last eight years? Read the opinion of the medical union, which describes what you have done with the labour code, how you best eviscerated workers, how you gave workers to employers. And they refer to the labor code? ! And here we are again in Parliament, talking again about something that shouldn't happen. And you know, let me tell you something that we printed out. Workers are most interested in how much of their salary will bring home, because they are not essentially spending the gross, although they are paying taxes, but how much they can bring home. In 2008, the minimum wage was 69 thousand forints. Of these 69 thousand forints, 56 190 forints were taken home, because the minimum wage had not yet been hit. Since then, it's different. In 2018 it will bring home 91 770 HUF out of 138 thousand forints. Much less in terms. There was an increase of 69 thousand forints, but it means only 35 thousand forints and 35 580 forints in net terms. Basically half. And if you look at what concerns the employee, his pocket, on which you have to spend every day, food and other expenses, which is the cost of maintenance, essentially the overhead, then allow some data. The pig leg after the VAT reduction, with the 2018 data not yet included, has increased by 11.9 percent. I mean, there's been a tax cut. The dry sausage has increased by 9.7 percent, and the 2018 figures are not yet included. The price of cuts in Paris, we're not talking about any quality product, it's up 52 percent. The carp, let's also talk about this, because they want more fish to be consumed by the Hungarians, it has become more expensive by 127 percent. Eggs are 30 percent more expensive today after VAT cuts. The cheese, the trapping cheese, is 7.7 percent, the milk margarine we use is 27.3%, flour is 2.2 percent, rice is 14.4 percent, bread is 13.9 percent more expensive before the current price increase. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think it would be good for you fellow Members to think about what an average worker in Hungary can buy from the minimum wage right now. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-207	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-27-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Louis Kosa! In the last two days, a few sentences have been said, which makes me think that certain pálinka laws should be made even stricter, because there are serious problems here. Yesterday, the Prime Minister also said that everything was all right; today I listened to one of his fellow Members say that retired miners are applying for work and that they have to change the law. Now, what we're talking about here is you said in the presentation that you're raising overtime to 400 hours, but that doesn't actually mean an increase in working time. I think you're slowly not living in another country, but on another planet. I think that you are simply in another reality, spending billions fighting enemies that do not exist, while Hungarian workers are being subjected to laws that simply make their lives difficult, but are slowly making it impossible. You will become more and more billionaires, but not just you, but also your friends, your parents, your grandparents, your great-grandparents and grandchildren, while the average Hungarian workers live slowly and slowly from day to day. I'm trying to tell you what Hungarian reality is, because I think you're working really hard right now, and I'm trying to tell you what the situation is that we're talking about, in case we can get closer to our positions. The Hungarian reality today is that average wages are HUF 215 thousand. This was also acknowledged yesterday by the Prime Minister, which is a huge achievement in bringing reality closer to reality, as so far they have been telling us for months that wages are HUF 325 thousand on average. Of course, we all know that these gross wages, we don't get them. So we all know that the average wage is HUF 215 thousand, which is EUR 670 by the way, I note that we are talking about, so the average wage is EUR 670. We know that Hungarians don't make that much money as part of a report. And the minimum wage may also be 400 euros next year, if the trade unions with whom you forgot to negotiate before the submission of this law, so if you negotiate with the trade unions more seriously, then the minimum wage will be 400 euros. Yeah, but the rent for an apartment is 400 euros. But let's not just talk about rents, but let's also talk about how a two-member Hungarian average family can buy a flat today. [[20.00]] You could buy an apartment if, say, for 10 to 15 years, the two searcheers who are in the family, say, no, even the two children don't eat, drink, don't go anywhere, don't gas, put all their earnings aside to buy an average two-bedroom, 50-square-meter apartment, and then they could buy one in 15 years. Obviously, we know that there is no such thing, so Hungarian families usually spend 30-40 years buying apartments on credit, and their active lives are about gone. If they were sick during this time, they could go to the clinics and hospitals, where, if they brought medicine and toilet paper, they would even be provided with the otherwise frustrated, overworked nurses and doctors who had been working for far more than 40 hours, of whom, by the way, a significant part of the nurses, we know exactly how much they make, a terrible amount of money, even though the work they do, very few of us would do. So if they survive these 40 years, which they've been working through to say, say, have a roof over their heads, and say they've solved their health problems and didn't end up on a three-year waiting list, then they can retire, but we know very well what pensions from minimum wage and average wages will be: none, or just for not dying of hunger. Today, more than a million people in Hungary have a pension of less than HUF 100,000, and this number will not decrease in the years to come, thanks to you. But the fact is that the Hungarian population does not have to save so much for their retirement years, because they are going to die. The Hungarian average age is 65-70 years, so you're right, it's a shame to save it for retirement. I suppose this is why private pension savings have been stolen, and this is probably why you have taken away the cafeteria from people in the last few weeks, so there is obviously not going to be much of a substantial increase in the amount of information at all next year, and that is probably why you have also abolished the housing register in the last few weeks, because what in God's name should the Hungarian average population set aside here and provide for it in advance, doesn't make any sense. So this is the reality that we are talking about, and that is why Hungarian workers are considered to be one of the most eviscerated in Europe, because the trade unions have been beaten up and/or paid off and defenceless. In Hungary, the number of suicides is enormously high, families are divorced, families do not stay, young people want to migrate, and alcoholism is extremely high. This is where you brought in the bill to increase overtime from 250 hours to 400 hours. We get it. So the economy is raging here, everything is fine, wages are rising, and then people have to work more, so that they don't even have to pay them anyway, and then in three years, employers will count them, those nice, regular multinational companies, run them by foreigners or Hungarians, and then fairly account for this with the employees, when they're working overtime and when they're not working overtime, and when they're not working overtime. You said, my dear Mr Kósa, that you were asked to bring this, because how good it will be for the trade unions, that they will have a basis for negotiation, because the 100 hours, the extra hours you want to bring in here, then the employee will be able to decide whether or not to do so. I mean, that's the limit, we all know that if you don't do this, you're gonna get fired. You can look at your laptop now, and you may not have Fidesz colleagues here, but obviously we are aware of the Hungarian relations, how Hungarian employers behave with Hungarian workers. You are simply exploiting this country for some reason. They think that because the opposition is making the mistake of not cooperating in the elections for the second time, you can do anything. I don't think that's true. But let's say what I just said here is not true, and you're right, and everything's fine here. But if everything's okay, then why don't you give me back the 13th month's pension that was taken away by the global economic crisis? The economy has been raging here for eight years, EU money has been pouring in for eight years, and it is said that now it is not only EU money, but also Russian and Chinese money. If we are doing so well, and our future is so good, why not return that 13th month pension, why do they want Hungarian workers to work 13 or 14 months in a year without paying it anyway? Yeah, I guess that's because we live so well, we don't even have to pay them. Obviously, they're just gonna go into the workplace for fun without paying for them. I get it, we get it. That's a fantastic idea for you. Obviously, the Hungarian working society will appreciate, not so many people, after all, the opinion of four and a half million people to you, I suppose, does not matter so much. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] To be honest, we should decide which reality is true, yours or ours. If it is yours, then I think that this law should not be submitted, that it should be cancelled, and, as I said, bring back the 13th month pension and start the wages... I will allow you not to have to overnight, I understand, but I think that we could aim for the average wages to reach the thousands of euros in three years' time, because this might be a way of approaching the bottom of what is found in the core countries of Europe. I think that's what we should do if you're right. If, on the other hand, we are right when we say to our fellow opposition Members that you are not right about things going well here, then I think that, apart from the fact that you are not allowed to submit this law, but you should also listen deeply to the idea, you should most quickly give up, write out new elections, so that a government can come and solve the problem that you have caused us in the last nine years. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-27-209	Good evening. We will continue our work, and we will be listening to the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Congressman Csárdi Antal. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would be very honored if you would look up from your laptop, because that would be my first sentence in this keynote speaker's speech that you lied, deceived the National Assembly, deceived your constituents, and deceived the people who live here. Why am I saying this? On the one hand, because it's a cynical sentence to justify this legislative amendment proposal that will improve the bargaining position of the workers, a blood kettle. But you are also lying, my fellow Member, Kósa, because you are acting as if this amendment was filed by accident as an individual motion for amendment, even though we know exactly what the Secretary of State has said, and the lead speaker of Fidesz confirms it, and everyone knew it was coming. And it had nothing else to do with it, because it was submitted as a motion for individual representatives, because it would be possible to avoid the obligation to negotiate which exists in a government referral and, in the case of individual representatives' motion, does not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, I took the trouble to sit down with the trade unions, to sit down with the advocacy alliances; with real trade unions, Mr Kósa, real trade union representatives who represent real workers in real sectors. I will not sit down tomorrow, I sat down as an opposition representative yesterday, and they were not fainted with happiness, my honourable fellow Member, but I will talk about this later. I thought I was going to fall off the bench here, when somehow he said that the opposition didn't want to talk about German wage slavery. Honourable Congressman, Then I'll tell you the numbers. In German wage slavery, the minimum wage is EUR 1498, which is HUF 485 352 at today's rate, and, honourable Member, imagine that half of this outrageously low minimum wage in Germany is tax-free, since income is exempt up to EUR 721 per month in Germany. But in Belgium, another slave society, the minimum wage is EUR 1563, HUF 506 412. [[20.10]] Or in the Netherlands, where the minimum wage is 1578 euros, there is 511 thousand forints if you count it. True, it is part of the truth that working time is not 40 hours a week, much less, there are four hours, there are only two, so Mr Kósa is right in this one that the working time is not the same. By the way, in one of the most working societies in Hungary, you are trying to explain to us that this can and must be increased. I would like to draw attention to one thing that my fellow Member, Barcza, in his speech to the lead speaker, was also represented by Mr Secretary of State or Mr Lajos Kósa in his comments: the interests of investors and the development of the economy. And don't think that this is not an important aspect here on the opposition side of the bench, just one thing to note is that they haven't bothered to do so for a second, yes, Mr. Secretary, they haven't bothered to think about the interests of the people who live here, of the workers. You serve the Western multinationals instead of serving their constituents. Of course, I understand that people living in Debrecen are so vulnerable that they are forced to take on a job which, by the way, means hundreds of hours of overtime, but Congressman Kósa thinks that this could be even tougher. Cynically, my fellow Member, why didn't you just submit that proposal to the House, with the same justification, to raise the daily working time to 16 hours? This will make significant savings for investors, and companies investing here will come out extremely well, as they do not have to work two shifts, but they can work both shifts. Moreover, we know very well that there has been a shortage of labour in this country, among other things, I will add in parentheses because of your economic policy [[Attila Barcza swings his head.]] So there's a shortage of workers. In case of 16-hour working hours... My fellow Member, Mr Barcza, stop wagging your head and press the button, and I would very much like to argue with you, not only in the end will you listen to cynical comments! So, of course, you can do that, because in 16 hours, you only have to hire half as many workers. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to talk about the three-year accounting framework and the timeframe. I would like to ask you, addressing Lajos Kósa personally, so that you can tell me how many speeches you said in November 2015, how many minutes you said your speeches, and you don't have to tell me what these two figures are about. I'm sure you won't be able to tell me exactly. Of course, it depends if Tetris came out and switched to Parliament.hu, who can look for it. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Dear Parliament, Since the Orbán government has been in power, it has constantly reduced the rights of workers, and while the income of the State Secretarys or the Fidesz elite is firing as a rocket, workers' rights and working conditions continue to deteriorate in this country. And it can be mentioned here that, for the last time, the cafeteria system has been disabled and eliminated, but we also remember precisely their many other decisions, when they took away the early retirement allowance, or when they weakened the functioning of interest representatives, they virtually disabled the strike. And yes, please, my fellow Members, in the Fidesz-KDNP Federation itself, with these decisions, they do not pursue a right-wing economic policy, they do not represent right-wing values, they are classic neoliberal economic decisions, and I think that everyone should see this clearly. The question must be asked, I think, in the middle of the main speaker, that honourable authors would like to ask Kristóf Szatmáry, only he is not here, I think he is repairing his online cash register. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I would like to ask Congressman Kósa why they represent Bavarian multinationals, not those voters who put their trust in your party alliance. Wasn't the support enough? Punishment for those who didn't vote for you? How dare you do this? I did a very quick calculation. It's 52 weeks a year until the two thirds decide otherwise. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] And it's pretty much possible to say that everyone has five weeks of freedom. It's 47, and if I divide this 400 mandatory overtime hours by 47 weeks, then it's 8.51 extra hours, 8,5 hours more each week. So he may want to make it possible not to work five times eight hours a week, but to work six times eight hours a week, and to allow the poor worker not to walk so well that he doesn't get the money for this at the end of the month, but in 36 months. Congressman, if you were to receive this month's fee in November 2021, you'd just keep your mouth shut, wouldn't you? [[Expansion, interruptions in opposition benches.]] This is the longest proof that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance has moved away from voters and does not represent them, and we also see precisely that, instead of representing people, they represent multinational companies. I might add, because I see a lot of people looking at me in a state of outrage? There's not that many, but there's two. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] It's not the investment that's wrong, it's the fact that you're delivering the workers' society to these companies. I'd just like to remind you of two of the last few years. Two months ago, Péter Szijjártó stated that the interests of German car manufacturers are more important than the fight against climate change. All this when the organ bloomed at the end of August. I really like the organ, I always cut it from the neighbor's garden for Mother's Day, and I don't think it's that it's blooming, it's just that it's in November. Or, technically, the Danube is dehydrated that the water yield that dominates the Danube today, at the moment, will not be enough, not just for Paks I or Paks II, but for nothing. We won't have any water if this continues. Make no mistake, this is not a government decision, but we should only notice the problems that could be answered to us, and the answer is probably not that it is okay, and then 400 hours of mandatory overtime is allowed. I think that my fellow Members have told me quite a bit about all of this bill, but since I did sit down with the representative organisations yesterday, I would like to convey the only well-communicable, well-enabled opinion that has emerged there. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Lajos Kósa, If you have hung up, I would like to tell you that the interest representatives have asked for this bill to be withdrawn, to begin a fair, comprehensive consultation with employees' representatives quietly, and that the employers' representatives have also declared that this should not have been missed, and that, after the conciliation, they will bring this proposal back on the basis of the agreement. [[20.20]] I think that I do not have to overexplain the problem described in this law, one of my fellow Members said it very plasticly. At the trial, there was a representative of a transport union who made it very clear. At the moment, the workers are already overloaded. A further increase in working time will bring no other results than a risk to work. And if a worker makes a mistake, such as a bus driver, it means an accident, and it could cost people their lives. But there's another and a much worse scenario. Workers' representatives said that this bill is clearly counterproductive, because it will achieve that as soon as workers feel the consequences of this, they can work overtime and receive money in 36 months' time, they will bring the result that they will leave the sector and move to another sector and, worse than that, abroad. I would like to note, ladies and gentlemen, that, compared to Budapest, Vienna is 243 kilometres away, much closer than Nyíregyháza. I think that this nation needs a working society, but what you're doing will evacuate this country, and then we can ask you, as a very, very important question, what to do then. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Please withdraw this bill. Thank you. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2018-11-27-211	Dear Parliament, We now have the lead speaker of the Dialogue, Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-27-212	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Congressman Lajos Kósa, if you would like to finish your phone call and, as rapporteur, pay a little attention to what the opposition thinks, what people think of your slave law, I would be happy to tell you. Because here he was practically crying for reasons not to call this proposal a slave law. There was no reason for what they were, they were not worthy of qualification, but I have bad news: we do not call it slave law, people call it slave law, trade unions call it slave law, and accordingly we try to grasp something of the essence of the matter, and therefore we call it slave law. But you know what? I'll do you a favor, though I see you're doing me a favor by leaving the meeting room. [[Lajos Kósa: I'm not leaving!]] She's not leaving. Oh, good. I'll do you a favor: let's not call it slave law for a few minutes, let's call it time travel. Because when people calculate what this means for them, that you can order 400 hours of mandatory overtime in the workplace practically, that means that your working time increases by 8.5 hours a week. The working time of a Hungarian worker will be 48,5 hours. Do you know when the mandatory hours were 48 hours? 1951. So it's a time travel back to the '50s. And I'm not talking about the essence of the political system here, we're going back to the Rákosi period, but, given the pressure on people, the workers, we're seeing it back in the '50s. Then, in the '60s, the mandatory working hours fell to 44, in the '80s to 42 hours, and then to 40 hours per week, and, well, you seem to be moving, after more than 30 years, not only towards a reduction in working time, but you're flying straight back 70 years and pushing back over 48 hours again. It was a bit confusing to suggest that it is now a unorthodox policy that you represent here, or that you are trying to follow the German pattern. I think they follow the unorthodox part of the German sample in that they are pursuing the interests of the industrial lobby, the interests that these giant companies in Germany cannot push through the opposition of trade unions, they cannot push through the resistance of the people, they cannot push through the opposition of politics, which represents its constituents there, and not the capital. In Hungary, it seems that the opposition to politics has already been broken, and it was probably not very expensive, Fidesz sold the Hungarian workers to the German industrial lobby for thirty silver coins. The question is that trade unions and people can break their resistance. I hope not, because we see that time travel backwards is quite unhealthy, especially for workers. We'd like to travel forward in time. Traveling forward in time and moving towards the future is clearly a reduction in working time, as is proposed by the Dialogue's proposal which has just been voted out. But it is certain that either unorthodox or orthodox, but if you want to follow the German example, you should not be making changes to the work lawbooks dictated by the German industrial lobby, but look at what German reality is. I'll tell you! The German reality is that an average German worker works 1363 hours a year, and an average Hungarian worker works 1761 hours, so in Hungary there is already 400 hours more a year than in Germany. Somewhere they really messed up math, so we shouldn't add 400 hours yet, we should subtract 400 hours. It would be necessary to reduce the workload of Hungarians to achieve the German example. This has consequences not only for workers' health but also for their lives. If we look at the number of accidents at work, for example, after the change in the 2012 Labour Code, where parts of the new work code were already translated from one to the other German, we can see that the annual number of accidents at work has increased from 17 thousand to 23 thousand. Six thousand more accidents occur each year in Hungarian workplaces, because they are becoming more vulnerable, increasingly eviscerated, increasingly tired, and increasingly sickened by Hungarian workers thanks to your policy of upholding rights. The other is also a rather important indicator, in which it would be good to try to catch up with Germany, which is the death rate. The standardized death rate in Germany is 1057 per 100,000 and in Hungary 1500 in Germany. So the mortality rate is nearly one and a half times that high. And this is obviously due to the health care that you have completely destroyed, but it is also due to the lifestyle that you force Hungarian people to die from cardiovascular disease, and the proportion of people who died of cancer is among the worst in the European Union. This is caused by stress at work, caused by work overload, and you want to go in this direction. It's only 70 years back in time again. I'll tell you, if we were going in the right direction in time, trying to put increasing years in front of us, what would be the direction, what would be the tasks that should be done, and what would be the goals that they should be pursuing. I understand that they want to increase competitiveness, and this has indeed not been done in the last eight years. I understand that they want to increase productivity, but this is not done by increasing the number of hours worked, but by increasing productivity per hour. This requires two things: on the one hand, the development of work organisation and the working environment, including the use of artificial intelligence to support the spread of robots, and, on the other hand, well-trained workers, healthy workers and rested workers from the workers' side. Compared to this, public education itself has been destroyed, and higher education is also destroyed. Hungary is the only one in the EU where the proportion of graduates is falling among young people, I do not think it is necessary to tell anyone who lives in this country about the disruption of the health care system, the deterioration of the end of the health care system, and I do not think that there is much more to say about how well Hungarian workers are resting and how much they will rest if they make the work of 6 days a week practically mandatory. It's exactly a reverse course. If there is a shortage of labour, it must be dealt with by raising wages if employers are not able to raise wages, then the tax burden on labour in the low and medium pay categories needs to be reduced, otherwise the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage should be increased. According to the Dialogue, it is necessary to introduce a basic income, which also leads to an increase in wage incomes and the income of workers. It's what you need, not what you're doing, that we're actually going back 70 years in time. So I suggest you forget the work culture of the 1950s and try to look around Europe in the 2010s, where it is, look at Germany, but look at the actual Germany, and not the Germany that German industrial lobbyists paint in front of you. Of course, I understand that if a BMW engine falls off the assembly line by accident at the feet of the petitioner of the law, then there is a great temptation to get on it and then ride in here and say this inconvenient text about 400 hours of extra work not being an increase in working time. [[20.30]] But if they face reality and face up to their responsibilities towards voters, then this bill will be revoked, and perhaps we will miss out on this time travel, and then we will not call your referral a slave law. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-27-213	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak, so I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Lajos Kósa, We've been sitting here for hours, arguing, but I don't think you can sense any of this, because you're constantly buried in your laptop, elbows, typing, calling, you're just not here with us. I can't really believe you're submitting a bill, one of the petitioners isn't coming, I don't see Kristóf Szatmáry here, and you're just not listening to us. And I would like to stress that it is not disrespectful to us, but disrespectful to the citizens of this country. He gave his name to this freak, gave his name to this abomination, as the unions say. You come into the house of the country, which operates from the tax forints of Hungarian citizens, you name it, and then, when we negotiate, you don't look up to us? Well, I'm looking at you right now... Thank you. Thank you, fantastic, let's give Mr. Kosa a round of applause for finally [[Intercom from the opposition: Long live! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] He finally looked up to us! Dear Mr. Kósa, It's not gonna be okay. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Lajos Kósa: I can hear with my ears, not with my eyes! I've heard what they've told me all along...! Intercoms from the opposition.]] Mr. Kosa, you're not arguing with me...
u2018-11-27-215	Thank you very, very much for wanting to speak in groups, as well as the voice of the representative of the ruling party...
u2018-11-27-216	Mr. Kosa, I'd like to... yeah, I'm sorry.
u2018-11-27-217	Here you go. Here you go. You're alone!
u2018-11-27-218	Mr. Kósa, I would very much like you to listen to what we have to say. [[Lajos Kósa: I hear you!]] Because the bill you gave your name to is problematic. I begin by saying that in a normally functioning country, such a proposal is not submitted by representatives, but, let us say, at least by the minister who adds his name, who undertakes to examine, in the context of social consultation, how the people concerned will react to his proposal before it comes before the country's house. Where's Mihály Varga? Where is he? ! [[To Sándor Bodó:]] He sent his one-piece Secretary of State to battle. [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] And there's another one I don't know exactly who [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And here's two more fideses. [[Defiance and intervention from the opposition: Introduce yourself!]] Four, four people...! [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Here's an Orbán!]] I would like to note that there are four people here in the Hungarian Parliament on the part of the government, while they are trying to enslave Hungarian workers. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] I have a serious problem with that. If you're not working overtime, because it's 8:30 in the Hungarian Parliament right now, if you're not willing to work overtime, then why do you want to overtime the Hungarian workers? So set an example. Come in here with the whole Fidesz-KDNP, come in here with the government, come in with the minister and argue this whole story. But they're not coming in! You're gonna lose your pen, I don't know, 4:00 p.m., and the night shift while you're enslaved to this country. [[The conversation between Lajos Kósa and Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] Listen to me, Secretary of State, at least don't talk while I'm talking to you, they're not coming to work. Well, that's perverted, that's all you guys are doing! At least they'd respect the public of this country by telling us what their arguments are for this monstrous bastard! But no, here are the bored two secretary of state, and here is Lajos Kósa himself, who called, walked and looked through his laptop. So what I would like to say is that with this work ethic, the pro-government team wants you to be among these slave conditions, respected Hungarian voters. They're the ones who have the power to rip me off, God knows who, and they're gonna take you and submit this bill. By the way, this reminds me of something: we were here when the labour code was passed through the House, when the trade unions, the strike law were killed, pretty much everything that the employee interest enforcement had won in this country, and they did it the same way: it was night, it was dark, you took yourself, you said that there would be no problem, and there was no reconciliation in front of it. So, how's that? First, Lajos Kósa realizes that he can do this, taking Kristóf Szatmáry with him, who was on the committee when there was an Employment and Labour Committee in this House, because now there is no such thing, now there is only Enterprise Development... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Na! That's an excellent committee. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So, that you're going to hand it in to individual representatives, and then, as the scandal breaks out, and the trade unions and the people rebel, they're going to say it's good, then after the trial, you're going to sit down with the unions. Now you're not even listening to us. What are you going to say to the unions tomorrow, Mr. Kósa? I'd be honored if you could tell us what kind of bargaining ground you're gonna have tomorrow. We'd like to know, yes, it's a bit of an event now, but we'd like to know what's in your head, Mr. Kósa. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Uh-oh! Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks.]] Okay, so here's the thing: I think I will still make Mr Kósa listen to me, and I don't think you've read this bill. If you had read the bill you took in your name, you would not have said that you wanted to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles from the way, and just to clarify: these unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles would be the regulation of working time, according to Lajos Kósa. But he said something else, he said that he thought this proposal was just an opportunity for extra work, and if the workers don't want to take advantage of it, no one can oblige them unless their collective agreement sets this out. Now, Mr Kósa, there are two problems: one problem is that it is not true. According to this bill, which we are discussing here, the employer could unilaterally, without the employee's consent, order 400 hours of overtime a year and not require a collective agreement. So, Mr Kósa, if you want to see in your bill what you have just said in the media, then put in an amendment to your own proposal, because that's not what's in it... [[Interpreting from the lines of the MSZP: It may be written that way!]] You might say, yes, I agree with the MSZP [[Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks.]] "Maybe it says Mr. Kósa, "maybe it's in your head, yes. The other problem is that in the world where I live and where there are still a few of us, we know that the employee and the employer do not have the same ability to reconcile interests, their ability to represent interests. The thing is, the track usually goes down towards the employer. And a responsible government doesn't go along with it, and it pushes the whole regulation even more to the employer to tell the government what he wants to see, but to side with the employee, to side with the people. We've had enough of your work-based society, Mr. Kósa and Mr. Fidesz, all of you here I don't see KDNP, and now we want to see a people-based society! Because you have forgotten one thing about great government: that there are people in this country, and these people are sleeping, eating, drinking, and having families, these are things that we people are receiving. When you broke the labour code and introduced regulations that people wouldn't even dare to go to the toilet at work, you forgot basic human things. And even now, when you have the nerve to settle the country with public money, to spend the year of a family, and that children have the right to parents, you forget the point, that these parents should be at home to deal with children. I was recently in the United States, but here in Hungary, too, you could see that the huge problem is that parents have little time for children, on average 7 minutes, that's what a parent can spend with a child, and not because he is selfish, not because he has better things to do, but because he travels to work, and then he has to get home. Seven minutes, Mr. Kósa. This should be increased and not reduced! I will give you a proposal for the year of families: let Fidesz-KDNP aim at allowing Hungarian parents to spend more time with Hungarian children! Let this be what you are writing in that bloody laptop and bringing it to the government meeting and telling Viktor Orbán that the goal is for Hungarian parents to be able to spend more than 7 minutes with Hungarian children! We'll have a little less problems in the coming decades if that happens. Because families didn't fall apart because people forgot to love each other, but because we don't have time for each other anymore. And what the hell about the Hungarian families, Mr. Kósa, there in the laptop [[Defiance.]] If they're gonna work six days? It's been in this country before. It's called a communist Saturday. We remember it. You guys recently wanted everyone home on Sundays, not going to shops, and everyone to love each other around Sunday lunch. Well, now we're gonna lose our Saturday. Is that what you promised before the election? Because I don't think that's what they promised. I remember something completely different. And the other is that there's a ragged, lousy, lousy Fundamental Law of this country that we don't appreciate in general, who believe in granite-solid things, unlike you, and there's a paragraph in this Fundamental Law, paragraph XVII. I will quote here in substance that all workers have the right to work conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity, every employee has the right to daily and weekly rest periods and annual paid leave. Now, you're gonna get this out of here. I propose to the opposition that we turn to the Constitutional Court in the event that this goes through and ask for everyone's support. It's a political interest, it's in the interests of this country, you can't ignore what they've done here above our heads, not so long ago. Even Fidesz could fit into the Fundamental Law. Well, now they're throwing that away. [[20.40]] And if I have given you a proposal to help Hungarian parents to have more time with their children, I would like to make another suggestion. You should reduce the burden on the job, Mr Kósa, by increasing the net of the people, because my fellow Member Bangóné rightly said that people are watching the salary, watching the part of what they can bring home. Then they can buy milk, bread, pork or anything else, Mr. Kósa, that's the thing. And if you guys were to cut your employee contributions and not your employers for once in your life, you might even benefit from a net wage. But that's not what you did. And here's this completely unscrupulous minister whose diet we've read about recently in the papers. But I don't care if he eats chocolate and I don't know what he eats, what I care about is that he says things like that, that we need to keep the investment of German automotive companies going. How? Through the bodies of the Hungarian people? [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I'm not kidding, Mr. Kósa, people are dying of strokes! What health indicators do we have? The cancer, the stroke, all the health problems. I'm telling you, we've got the lowest life expectancy on this continent, and you're putting a shovel on it? The few people left in this country work a lot. That was the problem years ago, and now that is the problem even more. People are working themselves to death, so let's just say it, and let's not be polite, that's what we're talking about. I was in the Nyufig, for example, Mr. Kósa, I was there. At 3:45 in the morning, women come to work, mostly talking about women, 5:00, 5:30, by the time they leave, a lot of them. There's a job shortage. In the public sector, you wanted to tackle the shortage of labour and the wage problem by firing 7,000 people, by really working to death people who are there, because pensions have to arrive on time. And now they're in the competitive sector, and they're into everything, even though that's not how the whole story goes in a healthy economy. Let the state be a good farmer, settle wages in the public sector. The state has every opportunity to do so, and from there they are ringing to the competition sphere, paying attention to the workers, paying attention to the people, paying attention to the workers, because we can build a strong Hungary if the people there have all the needs. There's a good wage in it, and there's the possibility of recreation, there's the possibility that he can spend time with his family, with his loved ones, and there's a lot of other things that we don't talk about right now, but let's say he goes to a theater, or he can run around the island, or anywhere else, in the country, to keep people's condition. We should talk about such things, how we help Hungarian people to do this. Instead, I am crazy about the fact that we are here in November 2018 and we are talking about the fact that Fidesz-KDNP is going to make Hungarian people work to death, because that is the stake. I don't think it's enough that it's a slave law. This is a much more serious situation. I don't remember an election promise from Fidesz-KDNP to raise, for example, the tax on the cafeteria, but I don't remember the abolition of state support from the housing savings banks. But I don't remember you telling me to kick people out of the public sector, and I definitely don't remember that you're trying to smuggle back the bill that Erik Bánki gave back to you because of a fidesz public uprising. What I can tell you is that the time for lying politicians will eventually end. You lied, and you know it, you're buried in the laptop, you don't look me in the eye, the Secretary of State is looking down at you, and you don't come in here to argue because you know exactly that you're screwing over Hungarian workers, and the Hungarian workers will know that. I don't know what the point is as far as you can go. I do not see exactly what the moment will be when Hungarian workers will say that this is not what we are paying for, this is not the movie we want to watch. We want a government in this country who sees people, who not only tells us women to have babies, but then gives us the opportunity to raise that child. I can't do this for seven minutes a day. If we spend Saturday at work, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, we can't. Not only do you have to have that child, Mr. Kosha, you have to raise it. And we women know that we make a long-term decision when we're having a baby, and that's what the men who are by our side know. At least 18 years, but more. What should the Hungarian families hope that if you are here, during the night, you will submit a bill that may pay overtime after three years, if you are working for that company, and if we have to spend Saturdays at work? So, you will not be able to understand this, Mr Kósa, and I would like you to specifically name the countries where you believe such a system works, with such wages, such constructions, because I think you have lied to us and to everyone else who has hoped for something in this country, even from this government we are looking at. I'm even talking about the Fidesz voters, because I don't think this bill you and your fellow Member have put forward, or the Fidesz voters are very fond of it, because the family is really important to us, and it's not important to you. Thank you.
u2018-11-27-219	Thank you very much. We now have a two-minute speech, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-220	Mr. President. Dear House, If we want to expose the lies of Lajos Kósa, we don't have to go far. This week, the Committee on Enterprise Development held a meeting, you know, Mr Kósa, which used to be the so-called Labour Committee. I can now be the chairman of this committee, and here I have been invited by those trade unions, people who are truly competent in the profession who would like to give you their views on this abomination, and not after you have presented it, because what did you imagine? That before the extra 400 hours, they're gonna make a minus sign instead of a plus with an amendment proposal? [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] How do you feel about negotiation? In the world of Fidesz, what does this look like? So it is quite amazing, and his colleagues have said that what lies before us is essentially in the interests of foreign multinational interests, car manufacturers, and others, and it is not the first time that the government has been servile to serve and caress these multinationals. The fact is that at this meeting of the Committee on Enterprise Development, Mr Gábor Nemes was also present, representing all Hungarian workers who were interested in this area as trade union leaders in the field of transport, and there was also the leader of the Vasas trade unions, Mr Béla Balogh. Both of you, Mr. Kósa, are waiting for their opinions to be at least heard. It is not necessarily necessary to include it in this inconvenient proposal, since there is a quality proposal that is not necessarily worth absolving and absolving. They say we don't go below a certain level. I am very keen on this proposal, and I very much ask you to turn your back on the road now, when you may still be at peace, and we do not want this proposal to be swept away by social outrage, because there have been some examples. So stop testing the Hungarian society, because it is not the first time they have done that the social tolerance is probed, tested, and then if they see that the counterpower is large enough, they will back down, see the shop on Sunday, see the net tax. Don't make this a third story, so turn back off this road right now. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-221	Thank you. We now have a pre-notified speaker, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 7th skin is also skinned off by the neoliberal song entitled Hungarian Employees, whistling by the Fidesz Pounding. That's what this is about, not anything else. If we're going to sum up this whole mess that they had the guts to put in front of the National Assembly, that's what we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, Otherwise, they spit on all the things you should consider in the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP. For example, if they call themselves Christian Democrats, then XIII. From Pope Leo, Rerum novary 1891. What did the Pope say he wrote there? It is ugly and inhumane to use people as mere means of profit. Will this bill, say, abide by this rule? Far from it! Then you also spit on your own boss, Viktor Orbán, who said that after honest work, all employees in Hungary should be touched by the three rooms and the four wheels. The fact is that this Orbánian, let's say, is a fantasy for many young Hungarians in Austria, Germany, England and who knows where to look. They are not leaving here because of an adventure, but because the circumstances that are here, and which you have already brought together for them in the ninth year, have been obvious for the past eight years, they are being driven away quite simply from this country. Then the Fundamental Law is also desecrated by this proposal, since it is subject to Article XVII of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 2a clearly states that all workers have the right to working conditions which respect their health, safety and dignity. Please, dear Lajos Kósa, this is not going to work. [[20.50]] Anyway, it looks like the whole thing when we're talking about it, it'd be great if it got involved in the debate, but after your introduction, it looks like everyone here is stupid, the whole opposition, the way it is, in a complete way, from Jobbik to LMP to MSZP, only you're a helicopter. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Because we do not understand what you have outlined here, what a huge boom this will bring to the Hungarian economy and Hungarian workers. But we have heard and read from you when you said that it is impossible for many people to flee Hungary because of the terrible conditions of Hungarian living and working and wages, because of the lack of prospects. This means that your knowledge of reality, my honourable fellow Member, is equal to zero. The Hungarian rigidity, which they do not like to take into account, seems to be, for example, from the constituency where I live, where, contrary to what the pro-government representative said even in the campaign, what a terrible shortage of workers is, a significant number of people can travel almost 120 kilometers a day, say, from Bolho to Zalaegerszeg, to do work in a multinational company. So two hours there and two hours back, because this is Hungarian reality. Then the Hungarian reality is that, say, they employ the unfortunate worker for 12 hours for 10 days, and then they can rest for 4 days. That's 120 hours of work in two weeks. 120 hours of work in two weeks! Although you obviously don't understand that. Here in the Hunting Room, they could still eat it today, say, then the Dijon mustard-marinated beef roast with onions, buttered marinated vegetables, and then he could fill his belly with, say, apricot jam with carnival doughnuts, and despite the good working conditions around here, there are one, two Fidesz-KDNP MPs. So indeed, as has been said here many times, you love overtime so much, the overtime that you would throw into the neck of the Hungarian people without a word. Shame and shame! So, who wrote you this proposal? It is quite clear that your oligarchs and these multinational companies have captured the Hungarian state and, indeed, as inspectors of the labour camp, you are preparing a very strict policy here for Hungarian workers. May I remind you that in 2001 this annual overtime was only 144 hours. I'd take you up to 400 hours. This bill was drawn up according to a completely psychopathic, wild capitalist recipe, and I think it is obvious that it has come down to this point that we cannot accept it, we are not willing to accept it. Péter Veres wrote in his work "What is the value of a man's work, if he wrote that we are working like idiots, others are making it worth his while. That is right, it seems very much that this is also the aim of ensuring that Hungarian workers can be eviscerated as much as possible. Again, a proposal that can be said to jerk off that particular rat meter, because it is the most shameful thing to imagine, I'm sorry. And then even the finest thing I have said is to read, say, the comments, because Hungarian workers have a much more decisive and characteristic opinion about this. You consider these workers to be soulless workers, from whom the seventh skin can indeed be skinned. When it comes to work, it seems that you are based on the etymology of the word, isn't it, Slavic root, which means nothing but pain, pain, agony? I'm just not sure it's the 21st. This should be the case at the beginning of the 20th century, in the middle of Europe. Colleagues, it has already been said here, my fellow Member Székely said that the pálinka law may also need to be tightened up, because the day after tomorrow, one of our fellow members of the government may come up with a new proposal and, say, consider the 13th law of 1876, the so-called servant law, which was a typical example of capitalist exploitation: the servant became a member of the farmer's household, it could also be reprimanded and physically disciplined. Lajos Kósa may wonder how much this could increase Hungarian competitiveness, how to put these lazy Hungarians to work. According to this law, the working hours were, by the way, from sunrise to sundown, after a quick head count of, say, 3:45 a.m. to 3:45 a.m. at the end of June, this could have been 16 hours. Or maybe you're saying that you'd rather go back to the 45th of 1907 Derek Act, under which the 12-year-old child could be contracted. After all, they say that there is a shortage of workers, nosza, to reduce even more the age of compulsory education in Hungary and to send the children of 12 years to work. To a place of service, if this worker is dissatisfied, the law states that he could be brought forward with armpower. I do not want to give you any tips, but I am warning my fellow Members here that anything can come out of your head at that time, like some divine spark, can burst out of these more insane thoughts. Then, in 1907, it was also prescribed that this servant could not move during the year. Now, tie the Hungarian workers to nuggets and be forbidden to leave one of the multinational companies and look elsewhere for prosperity. 'Cause what kind of thing would that be, it would upset their schedule! But there's a small country in the world, a small, sloppy dictator of North Korea, and Kim Jongun is sending his own citizens to work in a foreign country, actually as a wage slave. According to some calculations, there are about 60,000 such workers all over the world, from Siberia through the mines of China and Borneo. They feed them slops, they take 90 percent of their wages. Think about it, it's a beautiful new world. Well, that's what we don't want. In 2014 at the second Hungarian-Arabic Economic Forum in Riyadh, Viktor Orbán said that the Hungarian workforce is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and this country has a flexible labour law; and he said that this is an investor-friendly government, which awaits foreign investors in Hungary. Let us look at what the situation is like here in Hungary, and what these so-called flexible laws have turned everyday life into, which you do not like to be aware of. Let's see how much an average Hungarian worker works. It has also been said, OECD survey, I would say data for 2017: in Hungary it is more than 1700 hours, 1740 hours rounded up, in Germany it is around 1350 hours, but also in Denmark it is 1400 hours, and in the Netherlands it is barely more than 1400 hours a year. And even Japanese called workaholics work less based on OECD data than Hungarians. But let's keep our mouths shut. It could be a lot worse than that. What if you had Thailand as an example, where you could work 84 hours a week? Let's see how the accidents at work have turned out. In 2013, there were 17,000 reported accidents at work. This increased to 23,387 by 2017, with more than a third increase! If there was an increase somewhere, this is the area. 79 people died as a result of an accident at work. 79 people are mourned by their children, parents, relatives, wives, husbands. If you work 400 more hours extra for Hungarian workers, you can imagine how exhausted they will be. I would also like to add what Hungarian labour protection is like, Hungarian labour supervision: altogether, companies have been punished for HUF 117 million in Hungary, so that in many cases workers are actually kept in a line of labour animals. Let's look at the sick money, because they like to make it look like it's not really a competitive nation, they like to hang. Then let me tell you that in 2016, the number of sick days was 25 million days. That's less than six days per employee. Less than six days! [[21.00]] In fact, 7 percent of children under 7 years of age, each fourteen who were sick, were forced to be at home alone because parents had to work. Between the ages of 8 and 12, this ratio was 10 percent, because the parent had to go to work. It's a shame. These are non-European figures. In addition, Hungarian productivity, the productivity of an average worker, stands at 70 percent of a Western European worker. So, if we look at this and how much more we work, we are not as bad as you would describe, and I would like to say that we do not go, let us say, to Western Europe, Slovakia, the net minimum wage is 128 thousand forints, the equivalent of EUR 92 thousand in Hungary. One third more minimum wage can be taken home by Slovak workers. Then the state of health: three out of every five Hungarian men are not worth the retirement age, and even if they are worth the pension, they also have to look at the state of their health. It's not a coincidence! They're working him to death, working him like an asshole. While in Germany these OECD numbers are based, say, on a 45-year working cycle, an average worker works 63,000 hours, if you increase the Hungarian numbers by another 400 hours, that means that an average Hungarian worker will work 99,000 hours in the same amount of time. Really, how many more skins do they want to pull off people? ? It's a shame. It is unacceptable that Hungarian workers, Hungarian families, are sacrificed on the altar of capital interests! I think that if you continue on this path, you will go further on the path that it is the low wage and the so-called flexible labour code that gives us competitiveness, that we will be stuck at the bottom of the value chains, that we will not be able to get from one to the other, and that will seriously jeopardise the formation of human capital in Hungary, and it can also be said that the social regeneration process will result in the collapse of my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, on the one hand. What do people do on the other hand? They vote with their feet. The exodus that we are experiencing will increase even more, and even though you are waiting for the emigrated young people to come home in words, not only the young will go away, but the middle generation will not return. Under these circumstances, they don't come back and dare to start a family. So, in the midst of such a demographic decline, as my fellow Member Daniel Z. Carpathian used to say, in the midst of a demographic winter with such measures, it is more than an outrage, an anti-national assassination. And if you call yourself a national government, you're gonna have to forget about this, and we're not gonna ask you to, but we're gonna demand that you throw all this crap in the trash. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-27-223	Thank you very much. We will continue to work by hearing the opinion of the speakers who have asked for a normal word. János Volner may be the first independent Member to speak. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is the most important proposal of the week, it is Tuesday, just after 9:00 p.m., 9:00 p.m., and we are now discussing the most important proposals of the week, and I would like to state, for the record, that two Fidesz Members of Parliament have respected the most important proposals of the week with their presence. Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry presented an extremist, anti-human and family bill, a bill which unilaterally disadvantages honest Hungarian people, which unilaterally favors multinationals who are now practically exploiting them, and I say that I am not anti-capital, I am not anti-multi-national, but the reproach that the government is carrying on with such legislation must end once and for all. And now let me speak to my fellow opposition Members in a slightly more formal way. My fellow Members, this is the most important proposal of the week, and I do not think there is any debate in this. What did you do, say, on Monday, yesterday? Before all the agendas, interpellation, immediate question about the fresh rubber bone of politics, the Gruevski case. I'm not a teacher, unlike István Hiller, I don't want to teach you how to make politics, but it's simply ridiculous that the opposition is chewing on a political rubber bone when the government brings in this bill that affects hundreds of thousands of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to follow a political strategy, you should deal with this, and take care of this with a speech or two, but don't talk about it all day. This is what Hungarian people are really interested in. If you want to build a political strategy and create it, and you want to implement it, then you should focus on what you have reception skills for in society, which is really important, and not on a political rubber bone. It is very important to see that it is our job, opposition representatives, to point out the inhumanity of this bill. It is our duty, opposition representatives, to point out that the vision that Fidesz has very successfully drawn in society about the ideal of civil society is being undermined by this bill, which is contrary to that. It would be up to the opposition to point out that this extremely anti-human and family proposal does not fit into the vision that Fidesz has succeeded in believing with half the Hungarian electorate. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be the issue of opposition policy in this House. It is very important to see that when the Government talks about the idea that this proposal was conceived in terms of efficiency and competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen, under the heading of Article XIX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This kind of thinking takes us back to the beginning of the century. CHAPTER XXI We are writing a century when we should all be doing a knowledge-based society in Hungary, in sectors for the re-production of labour, in education and in health, when we should spend all our budgetary energy and money on improving human capacity and skills, not on investment in infrastructure. Compared to this, here is a proposal that will bring us back to the level of medieval China, ladies and gentlemen: the more we work, the less money, the more we are at risk. This is what we need to tell us about how it does not fit into the vision that Fidesz is trying to make Hungarian society believe. Think about it, with this bill, 450 extra hours per year will come 30 years after Communist Saturday on capitalist Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, because this bill will result in this. And we must, by all means, protest against this proposal. By the way, I note here, in reply to Bernadett Szél, that I fully agree with you, I also held today a press conference to ask the President of the Republic first, if this proposal is adopted here within the Parliament, so that he does not sign this proposal, if he will sign it, then we will turn to the Constitutional Court, and we will ask for the support of all opposition representatives in order to prevent the entry into force of this legislation by means of a prior standard control, and if this will not result, then we will turn to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and there we will also seek legal opportunity to prevent this amazing bill. We're talking about 450 extra hours, ladies and gentlemen, instead of 250 extra hours. The cost of overwork must be accounted for within three years. What is really happening here is that the unfortunate, miserable Hungarian worker working for a fraction of the Western wages will lend his foreign employers, for three years the Hungarian employee will pay the cost of this, then the multi pay them or not, because I note that the kind of wage guarantee that I am talking about Austria, which is more western with a country, is not typical in Hungary. In the event that a particular undertaking fails, disappears or disappears, the worker can use a stick to trace his money, at least according to this provision. It is important to see that this bill does not comply with both durability and sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about 500-600 thousand people leaving Hungary, selling their workforce abroad, creating value abroad, paying taxes abroad, we cannot bring them into this House and accept a madness that will help us drive these people away even more, remove them even more from Hungary, and get more and more people to leave Hungary to emigrate from here. [[21.10]] It is also important to see that Lajos Kósa has referred to the fact that there are already examples of a similarly large number of mandatory working hours and overtime in Europe. Fidesz has always done this, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years. He hunted the extreme examples from all over Europe, put such a Frankenstein creature together in a bill, and at the end he did what there is no precedent anywhere in Europe, his details can be discovered here and there, but they can't see the whole thing together. What Lajos Kósa is talking about is the temporary agency activity. It is also worth seeing what this bill is about. After a long, long time, practically one of the sectors of tax removal is temporary agency, which will now be subpoenaed in such a way that the payment must cover the wage. I ask you: whether it is the operating cost of a social cooperative or a market-based company, where the profits of a market-based company will be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, if these costs are not calculated, only the wages of the workers, they will continue to cheat this money. Think about the fact that there are about 130,000 property guards working in Hungary! There, the same model, the multinationals, who are now protected and served by this outrageous bill, are contracted with the property guards for several times between HUF 600 and 700 per hour, while in the state sphere Sándor Pintér's former company and other government-owned companies can be legally contracted with guaranteed hourly fees of HUF 1800-2000. Ladies and gentlemen, out of 600-700 forints, the minimum wage that would be required to pay is not to be paid. It would take a lot more money, about twice as much to cover the employee's wages at all, and then even the company's operating costs are not included and its profits are not included, sir, sorry, because we live in a capitalist society, the company is obviously working for profit, which is not included. What will be the result? They will draw away public burdens in the same way as the result of this bill will be that the employers concerned, these temporary agency companies, will continue to cheat these amounts in a significant part, because simply the company that would be required by the employer to report the employees to full pay, which would ensure the conditions for legal taxation at all. I ask Lajos Kósa that we do not poke around this proposal, we do not push it, we do not mop it up, so that it does not end up with ten bad things that are contained in this bill, half of which the government withdraws, and at the end of it Hungarian society is happy that only half of these horrors have been realized! This entire bill, ladies and gentlemen, should be withdrawn as it is. If the government wants to start something with the Hungarian labour market, the Hungarian economy, then do not play a sneaky game, avoid the obligation of legal consultation, and do not contact the National Assembly with a motion from individual representatives. Submit this bill by the government itself, make it a decent social reconciliation employer's side, employee's side, Parliament, and on this basis something will come up. But to bypass people's opinions, not to take into account that we are not living in the Middle Ages, we are not living in the robot era of the Malanki, but in the knowledge-based XXI. We should build a century, this issue cannot be bypassed. There's no way around that question. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-225	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Mr Jobbik, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-226	Mr President, Dear House, What can be taken out of this emotional approach is that of my fellow Member, my friend, Mr Ander, I feel that he has already brought it out. However, it does not hurt to approach this whole issue from the economic side, and I would like to inform Lajos Kósa and his fellow State Secretary that this type of approach to the labour shortage in Hungary is not only unprofessional, but also a barbaric, but also a very clear certificate of your inadequacy. You are perfectly unfit to see the situation of a national economy and then settle it. And the basis for incompetence is not only an incredibly flawed approach to demographic issues, but also what they are doing here. You have made a very clear statement yourself: you want to favour German car manufacturers and you are trying to put in place foreign industries that have already been tried with strategic contracts. But to complete the flowchart, to understand what this is all about: the shortage of labour has arisen in Hungary, as in the demography of demographic issues, there was, in fact, competition between the ranks of governments called Balliberals and the Fidesz governments. We can also see that while the amazing effects of the shortage of labour in health are already visible, these are simply denied by the pro-government representatives or are leaving the room as one of them is now. However, it is not possible to deny that, where appropriate, an early-born clinic or an early-born reception centre will be closed due to a shortage of labour and a shortage of professionals. This is just this week's news we're talking about. We must say that this problem is posed as if it does not exist. However, very few people in this Parliament know it, but I want more people to know that the following was said at an IT conference. In addition to lawyers, IT experts and representatives of two or three other fields of expertise are the biggest shortage of labour in Hungary. What was the idea of making up for this shortage? To bring university students from South America to the Hungarian universities in bulk, train them to be IT experts and beg them to keep at least a few of them on the Hungarian market after they have been partially trained with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. This was said here in this building at the conference we've been quoting for years, because it contains every aspect of the government's amazing dilettant attitude. We can also see that legislation has already been put in place to facilitate the import of labour by multi-company companies. The direct consequence of this is that 20 thousand Ukrainian workers have now been published in statistical data. [[Lajos Korózs: More!]] It's a lot more than that in real life. [[Lajos Korózs: More than that, yes.]] I should also mention that anyone who deals only with agriculture is very well aware that from the Far East, but especially the so-called skilled workers in India, began to appear in the Hungarian countryside. Even if they are not registered, even if they do not appear in the statistics in Lajos Kósa's pocket, it can be said that the exchange of population is actually promoted by Fidesz-KDNP as an organizer. It helps in one direction by making the emigration look amazing. This way, Mr. Secretary, what do you say to us? We feel lucky in terms of emigration, as more of the other countries in the region are leaving, only so many people in citations from Hungary, so let everyone be satisfied. This attitude is outrageous. They argue that it is only in collective contractual cases that the evisceration of workers continues beyond what has already been the case, even though the level so far has not been anything. But let's just say that, in terms of a collective agreement, the right of individual workers to assert their interests is, to say the least, slim. Just think of the fact that Hungarian trade unionism is lagging behind under duress. In decades of communism, this concept may have meant something a little different than it has been since 1990. I also have to tell you, what we have already said at the committee meeting, that anyone can get to know him at the first lecture on digital transformation in Germany, let's say, at Pázmány Péter Catholic University, the trade union community also includes that the tools used to profile and map the various labour law practices of the employee are typically prohibited for the employer. Even on this front, workers' rights are protected. Thus, scandals such as the atrocities of the various multinational companies in Hungary against women cannot arise in an area where, unfortunately, because of the negative pressure on us to become trade unions, they are a bit ahead. I must tell you that, if we look at the number of new collective agreements... my fellow Member Kósa, tell me how many new sectors have concluded collective agreements at sectoral level, now that there are Fidesz governments! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Zero!]] How many sectors have these collective agreements been able not only to settle the rights of the mass of workers but at least a little lessen their fate? They won't be able to say that! At the meeting of the Committee on Enterprise Development, it was found that those referred to in terms of communication and consultation did not even speak to them, but expressed an opinion contrary to yours, even though, let's say, they represent transport workers or even trade union leaders who know this profession against you. I do not want to tell you, as a Member of Parliament, how trade unionism should prevail in Hungary. 'Cause what we do is that if we don't know a specialty, we turn to people who are smarter than us. You seem to prefer to be the smartest in the working group you work in, and this predicts a very dark future for Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[21.20]]
u2018-11-27-227	The next speaker, thanking the Member for his speech, is Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to comment, but I'm forced to do T/3628. To comment on bill No.3 because I simply think that something in Fidesz-KDNP was broken after the third two-thirds. After the proposals presented, it seems that they must urgently start involving all the psychologists and psychiatrists in Hungary, and somehow start curing this breakdown. There's really good drugs for it. The proposals you're bringing into this House are simply amazing. Of course, if I think about the 2 million 700-800 thousand people who came together and who they could buy for a liter of schnapps and a kilo of potatoes, then it's true that people in the world of work really aren't the majority of their constituents. What does Ergo do? It sells a bill to the multinationals and their own oligarchs. It's as simple as that. There's nothing more to it, but nothing more. But if any of the non-Orbán governments before 2010 had submitted such a proposal to the House, Budapest would have burned the next day. The 2006 madness is nothing compared to what they would have done. And it's amazing how patient the Hungarian man is, how patient the Hungarian opposition politician is, because we haven't set Budapest on fire yet. Yet, after the introduction of such a bill in a democratic country, at least people go out on the streets and say no. Right, fellow Members? ! I would argue with my fellow Member, Mr Volner, what the opposition does not do, that it is simply necessary to acknowledge that legislation is being tabled at a level that a normal person cannot imagine in his senses that such a thing will happen. There were times when we read the bill and looked for it to see if it wasn't as horrible as it looked forward to. No? So there are many times when we look for a reason that it's not so terrible. And when there is no reason why it is not so terrible, then we begin protesting, proposing, asking, and all that. But right now, I'm gonna protect the authors. I'll protect the authors. It's okay if Congressman Kósa doesn't listen to me, I'll protect the authors. What I have already said to our fellow Member, Erik Bánki, is probably an object of penance. Most likely, they did something that someone somewhere didn't like, and they atone for having to submit such terrible billings to them. But I always say it's not true that you can't say no. So what happens then? You're gonna pull your signed resignation from the council from the vault? Or are they gonna take away one of those pig farms? Or don't you get one of your next purchases? Well, kids, life, credibility, my integrity to my children, the perception of future generations is more important than there will be 10, 20, 30, 100 million more today, or there won't be. We can't live three lives, one life knows what it takes. No wonder my fellow Member, Mr Attila Barcza, has gone out because the truth is that in pro-government speeches, it is always obvious that the pro-government Member agrees or disagrees with what he has to read. Our fellow Member Attila Barcza totally disagreed with what he had to read. Thank God, body language and emphasis always perfectly show that someone agrees with what he has to do or doesn't. What I wonder is that he was willing to be here for half an hour, and I would've escaped earlier. A young, great man who probably hasn't committed a crime in his life, and he won't, has to say and support such terrible things here in this House as a leading speaker. Poor thing's gonna be on the record for a lifetime, giving his name to such a terrible thing. But believe me, if you've signed a resignation from your congress, I'll be the first to protect you, and I'll prove that you've abused your good faith. Anyway, they went back 30 years in time. What was Fidesz in 1988? A neoliberal party, child of the SZDSZ, youth or youth department, or what we call it, and thirty years later we returned to the same point of neoliberalism, only in a slightly worse design. Because he's added a couple of lowlifes, capable of everything, performing himself as a professional, who sells his mother in jobs for 500 to 600 thousand forints, in different ministries, of course we never see. We always see people who are forced to bring these abominations to the House, who otherwise have nothing to do with it. Congressman Lajos Kósa has nothing to do with this bill, he will never nod, but I can see in his eyes that I am right. [[Lajos Kósa: You're wrong!]] So 30 years ago, the person who writes these abominations came and brought it to the House. Right side, Christian principles, love, union, nation zero, nothing. It's horse-zung! The activity has a harsh neoliberal, exploitative horrific system; it is virtually impossible to determine when it was the last time in Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: Soros-bérencek!]] Indeed, György Soros may have done very well, although I think the conditions are more favourable than those of his companies. But what's important is, where's the KDNP? Where's the KDNP? Well, Sunday's lockdown was about family going to church, and the whole family sitting together, the whole big family at the lunch table on Sunday, and we're not going shopping. No, we're not going shopping, we love each other there if we hate it or not. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Well, where's the KDNP? Where's the KDNP? ! [[Krisztina Hohn: Confession, I think.]] Well, where's the KDNP? Doesn't he know that he wants to make such a terrible suggestion, Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry? They don't know? Wasn't it announced at the faction meeting? Well, they should all be sitting here ragingly protesting that my Christian principles do not allow workers to work another day after a five-week work week. And if we had to love each other on Sunday, why do we still have to work our asses off on Saturday? ! Well, we won't have the energy to love anymore. Well, there won't be anyone to cook Sunday's lunch. I know these thoughts are extreme. [[Lajos Kósa: No! Bullshit!]] But, my fellow Members, the professional background of this has already been explained. That's the kind of rhetoric we're gonna be talking about. I always defend the authors and speakers on the pro-government side because I know they have nothing to do with the story. I'd like to meet some guys who, deep down in some law firm, write these hideous laws. That they don't have souls, that's for sure, and I don't think they're gonna get enough money to make it worth it. In the market, they could make a lot more than that. But let's go pragmatically to the numbers. The average age of Hungarian companies should now pay attention! 9.5 years. Which means what? Since 0.7 percent is at least 25 years old and about 10 percent are between 15 and 25 years old, this means that a very large percentage is only a few years old. So if he has to pay in three years, 40 percent of the employees have a chance that that company will be gone in three years. In fact, if this proposal goes through, I hope not, although the President of the Republic does not sign what does not go into it, he has already fallen completely into the depths of Schmitt Paul, we just have to fly through the window and sign there, but if by some miracle he does not sign it, then we are happy. But, by the way, imagine that this is what you're going to do with hiring companies. He'll be formed, there'll be a lot of employees, he'll prescribe the 400 hours, and then he'll take care of himself. There will be no debt, only to the employee, but since the debt has not yet entered into force, it does not need to be wound up and will be eliminated with a smooth termination. Well, the government has created this opportunity. Amazing! Amazing! But here's what's gonna happen, my colleague Lajos Kósa. It will be that I will start a campaign between lawyers and people, and we will draw up the clause that each employee, when he discusses the terms of employment with his employer nicely, will include as a clause that he already states that he does not overwork, because this proposal will only provide an opportunity for the employer. [[21.30]] And if the employee, when he concludes the employment contract, unfortunately we do not know that for the work contracts that are under way, but it is possible to spare future slaves, then the employer, since the employee accepts the employment contract with a clause, will get away with it. We will launch a social programme for this. We will talk everyone into it, because there is a shortage of workers to find a better-paying job, and then he will have to renegotiate the terms of employment and rule out overwork. We are going to do a social program for this, and we are going to involve all the lawyers who are willing to work for society on this matter without any consideration. Because we have nothing to talk about, we have to protect people from this insanity. Come on. I posted it on Facebook after my colleague Lajos Kósa told me how good this is for the employees, to apply to whom it is good. I thought I'd quote these letters I'd get in response, but I wouldn't dare quote, because there's no such thing as printing ink that tolerates the words that have appeared on my side. So I wouldn't quote you, but I can tell you one thing. There is no employee in Hungary for whom this is good, I report it. So if that's what this proposal was based on, then I want you to withdraw me now because we've already probed society and it's not good for him. So, no. And the last thing I want to talk to you about is money, economy, goals, human life. The economy is a tool. The goal is prosperity. In every democratic state of decent capitalism, the economy is a means of ensuring the well-being of society. It's not the goal of the economy. Under the Orbán government, there was an insanity, so the psychiatrists would really have a job to do, that money became almighty. Money is the goal. By the way, I do not know how much money would be enough, because about 18 generations could spend the money that has already been stolen from the state budget and EU funds through various flows of money. I can't imagine why I need all this anymore. We're wearing two shoes at the same time, one coat, one pair of pants. We can get in one car at a time, we can sleep in one bed at a time. We can't be in eight places at once, and even if every fidesz had 16 kids, even his great-grandson wouldn't be able to spend these money. So let them understand: in a country, citizens are happy when they see that the economy and money are not a goal, but an instrument for their well-being. I note that one of the most important elements of the conceptual element of democracy is that the democratic country seeks to create a welfare state. It strives for citizens to live well. These proposals serve nothing but slave society, servant society, vulnerability, a way of life that no elected politician can do when it is not good for citizens and voters, and they have not given their consent. I ask very much after our fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, said that this can be changed, that this can be influenced, that he should take the lead, even take the risk, although I do not think that it would be too big, and that we should start talking about what the real goal was, and that we should look at it when, in the end, something emerges or even withdraws it for ever, that the life and well-being of Hungarian citizens is the only aspect that we have to represent in this House. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-27-229	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Korózs can speak now, MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-230	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is quite difficult, when almost all the important things have been said, to come up with a topic about the proposal that may have a new effect. First of all, my fellow Members, I would like to begin by asking the question here before: where is the government? Where's the minister? As I see it, fellow Members, this is not allowed in Albania; in the Albanian Parliament, they do not allow themselves to have such an important, perhaps the most important law in the country's life this year in the hours of the night, and the minister is not here on behalf of the government. He's pushing his secretary of state here, and they're sending little Orbán here, who seems to have no idea what we're talking about here. That kind of mentality is beneath criticism. My fellow Members mentioned Péter Szijjártó's presentation in Düsseldorf. I would like to include you here because you have made it clear that the necessary workforce will be available for your increased investments. That's what MTI wrote. This clearly shows that the multi-enterprises will be fully served. If it breaks, if it breaks. It can also be seen, fellow Members, at least in recent years this has been shown that multinational companies, large capitalists, do not want to share profits, they do not want to give the Hungarian worker just as much of them as they have to, as required by the law, and all the profits these capitalists make here in Hungary are billions of dollars, billions of euros, and little of this is being repressed. Dear fellow Members, It is a false claim that a shortage of workers can be replaced by this bill. There is a shortage of labour, my fellow Members, where workers are not paid. Where the workers are paid, all the jobs are filled. My fellow Members also mentioned that there is a sector in Germany that has just stepped up its 28-hour working week. And here he is working out for 48 hours on behalf of Fidesz, Congressman Lajos Kósa. Yeah, it's a slave law. This law is inhuman. This law is vile and anti-family. Several people referred to this. And yes, it eviscerates the workers. There's nothing here but to work more for less money. I try to translate the Fidesz language into Hungarian, because the opposite of what has always been said in recent years has been realized here. If you say, Congressman, that this is an opportunity for workers, then this means in the Fidesz language that this will be mandatory. If you put it in a bill, as in your Fundamental Law, that something will make it possible, you will make it mandatory sooner or later. If you're saying it's protecting the workforce, it means in the Fidesz language that it's attacking the workforce. If you say it's good for the workers, it's gonna be bad. They already work 400-500 hours plus these workers. Here were the speakers before me, who made statements by the various trade union leaders in the last few days, whether we bring the union leader of the railroads here or if we bring the head of the Iron Trade Union here. They know exactly what this is about. One in four employees is subject to an infringement relating to working time. Sociological surveys can prove that. Falsifying records, falsifying labour records, working hours records. It can also be seen that a large part of the companies who have been trying to eviscerate their own workers and expect to be punished, say, by an Economic Competition Authority, calculate all the fines they can expect to be fined in advance. I'd like to give you a few examples of this three-year push. Tell me, in three years' time, who will remember that three years ago, on a Saturday afternoon, it was either a working day or a working day or a public holiday that wasn't supposed to happen anyway? And what happens if this company is liquidated in three years? Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned just before me that 40 percent of Hungarian companies will fall within three years. No one in the world can collect unpaid hours in these companies. [[21.40]] And what if this company is transformed without a successor? No one here is going to pay these wages. And what happens when they just take away the records? Oops, all the data on the Winchester is gone. We have seen this before, even with regard to the central server of the national tax authority. And what happens if the employee dies within three years? Who's gonna get the salary that hasn't been paid in three years? What I see is that it's simply untraceable, three years ago, when, who, how much he worked, and what wages he's entitled to. You can also see that 50 working days are being taken from the families here, and they'll pay you if they want to in three years. Oh, and there's 3-4 percent inflation? Three years from now, the money that was earned three years ago may be worth 10 to 12 percent less. Was it really appropriate what one of my better fellow Members said that Lajos Kósa would say if his monthly salary was paid in three months' time? Or what would the service providers who submit the bill, whether it is a gas supplier or a power supplier or a residential utility, and we would say that in three years we will pay the rent, not now we will pay for gas, electricity or the sewer. We could read clearly, as I mentioned, trade union proposals about how shamefully they eviscerate the people who work there. In the case of health workers, just one of the trade union leaders mentioned that in the year of families, they are working for an extra 8 hours instead of the normal 40 hours, not only doctors, health professionals, and there are still 8 hours available and 12 volunteer hours that they have to work off, but if they do not do so, they will simply be fired from their jobs. And this is where the settlement will take place every three months? I stress that I am talking about health care. But I can bring in the leader of the transport union who told me they didn't want to work in such a life-threatening job for another hundred hours. They still work 300 hours, especially bus drivers. Moreover, it is obvious that they are turning these people into slaves because they have to be available 30-40 hours extra, such as drivers, such as bus drivers. These drivers are away from the family 12 hours a day even if they work less, but they have to be at work because of availability. So it's clear here that there's an 11-12 hour presence at work right now. Dear fellow Members, If you want the labour force to be available here, if possible, people who work on tape, work on a continuous shift, those who work on shifts should not be obliged to work too much, but should reduce their working time. These people, who work next to a tape, who work on a continuous shift, or who work on a working schedule that they have to be there all the time, are there in their heads when they are not physically present, because simply physiologically, their body is completely shifted and worn out, so their working time should be reduced and not increased. And we see that when such an outrageous law is tabled, there is another bill running in parallel here in the House, where the preferential tax framework for football players is raised to HUF 500 million, when this outrageous law is planned and announced here, does it mean that footballers can bring home 425 million in net salary per year when their monthly salary is 35.4 million? Where do we live? And with one mouth they give favors, and with the other's mouth they abuse people who, as I mentioned earlier, work on a shift schedule, and usually by the time they reach retirement age, they are either disabled or most of them are not worth this retirement age. The other shame is that it keeps going, I see, to organizations across the border, it's a reference. We don't know if those investments are going to happen, we don't know if those football academies, those hockey academies, those boxing academies operating on the parish, are actually working at all, where hundreds of millions have been assigned. But from what? It is produced here by people working on the border in three shifts, and from their taxes and their contributions, there is the money that is transferred outside the border, and no one can ever tell what these stadiums were built from, or where these money has gone, where the money that has been allocated to these organizations has gone. To conclude, once again, understand that there is a shortage of labour in this country only where the worker is not paid. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-27-231	Thank you, too. We now have a two-minute comment, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik.
u2018-11-27-232	Mr President, Dear House, Although Mr Lajos Kósa and his friend as Secretary of State sometimes pretend not to listen, I know that they are listening to what is being said in this debate. [[Lajos Kósa: We're watching you the whole time! This is a serious debate!]] Press a button if you're so brave, Mr. Kosha. Don't yell at me. [[Lajos Kósa: No, I'm telling you, we're listening!]] We'd listen to you, too, if you were brave enough to speak up, although you haven't shown any signs of that. If you are so brave, please explain to me how, in explaining your new multi-smoothing step, the government with which I do not sympathise at all, which I am referring to the governments operating between 2004 and 2010, has supported the multi-companies concerned by much less than you have. It has provided substantially less job creation support and infrastructure investment in a non-refundable way. Let the numbers speak, Mr. Kósa. Between 2004-2010, the economic policy of the time, which I did not respect at the time, gave these companies, foreign companies, those who steal profits from Hungary in the order of a thousand billion dollars, because they do not participate in public burdens, you know that, and I know that. So 130.2 billion. Between 2010 and 2017, you provided HUF 255.6 billion in grants to these companies. Explain to me how, if you have found out in a hundred billion-dollar scale that you are overstepping these multi-networks, how can you now eliminate the suspicion that you have admitted to doing this madness for the benefit of German car manufacturers and other of you. How can you rely on the interests of Hungarian workers? This is not a simple bill to eliminate housing savings where appropriate. You're playing with people's lives here, Member. The number of accidents at work increased from 17,000 to 23,000 covers dead people in the background, dozens of Hungarian workers who have passed away. And this number, I'm not saying you want to increase, but you're letting it escalate. And you couldn't give your name to that, a decent man. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-233	We will continue with the speech of the Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman László Varga, MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the lack of television broadcasting, i.e. public broadcasting, has a very negative impact on the debates in Parliament. It was also said here that we could not even know the position of one of the factions about the specific legislation before us, not the KDNP, who repeatedly said, their faction repeatedly said how family-friendly they are, and how much they do to allow Hungarian workers to spend adequate time at home among their loved ones. It is not by chance that they have failed to speak or to speak in the debate today. I think you should be very ashamed of yourself for that, too. But the time when we are discussing this may also be unworthy, because it is almost ten o'clock here, and the period, which is a typical period of the session, comes slowly at the end of November, beginning of December, at this stage of the year, you almost always bring in proposals that are thought to be conflicted, which are contrary to the interests of a wide range of society, and you think that this will somehow be pushed through, their proposals in this direction, and that will be forgotten at Christmas. Four years ago, I note that during this period, they tried to introduce an institution called the Internet, where Hungarian society was very hard outraged and your support fell very seriously. [[21.50]] I think if you want to test Hungarian society, then I think that, in agreement with all opposition representatives, as I have watched the debate here, we can say how far we can go on this matter: so far and no more! This proposal can only be withdrawn. This proposal is openly anti-worker, but it fits into the line that you have done on this issue in the last eight years. The Code of Work and the set of laws governing this issue all over the world, i.e. I say that in better-born countries, it seeks to balance the unbalanced relationship that obviously employers have a significant dominant position, where appropriate, in this relationship with employees. Employees are always more vulnerable in this situation, in fact, they have less interest in it. It therefore provides an institutional framework for this type of legislation to ensure that they are able to properly enforce their interests. How did you react to that? When the government was taken over after 10 o'clock, almost immediately, otherwise I note that the right to strike was abolished in Hungary just a few days before Christmas, and it can be said that it was abolished because they can say that it exists in some form, but while in the past there have been numerous support for various types of job cessations in oppositions, their real, meaningful organization has been impossible. After that, a labor code was adopted despite all our objections, even though we have tabled countless amendments. You can remember that there was a detailed debate here in this House all night, it went on for the next day, yet this work law was adopted, which is usually said to create a flexible labour market. I would like to say to you that you have made the Hungarian workers flexible, and this is outrageous, because increasing competitiveness at this price is unacceptable. It was very well said, and I do not know which of my fellow Members is the goal of prosperity, and in fact economic competitiveness can only be the means to do so. Obviously, this is not in your dictionary, and your substantive actions are against it, and they are now unmasking it. Péter Szijjártó, what you said here, not literally, but in substance, is that German investors are pleased with the government's labour market proposals, which is amazing! For whose sake should we be political in this House? For the sake of the masses of Hungarian people, for the sake of Hungarian families, for the benefit of Hungarian workers. We need to protect their interests first. They are sitting on the other side of the horse, ladies and gentlemen of the government. In fact, I would like to refer to the fact that I have been told a lot of things here in substance about why they can do this. Why can they do that? Why can't you just smile and say anything and shit about this whole debate in this House? It's obviously part of what happened in the election. Of course, a lot of undignified, unworthy instruments have been used to abuse their dominant position in this campaign. I think they might have done well, but they couldn't have achieved such an outstanding result, and they wouldn't have had two thirds of them if they hadn't used these naughty tools, that's for sure. The OSCE has also said that it has been very clear that this election has not been fair, but you forget it, you refer to people when it is in their interest; when it is not in their interest, of course, you do not deal with them or make decisions contrary to their interests. So, of course, you have achieved their result by pursuing a full-scale attack and dismantling the Hungarian rule of law. You know, the Attorney General was a fidesz, and I could list all the positions that have been taken completely, without any democratic foundation. However, there is one lesson to be learned from today's debate, I think, and I say this to us, my fellow opposition Members. It is also included in this result that although many well-intentioned people and many well-intentioned opposition politicians suggested that there should be deeper cooperation in order to replace the government, this could not actually be achieved or could not be achieved to an adequate degree. It's a historical mistake. It's a historical mistake. I don't want to be rude about this right now, but it's also a part of this that can happen. Let us at least try to cooperate on the specific issue, but I suggest this very specifically. Such proposals have been made with regard to the Constitutional Court, where appropriate with regard to amendments, but I think that any instrument that remains to be used as democracy in this country may still be used, in order to make this whole proposal impossible in this form, and to persuade you to either withdraw it or otherwise transform it into one that is in the interests of Hungarian workers through countless amendments. I think there's a backup in here. I'd like to say so far and no longer. This is the same type of legislation that we have seen in many cases, not value-based, but interest-based legislation. That's what today was all about, and that's what it's gonna be about, and I can see the parliamentary work for the next few weeks. I am very sorry that the public and public media, or radio stations, cannot make this public to the Hungarian people, so that they can see, hear what is going on here, and at what level the Hungarian Parliament works, that the pro-government representatives do not bother to at least respond to the questions that we have said. So I think they're gonna go with it like they're on the Internet, that's what I trust. I hope that this insufferable, anti-family and anti-worker proposal will have to be withdrawn as a result of the huge public uprising, and I propose to my fellow opposition Members that we really work together on this and that we find the democratic opportunities and means that will make the authors and the government better understand. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-235	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-11-27-236	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's not an accident to pick a date. We wonder why this debate starts at 8:00 p.m. Well, just in order to keep as few people as possible aware of it, the more secret this debate will be, so that the Fidesz MEPs can get away with it as much as possible to defend such an unpleasant proposal here in this House. Lajos Kósa has been punished here for saying a lot of stupid things in the past time, that he has to listen to this, but then, in fact, he will be voted out quickly, and they will get through this question. I would say to my fellow Member in Turda that I think he is wrong, that Fidesz did not sell the workers for thirty pieces of silver, that Fidesz never represented the workers in life. They always talk about it a lot and then do nothing; they have always done precisely and accurately what the banks have asked of them and what multinational companies have asked them to do. This government has an agreement with the EBRD, which has not been translated into Hungarian, just so that no one can read it, who does not speak English, which is about that no harm can befall banks in Hungary, for example, in connection with foreign exchange lending. Wind Bernadett also said that Fidesz people should work overtime. Well, God save us from the Fidesz working overtime. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] How many more suggestions would you make if you guys were working overtime? I think it's bad enough for this country to come into this Parliament so many times, because they're bringing in so much crap, it's definitely full of attics, so don't work overtime, that's for sure. But what's important, Congressman, is tell me who asked for it, because I don't understand exactly. Who asked for this amendment of the law? I've read the trade union statements. It does not seem to me that those who call it the slave law have told you all this proposal, but are organising a non-supportable proposal, a demonstration, criticizing every letter and character of this amendment; so we assume that the trade unions have not asked you for this amendment, because they could not ask for it, because they have not met them yet, but this law is already in Parliament. Okay. Then who else could have asked for it? Did the employers ask you? Please, I have also read what the employers have said. A wide range of employers did not come up as a need. - Quote. - What's that? Another quote: -A small layer of employers would be helpful. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[22.00]] Third quote: Regarding the 400 hours overtime, MGYOSZ Vice-President noted that the general introduction of this amendment was not supported because it represents a very high workload for workers, which is also harmful to health. Then tell me, who asked for it? You said people would like to work more. So, then, the workers, the people, have asked themselves that they want to work more. Now, I've been to Zalagyegyen, Zagyvasántó and Gyöngyös, and I've been told by the employees that I'd like to ask you to wear these jeans and the teddy top in which you're in order to honor the House, as usual, that you'd be chased with a heart shovel and a barbed board. So they wouldn't be begging you for more work, they would be chasing you to bring such a proposal to the House with your fellow Member. So the question is, then, why on earth would such a proposal be brought before the Parliament, if it could even cause you political harm, because I do not think that the Fidesz voters working in other places than the tape are happy to force them to do such overtime and such slave labor. Plus, you're the most qualified broker among politicians. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea laughs.]] As a result, you must be aware of the economic implications of this, since you have had a keen insight into the various economic projects and have been able to do serious business as a private person, so you can certainly see that this relationship can be economically detrimental to the Hungarian national economy in the long term. Now, whose interest is it? One of them wonders why a pig farmer and a taxidermist put a bill like this in here, well, that's because it's important to them, because you and your oligarch buddies, the Mészáros Lőrincek and the Garancsik, and I don't know who they are, are trying to get the Hungarian workers to work on it so that they can get even more eviscerated behind the mask of national capital and the formation of national entrepreneurs. This is one of the options that they want to produce a cheaper workforce for themselves, because they have not yet been able to steal enough, so they would actually eviscerate Hungarian workers. Well, that's why he deserves a blowtorch. But the other is also an interesting story, and that is, Mr. Kósa, didn't you make some secret deal with the BMW? [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes, you can!]] Isn't there some sort of backup deal you forgot to tell me? That the only reason BMW is coming to Hungary is because you are going through this amendment because no neighbouring country has agreed to do so, and the governments of other competing countries have said that, no, respected multinational companies, thank you very much, that we can't do this to our own citizens? Or the fantastic strategic agreements you're making with multinational companies for hundreds of billions of forints, could they have asked for this? After all, the employees, I say to you once again, the employer's representative, the vice-president of MGYOSZ, said that a large number of employers did not come up with a demand, would be of some assistance to a small number of employers. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Well, tell me, which is the narrow layer that came looking for you. You know, like the business of buying wonder shares for being known as the Broker Lajchi. So who was the one who asked you to give it to me? Who's the one who hired your tagging co-worker to run this law with the two of you? Whose interest is it for this House to vote on such a law? Either it's yours or, where appropriate, some secret backup deal that they want to deny to the National Assembly and the Hungarian people, once again, so that you don't forget: barbed board, heart shovel. So there's no other option. My colleague here mentioned that there are no amendments or modifications here! This law must be withdrawn, this is unacceptable in all respects, because it is in no one's interest, not trade unions, not employers, nor workers, and from now on it makes no sense for anyone in this House to shape it with any modification in my view. So there's one option: if you want to behave fairly, you have to take it all back. Secondly, I would like to say a sentence to the opposition parties. The Gruevski case is also very important, but I think that this matter is even more important, so if someone, someone, has to work together in something, then that is certainly the issue in which the opposition must join together. Because of me, the Gruevski can stay here forever, if you want, in one case, if this law is revoked. If this is the price for him, then let us give him this price, and then we must not examine it in a committee of inquiry, but withdraw it, and to do so, Hungarian trade unions must give all opposition parties the help that if protests are made, there must be many there, if any other action is initiated, then behind it must be lined up regardless of party policy, because this law is about the lives of all of us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-237	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, May Other be Politics.
u2018-11-27-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Now, I would like to ask you to testify to the courage of disdaining death, and to look for those little green buttons in front of you, and to press one of them to speak. Do not escape the story, that if you have brought this outrageous slave law before the House, but be brave enough to press that button, and here, in the parliamentary debate, which must be carried out late at night, you will comment on the questions raised. And it is one thing that opposition representatives have to answer questions and suggestions, but most of all Hungarian people, workers, owe very, very urgently an explanation as to how this bill that eviscerates people could have come into this House, how this could have happened. So press that button because we're talking about the lives of millions of people here, and in a week or a half, they could ruin the lives of millions of people. The brazenness of it is beyond the fact that this law came before the House, how it came to be here. As an individual representative's motion, they do not even have to talk to any relevant professional organisation or stakeholders about it, and they explain how they came up with the phenomenal idea that from now on the week will be 48 hours of work, everyone will be working an extra day, and the Hungarian people won't be able to make a better living. Explain that to me. And I also expect an explanation from my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, on how to give his name to such a bill. Because it is also included in this bill that it is possible to spend a lot of overtime, that these funds will not be received by employees in good time, that freedom will not be granted to them, and I would think that there would be room for you to speak out against these measures here in relation to overtime, let alone you bringing them into Parliament! How can this happen? It is a shame and a shame that the government does not take this bill for its actions, for its ideas, for all its dirty deals, for the consequence that, on the one hand, there is no minister here, and on the other hand, the government does not submit this bill to the House, if they insist on it being here. They mentioned that they would then negotiate with the unions. First of all, I'm asking you who you're with. With organisations that are specifically, say, loyal to the government and that will nod and tell you that it's okay? Or are they even willing to take a moment to deal with interest organisations that actually represent the interests of Hungarian workers and are they considering it? 'Cause they don't seem to be showing any willingness to do that. And it doesn't have to be the day after tomorrow and the year and a half, it should have been a long time ago. They didn't dare ask. They're incredibly cowards. They're incredibly cowardly, and they're not even willing to admit it to themselves. This slave law clearly shows that the week of work will increase by an extra day, and it becomes clear that employers will do to their employees what they want, if they do not give up freedom, they will not give out that if they are kept working overtime, that is what they will do, if they decide not to be paid, they will not be paid, and the government will not just sit back and watch it, but it will cause this situation itself, by adopting a code of shameful work, against which all the representatives of opposition have spoken, and not only would they correct the regulation, but they will make the situation even worse. [[22.10]] And to look at the Hungarian realities: my fellow Members, with the good times of the workers, do not work for three years in a workplace, they will also be forced to leave their existing jobs. Young people will flee abroad because there will be no perspective left for them. Total vulnerability, wages do not increase, and VAT is still high in Hungary. This law is clearly in the interest of the multinationals. I asked the Prime Minister here in Parliament for a reason why he was supplying Hungarian people to multinational corporations. How can this government talk about sovereignty when it is an unconditional provider of the interests of multi-company companies? And I didn't say for a reason that the Hungarian Prime Minister and the government became chess figures in other people's games. I'm asking you what position you're going to get for this. How can you talk about sovereignty, who have you made a deal with? Because it really looks like you're messing with Hungarian workers, making their lives impossible, playing with your amazing overload, and what are you using it for? To take positions after the elections to the European Parliament, to play chess with these measures, to serve multi-enterprises and thus to gain positions. And it also arises that he is trying to compensate for the government's perhaps extremely flawed decisions. Did someone ask you to do something, beyond the hundred billion-dollar tax relief that you're giving to large companies, to soften the regulations even more so that the workforce is more vulnerable with artificially low wages? They are messing with the future of Hungarian people, which is about what positions they will receive in the European Commission and in Parliament and in their own party families. This is not about anything else, and the Hungarian people do not have any benefits from it, but they only suffer damage and only damage. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that while the Prime Minister here in Parliament has told us how much the multi-company tax has been taxed, we can see, by the way, that 100 billion tax incentives, the total vulnerability of the labour force, in essence anything can be done to Hungarian people, extremely low wages, and all in order to serve the interests of multinational corporations that are otherwise responsible for two crises. For example, for the 2008 economic crisis, and, yes, indirectly, even for the migration crisis, and you are serving these large companies unconditionally, and you are referring to an increase in competitiveness here. You can continue to blow this balloon, you can cosmeticize the numbers or improve the statistics, but this is a balloon, and if there is a next crisis, which unfortunately there is a great deal of chance, then the Hungarian economy is also vulnerable to it. After all, this balloon, this so-called competitiveness, is being artificially maintained, which does not mean real competitiveness, but that Hungarian workers and young Hungarians are being herded to assembly plants. They say that if they've brought such garbage to the House because I can't say otherwise, unfortunately, where is the real increase in the minimum wage in relation to this. Where is he? Has such a proposal been made in Parliament? There's nothing like that. What was done at all was a reduction in employer contributions, net incomes did not substantially increase. They didn't grow. And it would also contribute to competitiveness if Hungarian people could buy and consume at home, have wages that they could make a living at all, from which they could support their families. Neither was the VAT reduced, we are still talking about 27 percent, and there is no need to mention one or two examples taken away, because this did not help the Hungarian people's lives overall. It is clear that you are pursuing a very conscious social and economic policy. It is not a matter of bringing something into the House, of voting quickly, and of making a mistake or of doing it with good intentions, but it is true that it does not work that way. No, it's a completely conscious policy, which is all about being able to go to a community service or go to work at a construction plant like this, basically for nothing, where they can work him to death. That's what this is about. The cheaper the Hungarian labour force, the more you can play chess, with positions, multi-companies, or with pocket money, with the discount of your own businesses, and all at the expense of Hungarian people. And if it's public service, then a lot of people don't just get into community service with no other option, and that's why they're taking this job, but let's mention those people who get kicked out of their existing jobs, state institutions, municipalities, schools, kindergartens, other institutions, and take back the same people as public workers just to have to pay them half as much money. This is the social policy of Fidesz, that is how important Hungarian people are to you. They have already cut the licenses of the trade unions infinitely, took away early retirement and did not care about what would happen to these people. They basically disabled the strike, and it has to be said that the vocational training system, no matter how much they tried to machine with it, and that it will work well, no, it doesn't work properly. You are doing everything you can to prevent young people from getting the knowledge that is truly competitive, yeah, because you would have to secure competitive incomes, competitive wages, then you would have to raise it, but you will do everything you can to ensure that XX is a competitive income. Keep their knowledge and opportunities to the highest standards of the century. Meanwhile, the world accelerated tremendously and the 21st century. The Hungarian workforce will not be able to meet the challenges of the century, young people cannot learn properly, they have no chance of gaining competitive knowledge in the country, and yes, as my fellow Member, Vienna, said, is extremely close. Is that what they're trying to do? Is that the goal of emptying the country? Hundreds of thousands will leave Hungary again if this bill is passed. People are gonna get sick of it, you can say that, health and spiritual. And here, in the year of families, rather than trying to spend more time with the children, how to pay more attention to the young, they're gonna take away the rest of that little time together, and the parents are gonna be tired from their work. The public education system is unable to remedy this deficiency, and it is not your concern, because parents cannot be replaced. But they also destroyed the education system. Families will be torn apart, many will go abroad, and many will not be able to provide adequate care for their families, since wages will not otherwise increase. I would like to point out that there is no need to hand out handouts before the elections, Elizabeth's vouchers, small-scale awards at the end of the year, glass beads. No, that's not what we need. We need predictability, and we need to raise wages and protect Hungarian workers. Not only are they not protected, but they're constantly taking action against them. In addition, instead of providing continuous benefits to multinationals, small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported, which are small and medium-sized Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises operating locally, because they could keep the workforce in place and create real jobs. [[22.20]] You can be quite sure that whatever measures are being taken, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian workers will not be so tired as not to drive themselves away. This bill, and all the measures they're doing, will have its fast and its consequences, and they won't be able to run away from it as cowardly as they do in Parliament.
u2018-11-27-239	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind for two minutes.
u2018-11-27-240	Dear Lajos Kósa, I would like you to take part in the debate, so to facilitate this, I will ask you two questions. My first question sounds nice, listen to me. My first question is that if you spend billions to hold national consultations with Hungarian citizens, why didn't you consult the Hungarian trade unions in advance. My second question is that if we have seven minutes in this country for a parent's child, because life is already so messed up, and as my fellow Members, you have heard that we are no longer afraid to stay at home with our sick children, because we are afraid that we will be kicked out of work, and that we will not have the monthly fix from which we can support our family, have they calculated the consequences of this proposal for Hungarian demography? That's all I have to ask.
u2018-11-27-241	Thank you, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju for two minutes, DK.
u2018-11-27-242	Thank you very much. Well, good evening to everyone and the only Fidesz congressman who's around. Dear Lajos Kósa, I think it's your big day, and you're the one who made us talk about a law here today that makes people's lives miserable. And it creates such a shameful situation that just when we were talking about pensioners, we were talking about pensions, then it came to mind that, yes, the rules that you are making are the result of the fact that pensions and pensions are actually being used by fewer people, because they are being worked so many times and so many times, with the rules that you have made, which are putting workers in a more and more difficult position. When you first changed the labor code, you created a serious situation. Now they're putting forward a proposal that puts people and workers and workers in the position of working a day more a week. Now that another fellow Member is back, and so the two of you can discuss it now, I trust they will have a sane response to why someone needs to work a day more a week. Why would they force you to do that, why would they want to create a situation that you have planned here? And give us an answer tonight, just because you know there's going to be a big protest on December 8th. We have to face the unions, not just tomorrow, December 8, and then there's gonna be a moment when you have to realize that what you did today was a huge mistake. I want this law revoked.
u2018-11-27-243	Thank you. Next speaker Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2018-11-27-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must admit that I have said many things in my speech as a lead speaker, but I was inspired to speak again that Lajos Kósa is suffering so much that it is a pleasure for me. And I want to watch this. He is suffering spectacularly from this debate in Parliament, and we should at least have the pleasure of discussing this law here within the walls of Parliament. The other thing is that Attila Mesterházy also gave an idea of what kind of business should be set up in Hungary so that people can work for free, and even give an idea: we should create a heart shovel-making and barbed board-making company, because I think that Hungarian voters would be willing to do things for free so that they could produce things and then chase Fidesz politicians with these tools. But to translate the word a little more seriously, I am slowly beginning to be glad that this garbage has been sent out to the Hungarian families. [[It presents the national consultation questionnaire.]] I'm getting more and more happy about it. Because I think they're getting more and more nervous, and I think we're just going to analyze these questions, what it's about, and how it's related to this amendment of the law, all these great questions that you've asked. The first is the most beautiful thing to begin with: do you agree that population loss should be addressed not by immigration but by stronger support for families? And in the meantime, we're negotiating a slave law. You know, my dear fellow Members, parenting requires a man and a woman, and I need to be at home in most cases. Now, if you work six days out of seven days, I think you'll think of everything but making babies, dear congressmen. Because they will be so tired that they will not be able to do so. Now, this is not going to solve your or Hungary's population problems, and we are not going to be able to manage that successfully. The next question, the second, and the introduction is one of the most interesting: the government's aim is to balance work and family. Now, fellow Members, that didn't work out again. I think if the voters bring this up now, they'll get more and more nervous. I recommend it, because there's a lot of people watching live coverage on one of the news portals, get it out, I suggest they keep rolling, reading, studying what this garbage is all about. Next, number three. According to research, Hungarian young people want more children than they can eventually take on, and the question is this: you agree that young couples should be given support to start their own lives. And you will vote in favour of the slave law. Well, congratulations on that, too. Question number four, that's wonderful, as it's led up to. It is a serious task for a mother to perform at home and at work at the same time. Special attention should be paid to mothers who raise more than one child and also to the world of work. Now, if you've raised so many children and you've been able to make it, let's do extra work very quickly, so you can't do this. We're warning them that these two can't do it at the same time! Well, let's give them one more swing: work more. There'll be something at the end of it. That was nice, too. The sixth question, opening again is beautiful. Many believe that it is important that parents, if they want to, return to work as soon as possible after having children. Now, you're gonna make sure they don't even think about it. Nor do they have to go back, nor do they have to raise children or even have children in Hungary. Question eight. Well, that's nice, too. More and more dangers for our children, despite what parents do to protect them. The government considers it an important task to review the situation of child protection in Hungary from time to time and to take strict action against phenomena that threaten children's health and development. I've figured out what this phenomenon is. Lajos Kosa! He's sitting in Parliament. The biggest threat to Hungarian children, he wants to force mothers and fathers to slave work now. Congratulations, it would be worth a report, my fellow Member, but I may be thinking about doing it. [[22.30]] I told you the ninth in my lead speakers that every child would have a right to his mother and father. I think after the slave law, we have some doubts about that, too. The last one, the tenth one. These family support systems, which you have introduced, should be laid down in a two-thirds law, the Fundamental Law. I hope you're not thinking about Lajos Kósa, because it is now very deep that this slave law will also be finalised in the Fundamental Law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to reevaluate it now, so that every mother and father of the family can read it, look at it, taste these words, because it is very, very instructive, which is written here, and I think we will learn a lot from it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-245	Thank you very much. Lajos Kósa will be in order for two minutes. [[Intercoms from the opposition: Ooh! Two minutes? Applause from the opposition benches.]] It wouldn't have been two minutes, it would have been in order.
u2018-11-27-246	Mr. President, a two-minute trial break, please order.
u2018-11-27-247	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a trial break.
u2018-11-27-248	Thank you very much. [[It's a short break.]]
u2018-11-27-249	I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2018-11-27-250	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Congressman, I would like to argue with my fellow Member Varga, or with anyone who thinks that this bill should be tampered with and amended in any way, with amendments, where appropriate. I think, first of all, that we should give respect to the workers, and since we know precisely that neither Mr Kósa nor the government has sat down with the workers, I think that this is an illegitimate, not in a legal sense, but an illegitimate proposal. I understand, Congressman, that you will be there tomorrow, but perhaps even after a month, after the Fidesz majority voted and then sat down to negotiate with them, but we have seen these negotiations, and I remember when the Government led by Viktor Orbán promised those who were fighting for home care to sit down with them, and then they started to print a propaganda text, and when it turned out that they really wanted to agree, the discussion was over. I think that we, on the opposition side, should at least at first give the workers the respect that, without the workers, we will not implement such a decision and its amendment. My father always told me that when I was a kid, that, you know, son, if the worker doesn't work, then you don't, and that's what I can tell you, if the worker doesn't work, then we'll all starve to death here, dear fellow Members. I think that is what I miss most about my fellow Member, Mr Kósa, the humility, the humility that is essential for the performance of his duties and quality. Attila Mesterházy said that it is not in the interests of the employer, it does not need to be explained, but the employees' representatives said that it is not really in their interest either. And let me add to this line of thought that the economy has no interest in it. Congressman, this would create a socially unhumanly sustainable situation, an overtime of 400 hours would result in a reduction in the quality of workers, a reduction in health, and I have been told about emigration. And I don't think it's in the interest of the Fidesz majority to push through legislation with force, which is not in anyone's interest here, or, I'm sorry, to be specific, to one person, but this person is probably only known by Lajos Kósa. Congressman, let's not turn Hungary into China of Europe. We don't want to be the nation in Europe who'll put it together for a dollar. That's your responsibility, more than mine, and all my fellow Members. And let me ask you a question, a personal one, if you still go out with people, only in case you don't go out, then don't press a button, then I know you won't go out with your man: how will you look the unpopular Debrecen in the eye if you accidentally venture out into the city square? [[22.40]] This is a very important question, because I understand, I understand everything, and I also understand that Fidesz was preparing for demographic governance, but let's face it, I think that my colleague Kósa will understand that during overtime he is creating such a difficult family; very cumbersome, cumbersome, and the work is not going either. I demand minimal respect for the workers, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-251	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda for two minutes, Dialogue.
u2018-11-27-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When we were thinking about whose interest it was, and who could get what from whom, I remembered the folklore that Lajos Kósa himself wrote that my mother was not trying to impress anyone. And obviously there is no connection to this story between the two BMW 530e iPerformance cars and the BMW K1600 motorcycle with which his mother, who wasn't a stooge, was armed by anyone's pig-farming company, and on a motorcycle of this type, Lajos Kósa was seen rolling into an excellent Fidesz event. I really just wanted to recite this unparalleled story here in two minutes as a colorful framer, complementing how to think that when the city of Debrecen receives this investment, and when Lajos Kósa, the great son of Debrecen, was mayor of the National Assembly, pushes this bill before the National Assembly, which is the third author, who has so far been unworthy of little, to serve the interests of German car manufacturers, according to Gábor Bányai's personal declaration, contrary to the statement of the Fidesz leader, who said that domestic businesses required this in order to facilitate administration. So, as the author confessed, the service of German car manufacturers on this front seems to be moving forward with complete success. I hope Lajos Kósa gets a good ride on this BMW K1600 motorcycle. We hope that he will take care of himself and we will wish him good health for the rest.
u2018-11-27-253	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind for two minutes.
u2018-11-27-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Kósa, You really shouldn't have come to the debate. He's sitting here, he's on the phone, he's on the laptop, now there's a secretary of state, and there's another fidesz here; I'm telling you, that's what they're doing with the country, and they're playing dumb. It doesn't work that way. They're not messing with us. They are accountable to voters. You did not promise restrictions in the 2018 campaign, and this is part of it. So be kind and stand up in the Hungarian Parliament, you will receive your salary with public money, everything here, electricity and all public money, and tell us what you want with this bill. Disprove what the opposition has said for hours. Tell me. Take part in the debate. Telling you your thoughts at the beginning, then sitting down, and in five hours' time you'll be able to sum it up, it's not a debate. That is not what we or our constituents need. There were pig farms, BMW cars, there were German farms, there were many examples here, we talked about families, we read the whole national consultation, and you don't respond. What if it is not a complete disregard for voters? They're not looking at us, we're representing people here, you and we are ignoring voters. And don't explain to me that you want to give them 400 extra hours, while two people from all of Fidesz were actually able to come into your work to complete this law; the one who came up with the bill didn't come into the debate. Do you want to give extra work to anyone here when you don't even do your own job? And where's the minister? I was waiting for him to show up here at 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., saying that he had an urgent public mission, and that wasn't a soccer tour, and he'd tell me what he thought about it. We don't know anything about him. So, we're tired of sneaking around, discussing laws under the radar. Confess.
u2018-11-27-255	Thank you. The next two-minute Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2018-11-27-256	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In previous thoughts, it came up here, who was the real brainstormer who came up with this and brought this bill to us, but not ours, because we are holding on to this and talking about how pointless it is, how harmful it is, how harmful it is for workers and workers. But now let us also look at what happens on the side when Members who, today or at yesterday's committee meeting, said that they were elected individually by individual representatives when they go home and, by the way, meet with the voter there. What will they say? How are you going to tell those people, Congressman, that we voted for it, that you even took the initiative to work more anyway? Will they still be as proud as they were yesterday at the committee meeting or here in Parliament? And then the same mayors who, by the way, have a good time on the ground, and think that because of what, as alms, you create there with a stadium, a swimming pool, and create a situation as if they deserved it, and get some kind of support and construction opportunity, and don't talk about the rest now, you have to listen in return and tolerate people coming in every day and even telling you in reception hours what they have to suffer for you when you bring in such a bill, then how will they do it? What will Zsolt Újpesten Wintermantel say when I ask him this at his public hearing? Does he support what you do, by the way, that you have to work 400 hours more? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Well, congratulations on that, but I'd rather have the bill revoked.
u2018-11-27-257	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Before I give the floor to Mrs Márta Demeter, I would like to say that I will withdraw the floor from any Member if he does not come to the point if he is personal and does not bring new elements into the debate. Inside the vice-president's office, I listened to the speakers, and we wrote about what was said in this debate. I'm doing it by the house rules, and if anyone doesn't like it and disagrees with it, I'm gonna take the floor one more time. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] So I'll give you the floor... Are you a rendezvous candidate for the LMP? [[Antal Csárdi: Yes.]] Here you go, Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2018-11-27-258	Mr President, I'd like to ask you what point of the house rules you've made, because you've said that you've made a decision based on the rules of the house. I would like to ask what point of the house rules is that which makes this possible and requires it. Thank you.
u2018-11-27-259	Thank you very much. Then please note, Congressman Csárdi: Parliamentary Act 46. Paragraph (1) of the Rules of Procedure: The speaker who, during his or her speech, is clearly unwarrantedly dissociating from the subject or repeating his or her own or any other speech in the same debate, shall be asked by the chairman of the meeting to come to the subject at the same time to warn of the consequences of the inefficiencies of the notice. [[For signal:]] Paragraph 1:. The speaker who, in his speech, is obviously unreasonably different from the subject, or who repeats his or her own or another speech unnecessarily in the same debate, shall be asked by the chairman to come to the point, at the same time to warn him of the consequences of the inefficiencies... (To be indicated:) Antal Csárdi, two minutes. In this circle, Antal Csárdi, LMP, has a two-minute window.
u2018-11-27-260	Thank you for the floor. I think that there are many people here who frame overtime by bringing extra money to the worker, and I think that, for example, this false idea must be dealt with once and for all. It is true that your statistics, the average earnings that the vast majority of people have never seen, have actually been shown in this way, but honourable Member Kósa, honourable State Secretary, because there is another Secretary of State on the phone, to whom I also address, what I would like to say, is a very wrong direction to finance the wage increase from overtime. No! [[22.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The job has to be paid. If the job is paid, I think people will stay here and run the economy. If, on the other hand, this bill, which would increase the number of mandatory overtimes to 400 per year, once again, would eviscerate workers to the extent that it is not sustainable. Therefore, I can only repeat the fact that my colleague, Mr Lajos Kósa, is slow to say that I very much ask that you withdraw and consult with the employees' representatives. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-261	Thank you. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2018-11-27-262	Mr President, Dear House, All I can say to my fellow Members is that they should be ashamed of what they are doing to the opposition here, doing to themselves, doing to the voters behind us. I would like to note that this government is trying to mitigate labour shortages in the most nasty way, in order not to spread the framework of the general debate. I would like to say to you, Mr Kósa, that the impossible situation in front of which the young Hungarians are claiming to be priceless housing prices, priceless rents, and an inoperable problem, because of which many go abroad, will not be able to solve with the attempt to manage such a shortage of labour. I would like to tell you that the increase in the cost of construction resulting from the shortage of labour, the further revamping of property prices, will continue in the same way, because on other fronts you will fail to develop a public housing program, you will fail to regulate the airbnb and other alternative internet accommodation sharing portals or at least to include them under public burdens. They also fail to tidy up the rental market. With the CSOK, they clearly want to favour the more fortunate social classes. And by plowing up the state leg of housing savings, the most disgusting demographic atomic bomb was planted by a government that announced the year of its own families. During the year of these alleged families, a record number of evictions took place. And what hurts the most for us is that we invited you to the eviction events where the victims expected all the party representatives to attend, but you didn't have enough to appear even on one occasion and look into the eyes of those whose calvary was caused in a way that was lifelong. That's amazing, fellow Member.
u2018-11-27-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Varga is next for two minutes, MSZP.
u2018-11-27-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a debate for hours, which, of course, is very difficult to call a debate in the classic sense, as we are constantly saying our observations with my fellow opposition Members, and we are constantly telling them the problematic points that make this trade union movement, but now the broad masses of Hungarian society, call it the slave law. No reply has been received from my fellow Members in Fidesz. Lajos Kósa sits here and does not respond to comments. Obviously, there is also a tactical reason for this, and I think you expect us to run out of these comments, these comments, and then at the end you will give us your opinion, which we no longer respond to in this sense. So, in this sense, it is very difficult to call it a debate. I maintain, however, that this legislation, in the form that you have placed on Parliament's table in a face-to-face manner, is anti-worker, anti-family, and is unacceptable in this form. There is only one way to withdraw this proposal and forget it. This has happened before, at this time of the year, to withdraw from their initiative. I can only compare the proposal to their online initiative four years ago. Be brave, respond, develop a debate here, not just in the closing words, express your opinion on opposition contributions. Let a real debate arise and explain why this was put on the Parliament's table. I look forward to Mr Kósa's reply and look forward to a real, meaningful dialogue. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-265	Thank you, Congressman. Seven repeated speeches. First, I will give the floor to Mr László Varju, who has no repeated speeches. But in the meantime, I'll give you the rule of the house: paragraph 23, general debate. During the debate, further or repeated speeches shall be authorised by the chair of the meeting. If the chairman does not give the floor, at the request of the Member, the Parliament shall decide on this subject without debate by raising his hands. [[Defiance on the opposition side. Antal Csárdi: This is good for us!]] Since the Parliament is not capable of a quorum, the President will decide. [[Noise on the opposition side. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Judge Gevi!]] Read the house rules. You have the floor, Congressman Varju.
u2018-11-27-266	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think we should take this opportunity to continue the debate here for a long time, but it is not certain that the lack of television broadcasting in itself is, by the way, a very big disadvantage. Everyone had a chance to read the law that's right in front of us. Therefore, in the light of Mr President's warnings, let us deal with what is ahead of us and see what the law that Lajos Kósa has put before us is about. Therefore, the text of this law may need to be made known to the author in case this helps a lot and makes him wonder if it is time to withdraw it. So, this law is about amending certain laws relating to the organisation of working time in 2018 and the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work. In the context of the amendment of Law I of 2012 on the Code of Labour, Article 1 shall apply. Section 1, Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour, hereinafter referred to as the Labour Code, paragraph 87. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: It's a work day. The calendar day or 24 hours without interruption may be allocated to the calendar day if, on the basis of the schedule of work, the starting and completion of the working time of the day of assignment is not the same. Point 2. The Labour Code is 87. Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The seven, the calendar seven or the uninterrupted 168 hours, if the starting and completion of the working hours of the working day on the basis of the working schedule is not the same, may also be allocated to the calendar day. 2. §. The Labour Code is 94. Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Point 3. The duration of the working time limit, if justified by objective or technical or work organisation reasons, shall be no more than 36 months, as agreed in the collective agreement. 3. §. The Labour Code 97. Paragraphs 2 and 5 are replaced by the following: It's the general working order. The employer allocates the working hours five days a week from Monday to Friday. Paragraph 3. Working time may be unevenly divided in the case of a working time frame or accounting period. An uneven working time schedule if the employer is working from the day-to-day working hours, (b) the weekly rest day for the 105th period. (c) the weekly rest period referred to in Article 106; It shall be allocated by way of derogation from paragraph 1 of paragraph 1. Point 4. The employer shall notify the schedule of working time in writing for at least one week at least 168 hours before the start of the day-to-day working on the schedule. [[23.00]] In the absence of communication, the final working time schedule shall prevail. The employer may amend the reported working time schedule in paragraph 5 at least ninety-six hours before the start of the day-to-day working hours in which he or she manages or operates if unforeseen circumstances arise. The employer may also modify the reported working time schedule at the request of the employee or with his consent. That's Mt. 98. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: With regard to the accounting period, paragraph 93 is replaced by the following: § (2) to (4), paragraph 94. § 95 and Art. Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 5 The Mt. 99. The following paragraph 9 is added: In the case of an uneven working time schedule, the weekly working time for the function is a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) a) § 1 and 2 for a specified period or b) where there are objective or technical reasons or reasons for organisation of work, as provided for in a collective agreement, shall be taken into account on an average basis within 12 months. 6. Mt. 105. Article 105 is replaced by the following: Two rest days a week You have to schedule it. Weekly rest days can be distributed unevenly. In the event of an uneven working time schedule, at least one week's rest day shall be allocated after six consecutive working days. (3/3) In the event of an uneven working time schedule (a) point (b) shall be allocated at least one week's rest days per month to a multi-shift worker employed in the context of seasonal activity. (4) At least one week's rest period per month shall be set at 101. Except for paragraph 1 (f), it shall be allocated on Sunday. 7. Mt. 106. Article 3 is replaced by the following: ( 1) Instead of weekly rest days, an uninterrupted rest period of at least 48 hours may be divided weekly from the end of the scheduled day's working hours to the beginning of the next day's working hours. Instead of weekly rest days, an uninterrupted rest period of at least 48 hours (weekly rest period) from the end of the scheduled day's working hours to the beginning of the next day's working hours may be allocated on a weekly basis. (2) Weekly rest periods can be distributed unevenly. In the event of an uneven position, an uninterrupted weekly rest period of at least 40 hours and including one calendar day shall be allocated. (3/3) The weekly rest period is 101. Except for paragraph 1 (f), it shall be allocated at least once a month to Sunday. 8. Mt. 135. Paragraphs 1 to 2 of Article 87 shall be replaced by the following: Article 96, point (b) Paragraph 2 (c) of Article 122 Paragraph 5 (d) of Article 126 § 4 (e) Article 127 § ( 1) to (2) and ( 4), (f) to 134. It shall not depart from the provisions of paragraph 1. Collective contract (a) in 86, (b) in 88-93. Article 95 (c) Article 96 (d) Paragraph 3 (e) of Article 97. § (1) (f) Article 99 (g) Articles 101 to 108. Article 109, point (h) Paragraph 2 (i) of Article 111 (j) Articles 113 to 121. Article 122 (k) Article 123 (l) Article 124 (m) Article 125, point (n) Article 126 (o) § ( 1) to (3) and ( 5), (p) to (127) Paragraph 5 (r) of Article 128-133. It may only benefit the worker from the provisions of paragraph 1. That's Mt. 165. The following paragraph 3 is added: (3) Article 94 § 3 shall be applied by an hourly worker in accordance with Article 156. A different agreement within the meaning of paragraph 1 (b) may be concluded only under a collective agreement. 10. Mt. 298. Paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: The Government is authorised to lay down rules on the continuation of the temporary agency activity, the minimum borrowing fee to be paid to the lender for the loan loan, the conditions and detailed rules for the registration of the lender, and the conditions imposed on public-use lenders, their services to be provided to the borrowers, and certain conditions for the employment relationship they have established, and provides for the existence of financial collateral. 11. § That's Mt. 109. In paragraph (1) of the first paragraph, the text "250 hours" is replaced by the text "400 hours." Dear Lajos Kósa, Do you remember that passage? Therefore, I repeat to you: 11. Article 109 of the Labour Code. The text in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the four hundred hours. , 12. Section Mt. shall cease to be effective. (a) 98. Paragraph 3 and point (b) 135. Paragraph 3 of this Article. LXXXVI of 2012 on transitional provisions relating to the entry into force of Law I of 2012 on the Code of Labour and amendments to the Law. amendment of the law. 13. § LXXXVI of 2012 on transitional provisions and legislative amendments relating to the entry into force of Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour. The first part of Act No 19/D is the following: Added: Act on certain aspects of the organisation of working time of Mt. [[hereinafter referred to as "the Modv3.]] established (a) 94. § 3 paragraph 98. § 2 paragraph 99. § 5 of the Modtv3. (b) 94. Paragraph 3 may be applied in accordance with the rules of the collective agreement in respect of the current working time frame or accounting period, notwithstanding point (a). I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You also refer to the final provisions in the law, according to which the law will enter into force on 1 January 2019, from which you can work 400 hours in overtime instead of 250 hours, and also determine, in accordance with the above, that 36 months are not available for accounting in that year. In the general explanation, you explain why all this is necessary. The 2012 Labour Code Act entered into force on 1 July 2012 with the aim of establishing a new labour law system in line with market economy conditions. Well, my dear Member, this is your new labour law system. When workers were banned and substantially restricted by their interests, they took away and modified the right to strike and adopted the shameful law that you call the Labour Code. Instead of noticing how much damage this has caused and bringing here a work law that can be produced by consensus, workers will be burdened with additional burdens instead. They are also talking about the legislative intention to play an important role in collective agreements, the central regulatory factors of the labour market, by reducing public intervention and increasing the role of contractual regulation. Mr President, may I ask you to explain to me what is the treaty in which workers would be willing to agree? I think you may have heard those words, those opinions, and perhaps you can read in the comments what the workers are proposing and what they think about what you have put forward here. [[23.10]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's Mt. The experience gained since its entry into force shows that the legislator's intention has only been partially met. Hm! The role of collective agreements in shaping the domestic labour market remains relatively limited. However, the unauthorized nature of the Code and the conversion of obligations to a given workplace and economic activity fall within the interests of the persons involved in the employment relationship, and therefore the agreement of the parties directly concerned is an essential condition for flexible regulation, which is to be encouraged by the amendment of the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then here we can recall the words of your minister abroad, recalling the words of your Prime Minister abroad that they are doing everything they can to ensure that the workforce is available. That's the way it is, and that's what you're going to say, otherwise, it's a contractual relationship. This is a slave law in which they want to force people by law to do work that they no longer have the power or the will to do. Therefore, this law is withdrawn as quickly as possible, and the workers do not need it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mrs Márta Demeter, I repeat, and with all due respect, do not deviate from the subject unnecessarily, do not repeat the earlier speech of her own or another fellow Member, and I do not have to call for it. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-268	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if I'm the one you're talking to in this case, because Varju is my fellow Member, because the law... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2018-11-27-269	I gave the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, and I asked her to refrain from repeating, to get to the point. [[László Varju to Marta Demeter: You are the victim. You're the perp.]] I will say this for each speaker. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-27-270	That's very kind of you, Mr. President, thank you very much. The fact is that I understand that the general debates are precisely about the fact that, in addition to discussing a specific bill, we are, of course, looking at the environment, the contexus in which this bill will be implemented, and obviously this concerns a very wide circle, so the current situation of Hungarian society, the situation of the workers, is also absolutely relevant. Here I would like to ask that my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, and even the three pro-governments who are here in this Chamber, take part in the debate, press the button and speak to him, because they have been playing it regularly for many years now that they have not spoken to him in the debate... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2018-11-27-271	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This thought has been said on several occasions, please turn to the bill. [[Noise, interrogations from the opposition benches.]] Next time, I'll take the floor without notice. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't stop us. Tell them to speak up.]]
u2018-11-27-272	I am trying to generate a debate, and I do not want to argue with Mr President for the world, and I would like to discuss it with the present pro-government representatives. The genre is that it is a general debate, so I would like us to be able to discuss this bill, which, by the way, will determine the fate of millions of Hungarian workers. There is a good chance that you will vote for this in Parliament next week, and you think that otherwise you can avoid responsibility. So I would ask you to speak to him now, not when the debate is over, and you will say a closing word by saying that the opposition representatives who were sent to this house by the same Hungarian people, I know that many times I do not like this... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2018-11-27-273	Madam Congresswoman, this has also been said on several occasions, thank you, have a seat. Next up is Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue. [[Márta Demeter: It is therefore impossible to expect a debate in the Hungarian Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Despite my earlier requests, you did not come to the point, you made unnecessary repetitions, and therefore the Parliament Act 46. By exercising my authority under paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this Article, I withdraw the floor from you. You will no longer be able to speak on this item at this sitting. Have a seat. [[Interventions from the opposition benches, including: This will be the method! They're shutting up the congressmen.]] The next speaker is Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2018-11-27-274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I see is that the president, under his own authority, is really not saying that I don't assume that he's been following the agenda without even being here, and he knows for a fact what's been said. I appreciate that, Mr President, and thank you very much for your knowledge. Then I'll pick up where Laszlo Varju left off. The Code of Work, which entered into force in 2012, is closely linked to the amendment. Then let us get to know this Code of Work, as I see that my fellow Members of the Fidesz do not know it, because the amendment of the law repeatedly refers to the provisions of the Code of Work, so let us read a little. Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour. Part one; General provisions; Chapter I; Introduction provisions; Purpose of the law; 1. § This Act lays down basic rules for decent employment in accordance with the principle of freedom of enterprise and employment, having regard to the economic and social interests of the employer and the worker. The first point has already failed, my fellow Members. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The scope of the law. I'm glad you're taking pictures, Mr. Secretary. We could talk. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Sorry, I'm filming.]] Sometimes you should talk to him. That's what you do, and that's why you get paid, not to sit here and take pictures, and you're covered by the Labour Code. 2nd edition of the Official Journal of the European Union § ( 1) The scope of this Act is a) the employer, b) the employee, c) the employer's representative organisation who you have not listened to d) the factory council and e) the trade union. Of course, they didn't listen either. (2) This Act (a) XIV. (b) in Section XVII. Chapter III of the Act applies to the eligibility of the services provided by the school cooperative. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we have talked very little about school cooperatives, and I would like to advise you on what could be said very much in the next period, because we have not talked about it yet, and this amendment is made up of two parts. And Lajos Kósa should know him, because he is very interested in this amendment of the law. [[Noise, interruptions, clearness in opposition benches.]] (2) This Act (a) XIV. This also applies to the borrower, as we pay attention; (b) yeah, I already said this, in section XVII. Chapter III of the Act applies to the eligibility of the services provided by the school cooperative. , 3. § 1) The provisions of this Act shall be applied in the light of the rules of private international law. (2) This law shall apply unless otherwise specified, if the worker normally does the work in Hungary. We are talking about work in Hungary. .3 This Act is part of Article XIX of the Act. 1 and XX If the employer has a registered office or an independent establishment in Hungary, it shall apply. 4. § The provisions of this Act relating to a young worker shall apply mutatis mutandis to the employment of a person under the age of 18. I think it would be nice if Lajos Kósa listened, because I think he doesn't know this law, the Code of Work properly. Part 3: Principles of interpretation; 5. § 1) The provisions of this Act shall be interpreted in accordance with the legal order of Hungary and the European Union. (2) The declaration of waiver or waiver of the right shall not be construed as extending. 4. General requirements of conduct; 6. § ( 1) In the performance of a contract of employment, unless a law provides for a different requirement to be applied as is normally expected in a given situation. No one can rely on his reprehensible conduct to gain benefits. [[23.20]] The other party's reprehensible conduct can also be relied on by the person who acted reprehensiblely. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Point 2. In exercising the rights and fulfilling the obligations, the principles of good faith and integrity must be followed, and they must cooperate, and they must not behave in breach of the law and legitimate interest of the other Party. There are some interesting things, and I think it's good that we really read it, because we realize that this amendment of the law is radically contrary to the labour code, which you basically adopted and entered into force in 2012. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The requirement of good faith and decency is also violated by a person whose law is contrary to his previous conduct in which the other party could have had reason to trust. There are beautiful sentences in the labor code, beautiful sentences! Part four, which means it's only the third, so let's not miss a single point. The employer is obliged to take the interests of the worker into account on the basis of reasonable consideration. A unilateral determination of the method of performance should not cause a disproportionate injury to the worker. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Point 4. The persons covered by this Act shall inform each other of any facts, data, circumstances or changes thereto which are relevant for the establishment of an employment relationship and for the exercise of the rights provided for in this Act and for the fulfilment of obligations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 7. § ( 1), No abuse of the right. I would like to repeat this once again: there is no abuse of rights. In particular, the abuse of rights for the purposes of this Act is aimed at, or leads to, damage to, restricting, harassing or suppressing the legitimate interests of others. Mr President, I think that you are also applying here today that you want to restrict our expression of opinion to us, as well as to the Member of Parliament... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] It is forbidden to abuse the right. I would like to repeat this once again: there is no abuse of rights. In particular, the abuse of rights for the purposes of this Act is aimed at, or leads to, damage to, restricting, harassing or suppressing the legitimate interests of others. Mr President, I think that he is also applying here that he wants to restrict our expression of opinion to us, as well as to the Member of Parliament... (The President is turning off the Member's microphone. )
u2018-11-27-275	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You can't criticize the chairman of the meeting, so I'm gonna take the floor from you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Mr President, let me do this. That's my right to be a Member of Parliament. If you can judge me, I can judge you.]] I'm cutting you off. You will no longer be able to speak on this item at this sitting. Thank you. Have a seat. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is this how you will ban everyone from ending the debate?]] The next speaker was Mr Csárdi. He's not in the room. Dear Parliament, Once again, during the debate, further or repeated speeches will be authorised by the chair of the meeting. I will not allow you to speak again at this item on the agenda. They have a two-minute window. First to report to Bence Tordai, not in the room. Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, the right-wing congresswoman, has two minutes to speak.
u2018-11-27-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. While my fellow Members said their views, they read it to make it clear to everyone what this bill is about, I was looking at the face of my fellow Member Kósa. He listens to the debate with an unshakeable face, or his thoughts wander. I wonder what they're up against. There's a single - parent mosaic family, and Mom's raising her baby by herself. Let's just say we don't call it a family. They're not in the same household yet. And that single-parent mom, let's say, she's a clerk here in Parliament. That law applies to him, too. He can be ordered overtime, too. You can order it to the mothers working at the factory. It can be ordered to mothers or fathers working in agriculture. Who will take care of the children? Is that what my colleague Kósa is thinking about? Isn't the interest of children in the year of families important? I'm so sorry. He's sitting there listening to it right now. His conscience doesn't knock. He's knocking. When? For how long? I'd expect an answer. Why can't you answer that? Is that what you intend to do? This? For how long? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-27-277	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will give the floor to independent Congresswoman Bernadett Wind for two minutes.
u2018-11-27-278	Mr President, I was doing a regular comment, and you told me you weren't gonna give me the floor. Don't even think about it, Mr. President. You say it's not a dictatorship, it's a free... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2018-11-27-279	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Mr. President, We have thoughts!]] You're criticizing the president of the meeting, so I'm cutting you off. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But why cancel? Is it because you're the conductor?]] You will no longer be able to speak on this item at this sitting. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Mr. President! You gotta be kidding me.]] The next two-minute comment is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You put the debate up for the night! Then put the debate in daylight...!]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor in two minutes. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, Mr. President. You can get me out of here for four years, and I'm gonna tell you my thoughts, because you're not gonna keep my mouth shut, Mr. President.]]
u2018-11-27-280	Mr President, Dear House, As a token of my respect for the memories of Hungarian democracy, with this two-minute comment, with your permission, I would not live. Thank you.
u2018-11-27-281	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since only repeated speakers have spoken, the two-minute Congressman Bence of Torda is not in the Chamber, Congressman Csárdi is not in the Chamber, so I will conclude the debate, and I will ask... [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes. Continued intervention from opposition parties. Attila Mesterházy: I wanted to bring a new element of debate into the conversation! Dr. Wind Bernadett: New perspective! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. Continued intervention from opposition parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: This will end badly! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: From where? Attila Mesterházy: How to withdraw the word? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What do you think? What do you mean? Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm sorry, I pressed a button.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. I give the floor to Lajos Kosa. [[Attila Mesterházy: He doesn't even know what I want to talk about!]] After the general debate is closed. [[Attila Mesterházy: But for what?]]
u2018-11-27-282	Mr. President. Dear House, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I did a regular speech! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't speak, Lajos. Don't say anything. Dr. László Varga: At least you have enough solidarity not to speak! It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Hungarian Parliament has a house rule that clearly provides for how general debates should be held in the Hungarian Parliament on legislative proposals [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But I did make a normal speech! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Whom do you want to lecture, Louis? Who are you trying to lecture? You're kidding.]] That's what I'm gonna do. In the Hungarian Parliament, it is also customary for the author to state his position and arguments in his presentation, and then at the end of the debate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What custom, Lajos? Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] say a closing because it allows Members of Parliament to take part in the debate. [[Continued intervention from opposition parties. Dr. László Varga: It's a shame what you've done, Louis, that's what you should be dealing with! Who do you think you are? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What do you think?]] Of course, I can answer all of these questions, and I will do so in accordance with the rules of Parliament's debate. [[Attila Mesterházy: The rules of what debate? Dr. Agnes Vadai: I pressed a button! Continued intervention from opposition parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We will initiate the withdrawal of Lajos Kósa's salary!]] Of course, I am saddened to say that, unlike the customs of the Hungarian Parliament, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] not only arguments but also harsh personalities were raised in the debate. To the point that some socialist representatives have threatened me in my own person. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shut your mouth and sit down. Dr. László Varga: Shame on you! You haven't spoken in five hours!]] I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament to the fact that I will turn to the House Committee to ensure that this physical threat does not get bitten by Parliament, that the debate in the Hungarian Parliament is about proposals, that arguments must be on the ground [[Attila Mesterházy: Then why didn't you argue?]] and not the physical threat, such as the mention of a heart-slap and a nail bar by my socialist fellow Members. [[Attila Mesterházy: Board! Board!]] The fact is, I am saddened to conclude that the vast majority of opposition's arguments are simply such an immeasurable factual error that I now speak politely, which is not much to argue with, because it is pointless. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Mr President! It violates the dignity of this House!]] I just want to record it. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] In Hungary, of course, before this and after the adoption of my proposal, the working day will be 8 hours and the working week will be 5 days. My proposal doesn't change that. [[23.30]] The Hungarian working order is that if a person takes up a job, he is entitled to a salary according to the contract he signed. So all the suggestions that many people put it out to say that workers don't get paid are just capitulate. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] , misunderstandings, untruths; of course, even after my proposal has been amended, everyone gets their monthly wages. So when they said they weren't gonna get their wages, that's not true, that's a serious distortion, a lie, a fake. As my amendment, of course, does not affect the general principle of the Labour Code, that even if overwork is ordered, it should not exceed 48 hours of weekly work hours. That's the way it is, that's the way it is before, that's how it's gonna be. My fellow Members are completely conscious about two things, or they do not know, and they are talking nonsense. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Defense Committee must be convened.]] Overwork and extra work can be ordered in Hungary in two ways: on the one hand there is extraordinary work; on the other hand, the rules on extraordinary work are not affected by my proposal. Extraordinary work is work which, due to unforeseen circumstances, must otherwise be duly supported by the employer by the employer, but it must otherwise be paid to the worker at the end of the month in accordance with the relevant rules. It's extraordinary work. By the way, I would add that, in the context of extraordinary work, especially if it falls on the day of rest or on the day of public holidays, it is significantly higher than the time-proportional part of the salary paid in normal employment. It's extraordinary work. It doesn't affect my proposal, it has nothing to do with my proposal, so any suggestion that would consciously present premeditated overwork in the framework of extraordinary work is a lie, a mistake, an untruth. As the opposition completely forgets about it [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] that if it was planned, because that's what my proposal is about, the premeditated and announced, the law is now known, at least I know that the text of the opposition has been read, or at least you've heard it once. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You still don't know him! Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] In order to order pre-planned overwork, the exact time for overwork should be given on the day off. So the idea that there would otherwise be a change in the basic framework for employment, the 8 hours, the 40 hours per week, is not true. What does this look like in real life that you talk about so much, but you can see that you have no idea how this works? If it's four days [[Dr. Agnes Vadai to the president. How's that, Mr. President? You've overstepped your bounds!]] For example, two hours of overtime a day is planned by the employer, which means that after four days an extra day of rest is due to the employee. This is why there is a sector where workers have contributed to this in a working order when, for example, five weeks, four days a week [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Eight!]] If two hours of overtime are imposed daily, the worker receives the sixth week as a whole as a holiday, does not have to go to work for a week, and, I add, receives the same wage. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Will It Be Long?!]] All along, the opposition talks about my proposal as, if pre-planned and announced, the time to be announced to the employee in advance for six months is always mandatory on the day off in the case of pre-planned, ordered work. This is how people work, otherwise it is not an unpopular form of employment, and, of course, the number of rest days and holidays is not reduced by anything. So those of you who claimed that my proposal was modifying this weren't telling the truth. And all this time, the opposition has been talking about this proposal, as if premeditated and announced overwork, it would be about extra employment. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Enough, Louis, you can't convince yourself!]] And it wouldn't touch anything. That's not true, it's a lie! In addition, I would like to say once again that this work schedule does not affect workers' salaries. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] They're gonna get it. That is the case, dear fellow Members. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't get a word! I was doing a normal comment, and I had new perspectives!]] that a significant part of the opposition's comments differ from reality to such a degree that it is not in disputeable, because I have to say that there are certain claims that cannot be dealt with. If the opposition claims that the sky is red, I won't convince them that the sky is blue [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] 'Cause it's just not worth it. Therefore, to present this law as a slave law or to predict the coming of Armageddon [[Antal Csárdi: Sorry, this has already been said in the debate! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And the destruction of families, it's completely disoriented from reality. [[László Varju: Get rid of him!]] It is difficult to argue about the world of work when a Member ex-cathedra declares that there has been no wage increase in the Hungarian labour market in recent years. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: When you don't know him, yes! You haven't worked properly yet, so it's really hard!]] Well, last year alone, the net wage outflow was 13 percent. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Mr President, withdraw the floor from him!]] and for four years now, the net wage outflow is constantly around two figures each year in the Hungarian economy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Whom do you want to convince, Louis? You don't know us!]] If someone, as an opposition representative, says that this is a statistical trick and that there was no net wage increase, then, frankly, this distortion of reality, and when someone is so disoriented from the facts, I will not argue with that because it is completely pointless, I will not convince my fellow Members to see what is happening in Hungarian employment, in the world of work. [[László Varju intervenes.]] that there is a wage increase, that there are sectors for which my proposal may be useful. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: One of them is the pig colony! Pig colony!]] but it won't happen for most sectors. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] it will not happen, as they have rightly said, since the imposition of pre-planned overwork is not necessary, and is not necessary in a number of Hungarian economic companies and sectors. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't bother. It doesn't make any sense.]] I therefore believe that I would like to address a few other points on what has been said in the debate. So it's hard. [[Antal Csárdi: Don't repeat it! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't repeat yourself, Louis! László Varju: Back! Get back!]] to argue that the opposition is constantly insisting on obsessions that have nothing to do with reality. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Why didn't you negotiate with the unions, Mr. Kósa?! Why didn't you check with the union?!]] Of course, this bill will not drive anyone out of the country. [[A statement from the opposition: Come on! No, what?!]] This bill provides an opportunity for mutual agreement [[Antal Csárdi: But that is not what is written in the law!]] employers and workers can work together in such a working order. It is quite typical that there has been no comment, by the way, on how, as I said, workers could be further strengthened in their negotiating position. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] because the opposition seems to have made a nostalgic exception to this, just as there has not been a single statement that my proposal guarantees employees a minimum wage and a minimum wage in certain sectors, such as temporary employment. [[Antal Csárdi: Well, good! It's the least I can do. Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] As the opposition seems to have made a nostalgic exception to this, nor has any statement been expressed that my proposal guarantees employees a minimum wage and minimum wage in certain sectors, such as temporary employment. (Antal Csárdi: Well, good! It's the least I can do. Intercoms from the opposition. ) This is not important to them, although they refer to people, there was no voice about it. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) Mr. President. Dear House, [[László Varju: Now the pillow is gone! They took the word, they took the pillow!]] The question of how many Hungarian citizens have decided on the Hungarian labour market has played a major role in the debate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Mr President, you will tell me the same thing. Intercoms from the opposition.]] Works in the countries of the European Union. Of course, 600 thousand and such numbers do not correspond to reality. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You know it!]] But if we look at the actual situation, we see that today there are roughly 420-430 thousand people working as Hungarian citizens in different countries of the European Union. [[László Varju: Did you add this up?]] In 2004, when we joined the European Union, this figure was 220 thousand. So listen up. 220,000 people chose this form from the change of regime until 2004, then we were not members of the EU, so it was much harder to work in the EU countries anyway, and in the period since then, it has been 14 years, and this figure has increased by 200,000. [[23.40]] In English: the setting that the Fidesz government or any kind of economic policy would accelerate this process here is simply not true. In addition, if you look at the internal structure of this [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Who do you want to convince?]] 110,000 out of 420 thousand are commuters every day. This means that he has not left Hungary. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: There is no family from whom no one has left! Who are you trying to convince?]] This is basically the western edge of the border. He didn't leave the country, he lives here, he lives here with his family, he goes through it every day. [[László Varju: Tell that to my brother and my sister.]] When you think about it, this position is no different than when you come from Cegléd to work in Budapest. [[Antal Csárdi: Except he doesn't pay his taxes here!]] And by the way, a good 40,000 people are weekly commuters, taking advantage of low-cost flights. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Which is already in Debrecen! Defiance.]] which means that he has not left Hungary in the sense that he lives with his family. This is similar to saying something to someone else, like when someone was a weekly commuter from the country's remote region and went to Budapest to work, only this is now happening by plane, not by black train from Matthew Szalka. Therefore, the setting does not correspond to reality, it is not true, it is a lie, what the opposition said about the Hungarians who are otherwise working in the countries of the European Union. [[Constant noise, interruptions.]] The figure that there are 240 thousand people who are not Hungarian citizens and who live permanently in Hungary, including 110-120 thousand people with work permits, further enriches the Hungarian labour market. So the balance that so many people go out and come from other countries is not 420 thousand, because, by definition, 110-120 thousand people have chosen Hungary to work in the various countries of the European Union. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Teach me more, master! Defiance.]] In English: the setting that Hungarian workers leave Hungary with their mass and Hungary does not represent any supply to others is simply not true, it is a lie, the numbers contradict it sharply. I add, and then the reference basis is absolutely doubtful that, by the way, Germany is the country from which the majority of Germans are citizens. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: They're on the run!]] not Germany, but the different countries of the European Union, more than one million Germans work in different countries of the European Union and not Germany. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: He wants to work in Hungary!]] I suppose they weren't refugees from Germany because of the terrible economic prospects, the hopeless salary and the intolerable standard of living that drove them out of their country. The opposition, in some strange way, although I remember them campaigning with the crap that everyone on Mariahilfer could open a café, doesn't realize that when someone makes that decision, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, I have made a normal speech, and I would like to take this opportunity now.]] that he doesn't work in Hungary at one stage of his life, it's not necessarily a problem in the sense that he's trying to do it elsewhere. By the way, the point is that this number should be dynamic in its internal composition, and until this figure reaches about 10 percent of the total Hungarian labour market, I think that it holds a dynamic balance, which can not only be assumed, but it can also be said that at some point in Hungarian economic history the so-called peregrination has been particularly significant, and this is also the tradition of Hungary for centuries. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] This has been left out of Marxism, so that the opposition does not know about this, it is not surprising. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] All in all, I can say that what I have just heard from the opposition's comments is simply not debateable. [[Attila Mesterházy: You are not open to debate!]] It's so far from reality, it's not worth wasting your breath. What should you do by saying to the opposition that if this amendment comes into force, people don't get paid every month? That's obviously not true, it has nothing to do with reality. What should we do with the claim that they thought and read the whole thing so that the 400 hours of scheduled extra work would add to the week's work? No. That'll have to be published on the day off, by the way. There's gonna be an uneven workload, and they didn't talk about it anyway. So the point is that it should be seen that, where appropriate, workers should have some kind of guarantee [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Will there be no after all?]] What protects them from excessive stress, I would add, is that, in principle, no more than 48 hours of work can be done in a week, which is still alive, but could still be guaranteed. The opposition's involvement in this case cannot be interpreted, because the opposition has lied, made personal, and in a completely unacceptable style, how should I put it, which I cannot deal with. We are Members of Parliament to put up with this, as appropriate. It's not easy. [[Antal Csárdi: Poor!]] But I think it's instructive. By the way, my fellow Members of the opposition, until the debate [[Antal Csárdi: Continue.]] I was thinking, I was actually thinking that one eye was crying and the other was laughing. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Do you have feelings, Lajos?]] Because he's crying because I've heard all this crap talk in a long time, and he laughs, because as long as the opposition is like this, two thirds of the Fidesz and the government side are guaranteed. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There will be other worlds!]] And now they've given us a full slice of why there really is two-thirds support for the ruling parties and a fraction of support for the opposition. But I respect, not the opposition, but the voters behind the opposition, and I think that it is worth discussing, consulting with them, either with sectoral trade unions or with workers' organisations. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about the unions? Why didn't Mr. Kósa negotiate with the union?]] and try to come up with a proposal that will help the Hungarian economy by the way. The Hungarian economy is not self-value, the strengthening of the Hungarian economy and the improvement of its competitiveness is extremely important in one respect: it brings Hungarian people to rising income, and the rising income of Hungarian people means a more stable life, a more predictable future, prospects and families. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Answer the question.]] And I want to support that. If the opposition stays out of this, go ahead, I would, in any case, like Parliament to accept this proposal with possible improvements, but with possible improvements. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-283	Thank you very much, Lajos Kósa. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély came forward on a case-by-case basis. But before I give you the floor, I'd like to say that you can't comment on the previous agenda on a case-by-case basis. I said, 10. § on the agenda or on the item discussed, any Member may speak for a one-minute period, but since I have closed the previous agenda, another subject must be presented in order of business. I'm listening, Congresswoman, with all due respect.
u2018-11-27-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to initiate an immediate recess, and I would like to request that the House Committee be convened immediately, because Mr President has, according to the house rules, exceeded his authority. You are subject to house rules, and you have repeatedly exceeded your authority, so take immediate action, Mr. President. Thank you. [[László Varju: That's right!]]
u2018-11-27-285	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since a motion has been made to convene the House Committee, I would like to announce that I will inform the Speaker of Parliament. Article 13 of the Parliamentary Act. In accordance with Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President will notify the group leaders in writing of the date and location of the House Committee. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, came forward on a case-by-case basis.
u2018-11-27-286	Mr President, What I want to say to the record is that you didn't listen to what I wanted to talk about. So the paragraphs you read that if someone didn't agree to the debate, you couldn't speak to him, in my case you couldn't judge that because I couldn't start what I wanted. By the way, I wanted to talk to you about accidents at work, caused by overload. That's what I'd like to say to the record. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-287	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You can turn to the order committee about my decision. Congressman Antal Csárdi applied in order of business.
u2018-11-27-288	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to ask which paragraph of the House Rule or Parliamentary Act allows you to judge in different ways the same activities of pro-government and opposition representatives. [[23.50]] Allow me to give you some examples. Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, has photographed us here in the middle of the House. I remember several times when the head of the committee ordered the photographer's representative to be remanded, so I ask what is the difference in judgment, and which regulations allow the representatives of the government to do so, and the opposition representatives do not. My other question concerns the same thing, my fellow Member Kósa repeated himself several times, and while Vice-President Márta Demeter took the floor, he did not take the floor away from Lajos Kósa. I see a very serious bias in this. Thank you.
u2018-11-27-289	Thank you very much. Please contact the rendezvous committee if you find my sitting offensive. Congresswoman Márta Demeter applied in order of business.
u2018-11-27-290	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask what measures you wish to propose to the President of the Parliament and to take in order not to abuse the house rules, nor to sabotage the work of legally elected Members, nor to sabotage the work of the Members who have been legally elected, and, unfortunately, because it looks very different, we have seen it earlier in relation to fines and other measures, in which you will personally propose to the President of the Parliament to take action and restore the authority of the Parliament.
u2018-11-27-291	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I repeat, during the debate, further or repeated speeches will be authorised by the chair of the meeting. If you object to this, refer to the order of business committee. Ms Agnes Vadai, DK.
u2018-11-27-292	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on the previous bill, I couldn't repeat myself, because even though I pressed a button, I didn't get a word at all, so I couldn't really judge what I was up to. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr President, not the order of business committee...
u2018-11-27-293	This debate, my dear Member, is closed, the previous agenda. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Do not withdraw from me, because I will speak without it!]] I'm listening to your suggestion.
u2018-11-27-294	... you will immediately take action here and suspend the sitting until we have clarified in Parliament what kind of license the MPs and opposition representatives are entitled to in Parliament. Because in my case, it was clear that I, as an opposition representative who applied for a normal speech, had fewer rights than pro-government representatives. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask for your immediate action. Don't delegate the task to the order committee, don't write a letter to László Kövér, but be brave to suspend the sitting day here and now until this issue is resolved either in the order committee or in the House Committee. Thank you.
u2018-11-27-295	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On the one hand, Ms Ágnes Vadi came forward after the end of the debate. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No, no! Intercoms from the opposition benches: We'll take a look.]] The next order of business is Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2018-11-27-296	Mr President, I strongly believe you've crossed another red line here. Since I've been in Parliament, there hasn't been a case like this where opposition representatives have been silenced. He withdrew the floor from Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Márta Demeter and me, and then excluded us from the debate, gave Attila Mesterházy no opportunity to speak, and refused to allow Ágnes Vadai to speak. This is what I have seen, but surely the record and video recordings will bear witness to my words, and we will find out how many opposition representatives have been violated here tonight in their democratic fundamental rights. Mr President, Please don't refer to the house rules, please don't quote that you have the right to do so, because you have no right to silence us here one by one, for reasons said. So I ask you to suspend this House's session, and you cannot go on; you have crossed a red line, please note this. You may be sitting on the bench right now, and we're down here, but the house rules, I think you need to defend democracy. From now on, I ask that you stop this meeting, suspend it, convene the House Committee. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] wake up the honourable Members who need it, and we need to discuss this case, which has happened here, because it is a brutal mockery of our democratic fundamental rights.
u2018-11-27-297	Madam Congresswoman, I rang the bell because you only have a minute to make a point of order, on the one hand. On the other hand, I am not suspending the meeting, and if you have a complaint, you should contact the committee or the House Committee. The next order of business is Mr László Varju, DK.
u2018-11-27-298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that you know precisely that you have made a mistake, not a small one, but a great one, and the consequence of that is that you have prevented Members from making an important law affecting millions of workers to express their views in this. I'm one of them myself. Now you're about to feel like the workers you're forcing to work overtime, by the way. This may be a bad feeling for you, but it is your job to ensure that the sitting is properly conducted, to act in accordance with the house rules, and to ensure that we have the right to exercise our rights as representatives. You've prevented that. You can correct this now by admitting your mistake, suspending this session immediately, we will not continue, we will not continue this attitude, because we guarantee that you will not do the same for the next agenda. In the same way, Lajos Kósa is the author, and they are also trying to use a shameful law. [[Interventions from opposition benches: That's right! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So suspend him and stop, please.
u2018-11-27-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. I acted by the rules of the house. The next order of business is Congressman Bence Tordai.
u2018-11-27-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make the suggestion that, after it has been proven here that you are, unfortunately, rather biased in leading the meeting and have made several mistakes in conducting it, in addition to my personal respect, I would suggest that someone else, another Vice-President of the House, take over the session; and if the terms of this were not provided, I would also ask you to suspend the sitting of the Parliament. I would also like to point out, for the record, that I also had a signal that I would have spoken in the previous debate, which also did not take place. [[Lajos Kósa: He wasn't here!]] But I also had a two-minute window, Congressman Kósa, so I would have said that anyway, and for example, I would have looked at why the BMW plant would receive HUF 135 billion of funding in the form of infrastructure improvements after receiving HUF 12.3 billion in direct support. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-301	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I can tell you the same thing, I've done it by the house rules, and if you think I haven't, you're gonna have to turn to the order committee that's gonna look into it. There is indeed television footage, and it can be seen precisely that you were not in the room when you had the opportunity to say it for two minutes. [[Bence of Turdai: That was the normal speech.]] Honourable Parliament! We'll get back to work. It follows from the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of major national importance. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs Lajos Kósa and Gábor Riz T/3629. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[László Varju: Mr President, you did this! You're the culprit!]] First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-11-27-302	Mr. President. Dear House, In 2006, Parliament adopted a law on the implementation and acceleration of investments of major importance for the national economy. I have tabled an amendment to this law. I'll tell you very briefly. [[0.00]] Today, the rule for these investments is that they have the land on which the investment is intended to be carried out, but the building permit can only be issued if the land is not only created with a permanent land-making permit, but also the land-book entry is made. The land-book entry is separated from the land-making permit, because the land-book entry requires that all the owners concerned contribute to the whole of the land-making permit. In many cases, it is an experience that owners, especially where there are many undivided joint owners or many owners, find some of the owners extremely difficult to find, and this current rule of procedure simply prolongs the starting point for investment. Therefore, I propose that, as a general rule, in the case of investments that are considered to be priority for this national economy, the permanent permit for the development of land should allow the authorisation procedure to start. The building of the plot with the entry in the land register should be subject to the permit for entry into service. Thus, the two processes are compatible, because by the time the land register is registered, because all the stakeholders have been found, they have agreed with the owners, in fact the design is at least over by then, but often the investment is nearing completion. But here, the investor must know that he will receive the permit to use only if the final land design permit is entered in the land register. This is an acceleration step, making two relatively long processes possible in parallel. I am asking for the support of this House.
u2018-11-27-303	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kósa. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak, Mr Orbán Balázs, Secretary of State. Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-27-304	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'll be very brief. The bill provides for the possibility of granting a building permit to land with a permanent land conversion permit, but not transferred to the real estate register as such, by allowing it to take place at the latest until the permit for entry into service is issued, and this is possible in the context of investments of major importance for the national economy. We believe that this is an acceleration step, which also contains guarantees, so it is not suitable for abuse. However, it will help to keep these investments going and to be implemented as soon as possible. The title of the Act also refers to investments of major importance for the national economy. These investments are in the interests of the country and therefore the government agrees with the provisions of the bill and proposes that the House accept this. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-11-27-305	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-27-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The 2006 LIII. Law was designed to ensure that projects financed by EU support are implemented in a faster, simpler and more uniform procedural order, using the resources available as efficiently as possible. The law came into force ten years ago, in March 2006. It is important to note that this rapid and effective assessment of priority investments is also necessary to ensure that the European Union's support from the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds can be drawn in full so that the society and economy of our country can benefit as much as possible from accession. In addition to investments financed by European Union and Hungarian central budgetary resources, the law also set out the objective of facilitating more effective authorisation for investments financed from private sources. Since the entry into force of the law ten years ago, practice has proved that this regulation was necessary and has fulfilled the expectations and expectations attached to it. Since then, it has been subject to several amendments, its scope has been extended and has now become an integral part of the construction regulations. After all, the construction works carried out as a result of the construction activity are important elements of national property, which are capable of launching significant improvements beyond their technical and economic value. In order to give an example, the tourism development of Lake Fertő, one of Hungary's largest tourist investments, has recently been given the top status in the constituency of Sopron. In order to increase the speedy and effective call for support referred to as the objective, this amendment proposes that, from a national point of view, the rules relating to the implementation of investments of major importance be supplemented in such a way as to facilitate the provision of building permit applications as soon as possible and the acquisition of building permits, thereby contributing to faster implementation. The delay in obtaining a construction permit can cause very serious damage in major cases and it is therefore appropriate to supplement the current legislation in order to avoid this. Dear fellow Members, I think that this bill serves the purpose of promoting the development of an appropriate regulatory environment for specific needs backed up by major investments in the national economy, and therefore the Fidesz fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-27-307	Thank you, Congressman Attila Barcza. I note that the other keynote speakers are not in the room, so we have come to the end of the speaker's speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. I don't see any contact. I would like to ask the author if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. You have the floor, Congressman Lajos Kósa.
u2018-11-27-308	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for your support, thank you for the debate, and I hope that this House will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-309	Dear Parliament, After the general debate is closed, we have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the status of defence employees will follow until closure. Government referral T/3621. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-27-310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It seems to me that only the governing parties are represented in the Parliament. Looking into the pseudonym of the previous agenda, a public opinion poll was published today, which made it clear that the Hungarian people refused to cooperate and refused to support the Hungarian opposition. They are obviously very upset about this, because these results are much worse than what they had otherwise achieved in the elections in April 2018, and so they thought that I took this out of the previous agenda, that with hysteria, gang banging, lying, obstruction, stone-hard obstruction, they could take revenge on the Hungarian people and here in Parliament on the ruling parties. But I can see that the Hungarian opposition didn't succeed either. Well, Honourable Parliament, the bill before us is a new category, a new category of employment, a bill on the status of defence employees. Allow me to quote István Tisza before I go to the bill in particular:. We are thrown into the pan of the balance sheet of world history, and it depends on our own weight on what result this pan will produce. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The present proposal, together with the proposal that has been discussed recently, will issue the whole of what is necessary for the non-military technical development of defence. [[0.10]] The hybrid or proxy war is mentioned in the context of a new type of armed conflict in the eastern neighbourhood of Hungary after 2011. The events of the last few days speak for themselves, I might say, if my fellow Members read the news, it is not really necessary to keep this exposé. The last few days are just proof to the government that the end of international world peace, who doesn't wake up, is not a responsible leader, is not able to defend his country. Clausewitz put it this way: make immediate use of unforeseen opportunities and respond to unforeseen difficulties. The Hungarian government is committed to building and maintaining strong defence. Part of this, the main and most decisive part of this is the development of the new structure of the defence recently discussed, but also the settlement of the situation and status of the entire, civilian and military personnel. As of 1 January 2019, the Government intends to introduce a new status in the context of our other law with the name of a defence employee. He's going to be a defense employee for the civil servant, or civilian, of the defense organization. This will make a substantial change in the weekdays of civil servants in the defence sector only to a lesser extent, such as the fact that they will have to participate in annual military trainings in their field, but not specifically in military training. Defence staff are employees who work on a daily basis within the framework of defence organisations and therefore know its structure, operation and organisational characteristics. Since they are moving together, but we can also say that they have moved with the military, the civil servant law has already known different rules for civil servants in the military, but now there will be a kind of profile cleaning, which will also help the military civilians and soldiers to cooperate even more closely, to standardize the status of civil servants in different divisions, and ultimately to increase the operativity of the military. At the same time, we will compensate for the additional obligations of the defence employee in relation to the civil servants with additional benefits. Undoubtedly, the civil servants of defence employees are the Hungarian Defence Forces, but in many cases they must adapt to the organizational order and discipline prevailing in the Hungarian Defence Office, both in the light of their duties and their conduct. In view of this, there will also be a need for some additional benefits and some restrictions, some obligations that serve the interests of the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people, as well as the safe provision of tasks by the Hungarian Defence Forces. It is therefore appropriate to introduce rules for defence staff that are close to, or even accessible to, soldiers in a number of places in the case of additional benefits. Under a special legal order, the defence staff shall not be entitled to waive their legal status. However, this is not from the devil in the defence sector, the civil servants of the military are currently under so-called orders, that is to say, they cannot be called in as soldiers in the state of war because they are needed there and then, in that administrative unit, in that civilian position. The rapporteur also intends to strengthen the special legal order of the defence sector, as well as its professional and civil security. Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to civil servants, the more favourable rules for defence workers are now planned several times as follows. In order to fulfil each job, a tender does not need to be drawn up when a legal relationship is established, this proposal should be left to the decision of the employer exercising the powers of the employer. Under the proposal, it will be faster and simpler to establish a defence employee status. In the case of defence staff, the proposal refers to certain entitlements, discounts and conditions of rights, instead of collective agreements, to a ministerial level, and thus to a uniform regime for all defence organisations, given the uniform nature of the status of defence staff. In respect of basic salary, a salary table, similar to that for civil servants and providing top-up rules, is also established here for defence workers, which is consistent with sectoral specificities. The defence salary supplement is intended to increase the civil servant status from the point of view of the extra obligation assumed, and to provide for a higher amount of civil protection salary for the defence staff. At severance pay: at present, the amount of severance pay for civil servants reaches a maximum of 20 years. That's an eight-month absence fee. In line with the rules on professional and contract soldiers, this is complemented by a severance pay after 25 and 30 years, 9 and 10 months' absence fees for the new legislative proposal. At Jubilee Rewards: At present, civil servants have no Jubilee Rewards over the age of 30, but according to the Defense Staff Regulations, after 35 and 40 years, there will be a new Reward every five years at a rate of 7 months. This is fully equivalent to the rules on professional and contractual stocks. Well, Honourable Parliament, once again, it is the duty of the state to look after its citizens, to say, that is a principle. At the same time, it is the duty of all employers, the state, in particular, to provide for their employees. The state also has a duty to ensure the protection of the country, the security of its citizens. The present proposal, together with the proposal that has been discussed recently, will issue the whole of what is necessary for the non-war-technical development of defence. So once again, I would like to quote István Tisza:. We have been thrown into the pan of the world's history, and it depends on our own weight on what results this pan will produce. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The events of the last few days fully justify the government, the government's belief that there is no strong country without a strong army, and that the strong army must not only find its technical and personnel capability, we must employ not only soldiers, well-trained, sound soldiers, not only modern, modern military equipment, but also the legal environment in which we can build this new type of army, and in which we can build the full defence. That is why I ask my honourable fellow Members, at least who are present here, to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-311	Thank you very much, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-27-312	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The idea of removing from the general rules of civil service the special employment sectors for which the special rules really break the general law on the status of civil servants is, I think, entirely acceptable and eligible. This law is like this, but I would add that it also includes the fact that there may still be a number of sectors that may require reflection to be taken out of the general rules or not. The name of the defence employee, or the regulation of defence employees with a special legal status, will take account of the specialities that have been considered in this proposal. So I really don't want to get involved in the little details right now, because we're going to debate this in front of the Defence and Police Committee, so I'm going to have the opportunity to explain my position in the detailed debate. [[0.20]] I would just like to say here that what is also very important in the proposal is, in fact, not directly, but implicit, but it can be read from the legislation that this status as a defence employee creates special expectations for those who undertake it. And if you want to be competitive with the other employment branches or the Kjt. In the case of employees under the age of 18, the status of defence must be represented in the wage. In English, there are a lot of obligations for defence employees, which should be taken seriously, because there may be extraordinary legal orders, there may be other charges. To say the last thing, the workload of defense personnel, due to the specific working order of the defence, can easily be uneven. Today, Parliament adopted the regulation which is the Hst. And the Hjt. extended an optional redemption of money or leisure time in the case of overtime paid to staff members under the Staff Regulations. If we do not want to repeat the need to impose such temporary arrangements, then this should be clarified in wages. By the way, I have to say, Mr. Secretary, you can count on the Defense Committee. So I think that in the budgetary debate, if we are doing this now, we will write it down, then let us not forget that we should also give the civil servants of defence the one that can make this job competitive, otherwise they should be respected for their work in the service of the country's defence. So I am in favour of this, and the faction is in favour. Let us not forget that this is the case in the budgetary debate. And if we support it now, it will also have to be supported. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-27-313	Thank you, Congressman, President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The lead speakers of the political groups are not in the room, so we have reached the end of the speech. I don't see any other commenters. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-11-27-314	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, He made a very important comment, because he was talking about the point. We would not only want to change a legal environment, but we would like to see this legislation on defence employees, of course, with the proposal for a decision allowing 37 650 people to defend themselves, changes in legislation on recruitment, the Zrínyi 2026 defence and military development programme, or I could say the over-service voted this morning, over-work 2022...
u2018-11-27-315	Mr. Secretary, you can't hear his voice. Either you put on another microphone or your card's not in there.
u2018-11-27-316	The card's in there. There's more microphones here. I'm gonna go check on another one. [[He replaced his microphone with his own.]] Then it's better this way. Thank you very much. Excuse me, the microphones were stacked side by side. So, until 31 December 2022, the amendment of the rule on over-service, over-work, which has just been voted on today, goes both in the direction of sufficient numbers of people in the field of defence, both in peacetime and in the case of a special legal order. Defence is not only the main depositary of the Hungarian Defence Service, our soldiers, but an administrative organization such as the Ministry of Defence and other institutions must be available. It is as special as the Member said, with tasks, special obligations, special entitlements, which this law, by the way, is about, and this essentially gives out the defence career model that we are talking about all the time. We looked into the money. I am able to inform the Honourable Parliament that the average regular salary of defence staff employed at the Ministry of Defence will rise from HUF 270 719 to HUF 324 650 from 1 January 2019 and will increase by HUF 53 931. With a public burden, the total budgetary impact is HUF 5.4 billion. This money will be made available, and this money is already available in the budget. But, as I said, it is not just basic salary, basic income, but also other mobile wages, jubilee rewards. And I fully agree that if there is a bond, it also requires special privileges for everyone to be able to count on supporting their family, and anyone who enters this system can count on being able to build a career in this system. Thank you very much, I continue to ask you to support this bill, which we have just presented and which you have spoken to as the lead speaker of the Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-27-317	Thank you, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of today's agenda. In the late afternoon, the Member who had applied for a speech after the agenda withdrew his intention to speak. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day closed, good night.
