u2018-06-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, everyone. Dear Parliament, The Fourth Meeting of the Second Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019 follows. The bill is T/503. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/503/7. can be found on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr György Szilágyi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Mr. Messenger!
u2018-06-28-1	Dear Parliament, The 14-hour timeframe available today is divided into 290 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 130 minutes for the KDNP Group, 123 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 90 minutes for the MSZP Group, 71 minutes for the DK Group, 68 minutes for the LMP Group, 58 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 10 minutes for the independent Members.
u2018-06-28-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, and the speeches by the keynote speaker and their representatives took place at the beginning of the general debate yesterday. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the Members who are looking forward to writing. The first among them is Mr. Sándor Hadházy, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If we start to negotiate a budget, it is worth looking behind us at the background of this budget. Unfortunately, by 2010, the country also lost credibility in international financial markets. He has made promises and vows in a number of successive budget periods that he will comply with the 3-percent budget deficit ceiling set by the European Union, but regrettably he has never succeeded. This is, of course, at a very serious cost, because the financial markets are built on trust, and if confidence is reduced, costs are normally increased. As a result, the funds needed to finance Hungarian public finances were only temporarily secured with much higher interest conditions and worse conditions. In 2010, the new right-wing government, led by Fidesz-KDNP, faced these difficulties and took the necessary measures. Thanks to recent years, confidence in the financial markets has returned. This is not better indicated by the IMF's recent declaration that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget are stable and stable. This is extremely important for us, because, on the one hand, we think so, but it is extremely important for us that someone else thinks so and treats Hungarian issues in the light of this. Dear Parliament, T/503 on the Central Budget of Hungary for 2019 Bill No. 1 is a budget for stability, safe growth and further strengthening of the Hungarian economy. Thanks to the successful work of the last eight years, the government can continue to count on favourable public finances and economic basic processes. This is true not only for 2019 but also for the next four years. The detailed general government balance data for the next four years in the draft budget law clearly show that favourable basic public finances are expected. By 2020, the central budget will be increased and by 2021 the tax reduction fund will rise to HUF 570 billion. Looking at the revenue side, we can see that the government expects a strong increase in basic revenues over the next four years. VAT revenues are expected to increase from HUF 3800 billion this year to HUF 4600 billion by 2020 and to HUF 5200 billion by 2022, an increase of 36 percent over four years. We can stop here for a moment, because it has been said on several occasions from the opposition that, of course, VAT revenues are so high, because we have the highest VAT in the world. This is the fundamental issue of a fiscal and economic policy philosophy, since the Fidesz government wants to place central budget revenues primarily for consumption; production, which is the engine of economic growth, and, if possible, to reduce the burden on the economy. It is interesting to note, however, what we heard yesterday from the President of the State Audit Office, László Domokos, who discussed in his speech and in his presentation the results of several reductions in VAT rates that have been carried out in recent years. It can be seen that although the government intended primarily to put the population in a more favourable position, especially in terms of food, this decrease in VAT appeared for a while in consumer prices and then crawled back to the original standard. It also shows that the VAT reduction should be considered very carefully and modeled to achieve the desired effect. However, according to analysts, this VAT has not been lost, and it has not been struck by traders, but by producers, which, of course, has a positive impact, but the budgetary intention was to achieve a reduction in consumer prices in the first place. The income increases from HUF 2100 billion to HUF 3000 billion in four years. In 2020, nearly HUF 2000 billion of revenue is expected from EU programmes. After some decline in the future, this is a very serious level. [[8.10]] On this basis, the central budget's cash-flow balance will be HUF 111 billion by 2020 after the planned deficit of nearly HUF 1000 billion in 2019. I think this is going to be another historical period, and I trust that this goal will indeed be met. This means that, in two years' time, the budget will be zero, and in 2020 the balance of municipalities will be only deficit. In 2022, the central budget can reach a zero-close level, since it can close with a balance of minus HUF 31 billion. On the expenditure side, positive changes are expected, the National Defence, Tax Reduction and Development Fund, which shows the general movements of the budget and can be used by the government for tax reductions, development or deficit reduction, will rise from HUF 60 billion planned for 2019 to HUF 110 billion in 2020, from HUF 570 billion in 2021 to HUF 500 billion in 2022. According to this, a serious tax reduction programme is expected by 2021. For example, the reduction of the 15 percent key to a single digit would result in a revenue loss of HUF 700 billion, according to the Ministry's previous calculations. This also shows the government's growing scope of manoeuvre. State-related expenditure on wealth will increase from 2020. They will rise by 250 billion in 2020 to nearly 600 billion forints. In 2021 it was nearly HUF 900 billion and in 2022 it was over HUF 1000 billion. This is linked to infrastructure investments and developments that contribute to making the country's economy even stronger, more stable and more competitive over the next decade, continuously and substantially improving the quality of life and safety of Hungarian people. In next year's budget, the government has planned a larger reserve to address any economic difficulties. He raises the reserve without taking funds from any area. In 2019, there will be more money for education, culture, defence, law enforcement, as well as a significant increase in resources for health care. Next year, pensions will increase to the level of inflation planned and tax reductions will continue. The rate of the social contribution tax, which was 27 per cent five years ago, will be reduced by another 2 per cent to 17.5 per cent next year, i.e. from 27 per cent to 17.5 per cent. Depending on economic growth, there may be additional tax reductions in the coming years. According to the government, in four years, the social contribution tax rate could be 11.5 percent. Family tax relief continues to increase, reaching HUF 40,000 per month for two children. This is nearly half a million forints a year. Pensioners should only be paid personal income tax in the case of employment. On the other hand, the public health tax on foods and drinks presenting a health risk increases on average by 20 percent, but this increases not from a budgetary point of view, but from a health policy perspective. The available amount of cafeteria is not reduced. When it was introduced, the aim was to allow workers to receive part of their income under favourable conditions, but today the conditions for taxation have become significantly more favourable, and the government therefore proposes that employers give the resources released in wage increases as a result of tax reductions and economic growth. In the cafeteria, the SZÉP card remains in order to strengthen domestic consumption and tourism. Next year's tax laws serve tax reduction, tax simplification and take into account social policy aspects such as public health. The possibility of further tax reductions is also left open for the future in the light of economic performance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-4	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2018-06-28-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Hadházy spoke about economic stability in his previous speech. We are witnessing this economic stability when we are talking about hundreds of thousands of young people travelling abroad or when we are thinking about the euro exchange rate at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the system of national cooperation, we can already see the practice that the government will submit the draft budget law to this House significantly earlier than the date laid down by law, 31 October preceding the year. Work is rarely good at saying - unfortunately, this is also true of the 2019 Budget Law proposal. The wallets and their related resorts have changed significantly, which has significantly changed the structure of the budget of previous years. However, the government has quickly put together a draft budget, which, based on its review, clearly shows that it is consistent in one thing in a disproportionate increase in expenditure on the state apparatus. We have seen for years that the proportion of taxforints spent by the state on its own is increasing significantly compared to the resources spent on other public tasks. This trend is controversial because the government is talking about cutting red tape and cutting down the state. In previous years, the number of background institutions has been drastically reduced, however, the operation has not become cheaper, and, as the current draft shows, the state intends to operate its apparatus again more expensively than in the previous year. However, it is a sad consequence of this hypocritical spectacle governance that the tasks of the removed background institutions are unclaimed in the bureaucracy mazes, and the time for handling individual cases has increased considerably. The Hungarian people receive much more expensive services from the state. This is clearly a sign of a lack of governorship. I would like to take only one example of an increase in costs independent of a disproportionate task, which shows the government's true intentions and aspirations. The tasks of the State Audit Office are defined by law. In essence, they have not changed or even decreased in number of institutions. Despite this, the Court's budget has almost doubled from 2010 to 2019, from HUF 6.6 billion to HUF 11.1 billion, within which personal expenditures have increased from HUF 5.6 billion to HUF 9.5 billion, with wage taxes and contributions falling during the same period. The increase in the budget is spectacularly seen from 2018 to 2019, around 19 percent. I am forced to assume that this is how the government seeks to repay its faithful vassal services, since there is no other reason for this drastic increase. The budget proposal reflects the government's real aspirations, and it clearly shows the autocratic trends in the country's governance. These autocratic elements are not based on professional considerations, not on real social needs, but on the personal will of one person, the Prime Minister. The structure of sport funding and state propaganda on sport are examples of this phenomenon. At the level of words, the government is concerned about the healthy education and physical development of youth. To this end, he introduced everyday physical education, which was also welcomed and supported by Jobbik Hungary, but did not provide the necessary financial and infrastructure conditions. The narrow HUF 3 billion per year to be spent on gymnasiums and educational schools will sink the concept of active education to the level of written malaste. [[8.20]] The amount allocated for this purpose has not increased in recent years, although the level of budgetary resources allocated to sport as a whole has increased steadily and significantly. Sport plays a very important role in society, both at the level of individuals and at the level of smaller and larger communities. Achieving the various sports goals depends not only on physical performance and investment, but also on people's attitudes, the social acceptance and support of sport. The promotion of sport is therefore an objective that deserves significantly more than the planned budget of HUF 25 million. The impact of sport on general health and well-being is a well-known fact, but Hungary is one of the most obese, passive and prone to disease throughout Europe. Today, we are the fourth in the world and the first in Europe with regard to the obesity of the population. Of course, it takes much more than educational publications and advertising campaigns to spread an active lifestyle at social level, but social awareness-forming is absolutely necessary. That is why I would like to raise the amount that can be used to promote sport, to which we have tabled an amendment. We submit this amendment every year, and every year you will vote against it and not accept it. The social approach is not identifiable by competition sport, which, as in previous years, the government intends to support very generously in 2019 as well. Competition sports today is a privilege of few people, and it could be said that it is a gentleman's hobby, financed by the state from every Hungarian taxpayer's sweaty work. The Prime Minister's hobby is football, whose performance is unfortunately more deplorable every year, and even more shameful, but still a winner of the budget. The Hungarian Football Association's support of 5.2 billion in 2018 will grow to 7.1 billion in 2019. This increase is 36,5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, Only the economic genius of Lőrinc Mészáros was able to produce a spectacular development like this. The preference for competition sport over mass sports is spectacular. I'd just like to show you a few numbers for that. The investment support of the National Olympic Centre is HUF 2 billion operating and HUF 88.7 billion investment expenditure within the Prime Minister's Office's chapter, compared with HUF 0.37 billion operating support for non-Olympian sports. The ratio is 243 times higher for professional sports. Hungaroring Sport Zrt. support for HUF 13.5 billion in the innovation portfolio, as opposed to EUR 0.52 billion in recreational port. The ratio is 26 times higher for professional sports. The development of sport infrastructure for Maccabi games is 0.19 billion operating grants and 14.4 billion investment grants within the EMMI chapter, compared to HUF 0.54 billion for student and student sports. The ratio is 28 times, and these were just a few examples. In the light of the numbers, the situation is absolutely disappointing. Sports funding is increasing throughout the budget, but support for activities and goals affecting Hungarian people in the right direction, affecting their lives and protecting their health, within sports funding, will be dwarfed by visual investment. In professional football, the government continues to uncount the tax forints, despite the fact that the results of the past years, if this word can be applied in the field of football, do not justify any support, and even the decline in social interest is tangible and visible to the naked eye. Another subject that we bring to this House every year and which, for your part, does not support in any year is one of the most pressing problems of our country: population loss. In order to stop population loss, we need to give all the help we can to couples who want to have children. Even couples who want to have children, but for various reasons, they fail to have children naturally. After many years of alternative medical attempts and interventions, these couples have the last hope of the IVF programme, a flutter baby program. In recent years, the government has made several positive changes to the funding of the programme, which should not be taken away, but has not addressed one area, and this is an obstacle for many couples to participate in the programme and to fulfil their main desire to have a child. This is the obstacle, since occasionally a couple has to earn a share of 300-400,000 forints to buy the various medicines and injections outside the state aid. That is why we would like to raise the support of the IVF programme and create a fund that would allow these couples to apply for this part of themselves, and that would also help to have children for as many couples as possible. I am asking you, because this is an important part of the Hungarian reality to support this amendment. In conclusion, the 2019 budget proposal remained faithful to the Fidesz governance of previous years, and communication and visual governance is financed without real performance and results. In the field of sport, the same phenomenon is reflected, where the government spends the money uncounted on the spectacular elements, with the support of activities and goals that influence people's lives in a positive direction dwarf. In order to reduce these imbalances and injustices, I have tabled my proposals to amend the funding of sport and others. I call for these amendments to be considered and supported. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-6	Thank you very much. Mr András Aradszki, representative of the KDNP, is coming. Here.
u2018-06-28-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In the debate on the draft budget for 2019, in order to be able to give an opinion on the content and orientations of the budget, it is worth clarifying what objectives and expectations we need to deliver an opinion on. In order to clarify this, it is essential to have a close past, economic performance between 2010 and 2018 and a brief analysis of the country's budgetary situation. After 2010, Hungary regained its economic and political self-determination. The characteristics of the pre-2010 period, regardless of the 2008 crisis, were as follows, which is why after 2010, we had to pursue a policy that ensured that our national sovereignty, economic and political sovereignty would be restored. How was the world before 2010? It was characterised by growth based on indebtedness. Not many of us have been indebted to....just.the municipalities, businesses and the population. Nearly a sum of loans was taken up by then's government, calculated in euro as Paks II. equivalent to the investment required to maintain capacity. This went on pensions, running and operating the state. Every year, at the end of the year, at the end of the year, the budget maintained with loans was a growing deficit at the time of the settlement, at the closing date, which was the way to bankruptcy. Unemployment was high, and a distorted tax system facilitated this unemployment, which did not stimulate work. There was high inflation, it was a real tax on the poor. It was a direct consequence that the European Commission launched an excessive deficit procedure against Hungary. When we look at the budgetary and economic background, what data has been produced by the so-called bezzeng countries, Sweden, Germany or the Netherlands, we see that countries with low unemployment, low inflation, low government deficits of less than 3 percent of GDP, sustained growth with a balanced economic performance and a manageable low level of public debt. Between 2010-18 we have achieved that we have the data of the countries and Hungarian data, with the exception of inherited sovereign debt data. This is the basis for the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian state, regaining both economic and political sovereignty. [[8.30]] I have to mention that this has also been contributed by the fact that there has been a dynamic wage increase without inflation, so that inflation has resulted in dynamic wage increases and unemployment rates are also low. But it should also be added that the employment rate increased from 55.4 percent in 2009 to 68.8 percent, which is almost unique in Europe. What did it take? The so-called unorthodox solutions, the tax system that uses work and performance, the economic, legal and political environment that attracts investment, as well as the establishment of a strict but equitable tax system that supported the work and required political stability. If we look forward to 2019, then I think that these characteristics, which I have just listed, remain. We could also say that this proposal for a budget law for 2019 is not such a problem, because it is enough to establish the use of the goods available to the country in a system that promotes these marginal conditions. But we all know it's more than that. 2019 has created, created and will bring new challenges not only for Hungary but also for the world and Europe. We face more challenges: we must guarantee Hungary's security, border protection, the fight against illegal migration, ensure national sovereignty with the content already defined in the Fundamental Law, and preserve the Christian faith. Processes to complete the work-based society and improve our demographic situation must also be supported. We need to reduce the rate of population decline, and we hope that population growth will also occur in our country. We are also facing a huge challenge, at the start of a new industrial revolution, or perhaps we are already in it, so our innovation tasks should not be neglected. The challenges of the digital world must also be met in Hungary, and they must be able to respond to the transition to decarbonised economic development. I feel and I see that the draft budget law for 2019 can address these objectives, and if we look back at this budget law in 2020, we say that, like the period between 2010 and 18, we have adopted a budget law that has provided answers to the challenges of the era, and these responses have been good and effective for Hungarian society. I think it is important that our draft budget law serves stability and security in this country, prepared for the consequences of a possible economic crisis. This means that the budget increases the overall reserve by about 50 percent and the reserve required to ensure the deficit target. What I see is that there is a cover for this, and this cover is the dynamic growth of the Hungarian economy: a 4.1 percent increase is expected in the next year as well. We have every chance of achieving this 4.1 percent increase. There's a 1.8 percent budget deficit, and there's a good chance we can count on that. What I consider important to mention in order to meet the innovation and other economic challenges is that some HUF 4000 billion will be invested in the country with government support. This is a huge sum, and this shows that Hungary is not only able to implement economic stimulus measures based solely on European Union resources, but it also derives from its own strength, the sacrifices of the Hungarian people, the innovative and proactive activity of Hungarian businesses, an income from the state that it can turn back to the economy and thus promote its growth. We will continue to develop a work-based, work-promoting tax system. Many say that a single-key tax system cannot be proportionate. With respect, with the family tax reduction, there are many keys to this tax system. It is certain that we can set our family support system as an example for Europe, because within the framework of this, we have significantly reduced the burden on families raising children over the last eight years. This continues, because, for example, the support for families with two children will increase by some 240 thousand forints, which means that this support has doubled over the past period. The social contribution tax on employers will also be reduced, which is part of the tax reduction. When we hear from the opposition benches that Hungary has the highest VAT content, we always forget that although the percentage of VAT is indeed the highest in Europe, but if we look at the overall VAT impact, I am talking about VAT on basic foods, taking into account the VAT rate on basic foods - then Hungary, the VAT performance of the Hungarian population, is much lower than the VAT performance of several other European, lower VAT rates. So from this point of view, it can be seen that the VAT burden of products in the new draft budget law is to reduce the VAT on milk and dairy products to 5 per cent - which best serve everyday life during purchases, so it is necessary for the daily livelihood of the population, and the VAT on products is usually 5 per cent. I must add that maintaining family home support is absolutely necessary to improve the demographic situation. According to the draft budget, we will spend HUF 16 billion more on this in 2019, with a total of HUF 242 billion in the budget, and so far it has served to create a home for 75,000 families. Hopefully, this dynamic will survive, and this will not be an obstacle to a budget deficit. This is an extremely well-supported family support system, which is very generous in Europe through family tax incentives and home-building grants, which is in line with the fact that we are, of course, putting this family support system in a work-based world. With regard to the challenges mentioned above, I was pleased to see in the budget that there was more money to protect the country, 350 billion to protect security, 512 billion to defend the military, which is 85 billion forints more than there has been before. The amount to be spent on healthcare will also be higher. As a agglomeration representative, I think it is important to mention that the hospital development programme in Budapest will continue, which will provide quality, professional, fast and safe healthcare for hundreds of thousands of people with close access. I've been looking at the budget lines between the chapters of the wallets. I was pleased to see, also as a agglomeration representative, that the programme "Modern Cities" will continue, with HUF 135 billion in the budget, direct budget support beyond passenger programmes and beyond EU funds. This affects the largest settlement in my constituency, the Medal, the most positive. It is well known that European Union funds can be used in a very, very limited way, but we can perform the programme of modern cities, launched in 2015, dynamically and well prepared. [[8.40]] So we are pleased to see that this is covered further. There is economic development in the region, schools are built, kindergartens are built, we will solve the problem of surface drainage, the building of the police, the court building, the sports centre, and, in addition, a modern social institution will be created. For Érd, the programme of the modern cities is more than urban development, due to historical history it is more of a city building. I am pleased to see among the programmes of the wallets, which will also be covered in the budget, the launch of the development plans of Budapest and the agglomeration and its development programmes. We are very happy to join this, and we hope that the acute problems that the agglomeration has and that people living there are so to say depressed and have legitimate expectations will be resolved in the medium and long term. I would point out that there are, for example, 300 kilometers of dirt in the city in Érden, so this program will be suitable for remedying this. Dear House, I see that both in terms of the main figures and in terms of the budget reflecting the intentions of the wallets and their ideas, which not only ensures balanced development at national level, but also in local matters, ensures the protection that serves to improve the living conditions of the Hungarian people, the stability and sovereignty of the country, and will also ensure the implementation of a classic Christian Democratic programme through the support of families. On this basis, we can support the submitted version of the draft budget law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-8	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, please.
u2018-06-28-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I'd like to focus specifically on health. It is often said within the walls of this House that when we debate in the debate on the budget, there is not a professional debate, but a political debate, and we should approach the budget professionally. The issue of health is one of the biggest problems for people in Hungary today, and I would like to approach it professionally. The Medical Chamber prepared a material in 2017, which was sent to all political parties to see what would be the most important thing to intervene in in health care. I think it is true that this material was produced on 12 May 17th, but it is still timely, only a year old, and I do not think that the government has accepted this material of the Medical Chamber, what it should be doing. Allow me to read you some of this. It's the material of the profession that the profession has made. The issue of the health of Hungarian people, the issue of Hungarian health and funding, the eradication of the poverty of workers in health care has been unorganized and moral obligations for more than a quarter of a century. Preamble. The issue of health and health is essentially and primarily a moral issue. Every citizen of society is literally affected by it, because there is no one who does not need health care at some point in his life. However, the issue of health cannot be resolved within health or through healthcare alone. There is a long list of indicators of Hungarian people's known ill health, statistics of the catastrophic state of health in Hungary, and the serious and hopeless existential situation of doctors and professionals working in it, the increasing shortage of doctors and workers, the mass exodus of doctors and workers, and the chronic mass worker poverty of doctors and workers who have not yet left the Hungarian health care system and the dependence on the health system. However, we do not do so; these facts are now well - known. The social objectives and the measures to be taken at this level regarding the health, diseases, avoidable premature death of people living in Hungarian society and their health care in the framework of social health insurance must be clarified first in order to make a meaningful change in the situation. This clarification opens the room for action for policy and other policies that are technically sound, not to be specified here. The consequences of many of the so-called reforms of the past over a quarter of a century and attempts to reform systems clearly show that something that happened instead of a professional health policy, such as hospital policy, disease policy and lectures accompanied by loud political scandals in the area of health institutions has led nowhere, in the least possible terms. This is now evident in the consequences of serious human lives, avoidable early death and avoidable diseases and suffering. The avoidable inequalities between health status and unjustified premature death are unacceptable. For example, the life expectancy of graduates is 76 years, not 66 years. In the poorest small regions, men live 13.5 years shorter than the richest. Hungarian men can only expect a lifetime of 1.4 years longer today than 50 years ago. It can be avoided The situation is particularly bad when it comes to death: death is particularly high in the deaths that are significantly affected by the functioning of health care. Access to the healthcare system has improved in terms of the population as a whole by making inequalities even deeper. While in 1992 the government spends 6 percent of GDP, in 2015, 4.7 percent of GDP on health care. It can be concluded that the failed attempts to transform healthcare, called reforms of more than a quarter of a century without withdrawal from Hungarian health care and without a real health policy, have had disastrous consequences and can be measured in human lives. The average life expectancy of the Hungarian population is up to 6-8 years shorter, so we die much sooner than the citizens of other European Union countries. However, we can spend up to 4-6 years more of this disease than the citizens of other EU countries. It is totally unacceptable that we die 6-8 years earlier, and we spend many years more of our shorter lives in sickness because we were born in Hungary. The differences in life expectancy over a few years and the real size of the problem in this regard are generally not seen in the full severity. What is the problem behind a few years of life expectancy? According to a British study, if all coronary artery disease disappeared from a particular population, it would result in an increase in life expectancy of 4.5 years. The issue of the health of Hungarian people and the issue of Hungarian health, including the problem of the forced labour poverty of the people working in it and their fundamental needs for self-esteem and shameless life, their interests and rights are not an economic issue at all in a country of development such as Hungary. This is primarily a moral issue, as is the country's annual budget primarily and essentially a moral document. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here I would like to continue with the eight points that the Hungarian Medical Chamber has recommended to political parties and the government what the government should do to prevent the health situation from being the biggest problem in Hungary today. 1. A clear, clear and unmistakable constitutional attachment to the right to professional and effective health care, which is equally accessible and appropriate to the health needs of Hungarian people. 2. The institution and central organisation of social health insurance, which carries out social risk management for public purposes, is the restoration, stabilisation, constitutional settlement and adequate constitutional protection of the National Health Insurance Fund. [[8.50]] 3. The system of institutions responsible for the constitutional protection of the institution of social health insurance, the organisation and financing of the health care of Hungarian people, should be raised to a constitutional level once and for all above the political level in order to protect the interests of society as a whole from the most fundamental needs of health and quality of life, and should be protected from the unpredictable professional and moral outcomes of daily party political battles and bargaining processes, and should be excluded from the political battles of parties. This is the most sad and serious experience of over a quarter of the past century's irresponsible measures on health and social health insurance in thousands of lives. 4. The dependence and exposure of social health insurance on annual health budget planning and unpredictable budgetary bargaining processes should be removed. Not only should the institution of social health insurance and the right of Hungarians to health care be granted constitutional protection, but also the mandatory minimum level of working funding required for this purpose. At least 6.5 percent of annual GDP, i.e. an increase in the current annual operating funding level, expressed as at least 2 percent of GDP, is required for a fair and adequate and adequate level of functioning of social health insurance and health services organised and financed by it, and the health care system, today's money amounts to an annual surplus of HUF 700 billion. This should be laid down as a mandatory minimum level in the Constitution. With this, the financing of stable, predictable operation of the social health insurance system and the Hungarian health care system can be avoided, because it must be excluded from the scope of annual GDP based economic calculations based on macro indicators. 5. One half of this amount should be used to finance the operation of the health care system through real estate expenditure, including the elimination of the causes leading to the re-production of the normal supply debt of HUF 120-150 billion, which has been accumulated for more than ten years, plus the development and conversion of the current bled, stripped operating standards of the system to the appropriate and expected level of age. This is one of the fundamental conditions for each citizen to be provided with appropriate tools, procedures and materials to meet his/her health needs and meet the standards of the age, within a medically acceptable waiting period. 6. The other half of this amount should be devoted to a lasting and reassuring settlement of the income and existential situation of healthcare workers. Without a doctor, a worker or other health care worker, there is no health care. The present deeply unfair, immoral, and unjust situation against them can only be solved in one way. Half of the resources needed to increase health resources, in today's money at least HUF 350 billion, which is at least 1 percent of GDP, must be used to restore the existential security of people working in healthcare and citizens, to eliminate their forced labour force into permanent poverty, to eliminate their coercion to the system of gratuity, to ensure their self-esteem, human dignity and basic social conditions of their shameless lives. This is also the repayment of moral debt at the basic social level for more than a quarter of a century and the fulfilment of moral obligations that can be fulfilled at the social level. A credible settlement of these primarily moral debts could also open up the possibility of replacing doctors and workers who are currently missing from health care. 7. The establishment of a decent level of income for healthcare workers should be based on the principle of equal social utility on the basis of a sector which is, by its very nature, sound and publicly funded, such as the court pay table, and ultimately be adjusted to the extent of the high level of responsibility and burden that is unique to the healing sector. And point 8 of the Medical Chamber states that the mandatory minimum funding for social health insurance and health operations, fixed at 6.5 percent of GDP, is far below the OECD average. At the same time as the mandatory minimum level of operating funding should be laid down in the Constitution, according to which mandatory schedule the average operating funding level for the health of OECD countries should be reached in the period up to five years. Social health insurance and health care are among the social goods of absolute priority, because the state of health, without exception, affects the life, health, illness, full capacity to provide social functions and avoid premature death directly and inevitably. Today, a number of things are being financed from budgetary resources that are not at all among the priority social goods. This fact also proves that no morally acceptable justification at the level of our country's development can be given to ensure a fair supply of priority social goods, so that there is no sufficient resources to finance the functioning of healthcare in the 2019 budget. It is necessary to save on the public expenditure that the country devotes to things that are not the priority social goods, because they are not at all uniformly vital for each Hungarian citizen. This is not an economic issue, not a social issue. This is a moral issue that directly and fundamentally affects the moral and political legitimacy of politicians, politics and government. The material of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-28-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Zoltán Demeter, the representative of Fidesz is next. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been said several times both yesterday and today that the 2019 budget is a budget for safe growth. This was confirmed by the opinion of the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been pursuing a tax reduction policy in support of families and job creation, which, of course, we do not intend to stop next year. Moreover, in addition to a proportionate tax system, we will further reduce the tax burden on labour and the tax burden on businesses and families. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, as a member of the Judicial Committee, to make a statement on the ecclesiastical matters of the committee and on nationalities in the context of the budget. To this end, it is important to recall Article VII of the Fundamental Law. Article 4 (4) of the Treaty, which sets out the following:. State and religious communities may cooperate in order to achieve Community objectives. Cooperation shall be decided by the Parliament on the basis of the request of the religious community. The religious communities involved in the cooperation function as established churches. In view of the involvement of established churches in the tasks of achieving Community objectives, the State grants specific entitlements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The commitment of public and religious communities to cooperation is demonstrated by the bill on the budget submitted, which is set out below. [[9.00]] Looking back on a few ideas and reassuring my fellow opposition Members that it was not for the period before 2010, but only until 2010 - the first decision of the Hungarian Government in 2010 was to remove the burden on local governments for five years if they had given the school its maintenance into church treatment and at the same time assumed the additional normative funding of church-based educational institutions. In my opinion, the state has created and maintained the possibility of plural education both in Hungarian villages and in Hungarian cities. The addition of 1 per cent of personal income tax by another 1 per cent is recorded in the long term this year without the need to repeat the provision of 1 per cent per year. The allowance fund is paid annually to the churches for the compensation of unrefunded former church property. It helps to finance the development of the provision of assets to churches and supports the community programmes of churches. Dear Parliament, I would also like to highlight in particular the support for the teaching of faith among the central budget contributions for ecclesiastical purposes. Under the law of ecclesiastical law, the ecclesiastical legal person, the state, local government or the educational institution maintained by the local minority self-government and the higher education institution maintained by the state or the national minority self-government may organise a life of faith education as defined by law, and the costs of religious education shall be provided by the State by law or by agreement with the established church. Next year's budget allocates HUF 3100 million to support optional non-school religious education. In my view, the education of future generations has a major impact on Hungary's future. This is precisely why I consider it very important that the budget provides adequate budgetary resources for the teaching of the faith according to the needs. It is important to mention the support of church public collections and public education institutions, which has increased fivefold compared to 2010. The amount can be used to support the operational, renovation and enrichment tasks of institutions carrying out ecclesiastical collections and to supplement the remuneration of qualified researchers working in church public collections, as well as the functioning of ecclesiastical public education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, After the educational tasks of the religious communities, let me also highlight the national preservation role of the churches. The budget also covers the income of church persons serving in settlements of less than 5 000 inhabitants, which also includes support for the maintenance of fully closed Jewish cemeteries with respect to religious requirements and grace aspects, as well as the renovation of closed cemeteries and exceptionally in-use Jewish cemeteries owned by non-Jewish communities. The 2019 budget also provides cover for the pastoral work of church persons serving in Hungarian in foreign sporadic settlements and complementary support for their national preservation activities. I believe that the support of church persons serving in the Hungarian language in the Hungarian congregation across the border, in addition to the purpose of religious support, contributes greatly to the unity of the Hungarians living in the sporadic. In terms of developments, the government views churches as partners in this work for the survival and ascension of the nation. Therefore, the government also strongly supports the infrastructural development of religious communities in Hungary in connection with their faith and public service activities. Ladies and gentlemen, Among the appropriations, I would also like to emphasise the support for programmes and investments for church community purposes, which has also increased significantly compared to 2010. I am very pleased about this, because projects, programmes and investments in community building, the provision of public tasks, and in the life of faith, culture, education, social and religious tourism, are eligible for the amount, which is much needed. And let me also point out that Hungary wants to play an active role in helping persecuted Christians in 2019. It has therefore decided to support a scholarship programme and to establish an intervention support framework. By providing budgetary resources, the aim is to increase the wider focus on the subject at home and in Europe, and to support communities in crisis zones affected by Christian persecution through a scholarship programme and intervention assistance. And let me tell you more about the government's relationship with the nationalities, which, in my opinion, are good. As the figures well show, Hungary not only supports the 13 indigenous nationalities living with us in words but also in Europe. Since 2010, the amount of support for nationalities in Hungary has increased by about three times. It would be good for all the majority states to help their ethnic groups in the Carpathian Basin, Europe and the world with such exemplary gestures and support schemes. The area of expertise will finance, from the line of national minority grants, inter alia, national minority applications for minority self-governments and non-governmental minority organisations, the support of national minority authorities or ethnic theatres that maintain a nationality public education institution. And we are pleased to say that the envelope for this has, for example, increased more than tenfold in recent years than in the category of ethnic camps. In the planning of the 2019 budget, the additional HUF 300 million is currently included in the budget, taking into account the definition required by the government decisions in the field. The outstanding support for ethnic public education and cultural development in recent years is the placement of the kindergarten of the Serbian Nikola Tesla Kindergarten, Primary School, High School and Student Home, 200 million HUF, the partial transformation and attic construction of the existing school building of the Romanian primary school and kindergarten of Magdu Lucian in Battonya, 150 million HUF and the renovation of the Iglauer Park in Budapest 240 million HUF. [[9.10]] Dear fellow Members, I believe that, based on the experience of recent years, we can say that the cooperation between the state and the church is not only at the level of generality, but also at the level of exceptional matters, a prosperous and growing relationship for the parties. On the basis of the bill before us, I hope that 2019 will also be positive in the area of this cooperation. I would like your support for this, and I thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-28-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Imre László, representative of the Democratic Coalition, is next. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you honestly, for years I have hoped that the government will once recognize the importance of caring for people, of patient care, and not only will it talk about it, but also will do so, for example, with a budget that will create the conditions for caring for the elderly and for a work of healing that is more effective than at present. Unfortunately, we can find very interesting findings if we compare this draft budget for 2019 with the austerity budget for 2009 10 years ago. I would just like to say this quietly, because it is very rare to hear from you that the 2008-2009 years were the years of the global economic crisis, which required austerity measures in the state budget as well. Thus, a budget for 2009 containing restrictions and a planned 2019 budget for a country with a well-supplied economy will be compared in a technical way. Based on the data of the 2009 Final Accountancy Act and the 2019 Bill submitted, the government's priorities will increase next year by the proportion of general community services, protection, law enforcement, entertainment, cultural and religious activities, economic functions and activities not included in the function. On the other hand, it decreases and I apologize to you, but here I quote numbers, in the context of 2009 and 2017 - from 11.7 percent to 10.2 percent for education, from 9.2 percent to 8.6 percent for health care, from 34.3 percent to 28.5% for social security and welfare services, and from 3.6 percent to 3.2 percent for housing. The share of the last four areas is expected to fall from 58.8 percent in the 2009 budget to 50.5 percent in 2019. If we compare the figures for these two years as a percentage of GDP, then we can see that by 2019 the E. Fund's expenditure on benefits in kind, where healing-preventive benefits are detailed, are reduced from 4.26 per cent to 3.99 per cent, and the pension rate is reduced from 8.36 per cent to 7.85 per cent. It is therefore clear already in the first approach that, despite the growing economic development as a result of EU funds, this 2019 Budget Law proposal for health is not even a level of control, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a budget for austerity. There is nothing to justify this austerity, for the economy is doing well, which, according to your optimistic prognosis, will not break in the years to come. Thus, the textual justification of the bill, which concerns the development of health care and the preservation of the value of pensions, must be considered air-borne and without any real basis. Allow me to make some statements on actions and pensions as well. As is known, with an average annual wage increase of 10-12 percent, pensions have increased, as is known, only in terms of inflation. Therefore, as of 1 January 2012, the social contribution tax was introduced, the expenditure on pensions also decreased dramatically and is still falling today. Between 2012 and 2017, pensions fell from 10.8 per cent of GDP to 9.4 per cent, i.e. by 1.4 percentage points. This means that, in proportion to net average earnings, the average value of pensions was reduced from 67 per cent to 58.3% on the basis of the data of the HCSO. Between 2017 and 2019 these values continued to deteriorate, i.e. to 7,85 per cent of GDP and 51,1 per cent of net earnings. Thus, between 2012 and 2019, the expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund decreased by 3 percentage points as a percentage of GDP, which is a huge decrease compared to 16 percentage points in proportion to net earnings. Therefore, between actions and pensions, these certain scissors begin to open very wide very quickly. Compared to 2015, average earnings increased by 35 percent in 2018, while pensions only increased by 3 percent. If this goes on, pensions will lose their value completely. Let me go to my narrower area, so to health care. In view of the fact that 2016 is the last closed year, the submission of the budget paradoxically precedes the submission of the closure act by about half a year. Thus, we have virtually no data for 2017 at the moment, so this reduces the transparency of things to no small extent. Therefore, given that 2016 is the last year closed, I would like to compare the data of this year with the indicators planned for 2019. In view of this, all expenditure appropriations may be reduced in proportion to GDP, in addition to nominal increases which can be considered as natural. In the E. Fund budget, the expenditure on benefits in kind reached 4.3 percent of GDP in 2016, while the 2019 proposal accounts for 3.95 percent. So we need to talk not about growth, but about a reduction. All three items, curative-preventive benefits, drug subsidies and aid support, are both found in the draft at a decreasing rate of GDP. The institutional budgets shown in the central budget fall from 0.37 per cent of GDP to 0.32 per cent of GDP without the institutions of curative-preventive professional care. But let's also look at how the planned budget for health is in the direction of details, how the figures of the 2018 and 2019 budgets are related to each other. Before that, however, I would like to emphasise, as has been seen many times in the speeches, that, when comparing the data of each period, inflation is ignored and, accordingly, the outcome is falsified. [[9.20]] Loosely compared data from 2010 with data from 18 and 19, although we know very well that this comparison is very, very difficult in real terms. Let me tell you, in last summer's lecture by a professor experienced in international research and the work of international institutions, who specifically addressed health statistics, that the 2016 health budget is below the level of support in 2006. Billion forints are flashing, but the moment of truth, ladies and gentlemen, comes when we look at how much a state spends on health care a year per person, and there are serious problems here. It is quite clear from WHO, Eurostat and OECD data that Hungary is one of the hosts in this respect. After all, it does not spend half of the EU average to preserve or restore the health of Hungarian workers. But let's look at some figures in the budget. Forints 1740 bn are included in the 2019 budget in favour of benefits in kind that are important for patient care compared to HUF 1633 bn in 2018. A simple mathematical operation shows a difference of HUF 107 billion. A huge amount, however, ladies and gentlemen, if we take into account the inflation impact, i.e. in real terms, the real difference between the two amounts is already falling to HUF 53 billion. In addition, if you take into account the cost of hospital debts of 60-80 billion per year, the wage increases and the planned spending of the.Ü.V. Budapest, we are already down to 40 billion forints in the area under investigation. In 2019, strictly compared to 2018, there will be clearly less access to protective services, mother, child and youth protection, and I do not know where the family program is - home care, patient transport, and treatment. Nearly half of the targets for curative-preventive care are reduced, and resources can be used to improve basic care and public health in a difficult way. We can't just walk away from basic care and the amount of money that can be spent on emergency care, as the area's exuberant problems are growing day by day. At the moment 309 GP practice, 229 dental practices have been uncharged permanently, there have been no doctors in these practices for six months, and no effective action is taken to stop the government's problems with basic care. I would like to tell you the basic thesis, axiom, which is crucial in the health care sector. There can't be normal and good, reliable healthcare where basic care doesn't work properly. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the 2019 budget is a budget of stagnation, resignation and uncertainty. A budget for bitter awakening. Farewell to growth and the European standard of living, the safety of everyday life. In the ninth year of the Orbán government, Hungary has been reduced, millions will live worse, poverty will increase, and tens of thousands more are expected to emigration, we will move away from the wages of European countries and even the surrounding countries, from improving living standards. The Orbán government has lied about flowering, but there are serious restrictions. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-28-14	Thank you very much. It is now time for Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to focus on the family, because the aim of family and population policy is to achieve demographic stability by strengthening families with Hungarian children, implementing professional programmes and actions to strengthen family-friendly public thinking, increasing the welfare of families, building a work- and family-based society, with important programmes and campaigns, and strengthening family-friendly approaches. In the area of family and population policy, the promotion of childbearing remains a priority so that we can create an environment where the desired children can be born in all cases, and in which the support of the children's intentions of our Hungarian compatriots living outside our borders is given greater emphasis than ever, while at the same time helping to strengthen the national identity, the link to the mother country. I'm also talking about extending baby bonds and maternity support. The Hungarian government has been pursuing a family-friendly policy since 2010, and that is our goal in the future. Next year, not only will there be a system of family tax incentives, but it will also expand. In 2019, the family tax relief of two children will double to HUF 40,000 per month compared to 2015, leaving nearly 350 thousand families with more money. This is the one-and-two-children's tax relief that the socialist-liberal government has taken from people. The increase will thus provide families with an additional income of up to 240 thousand HUF per year in 2019 compared to 2015, while the tax relief of the first married couple will remain next year, the 3 year child and child extra, and the amount of public funds for home creation will also increase. In 2019 we spend more money than ever to support home creation. Next year, there will be 16 billion forints more than this year to create a home. Since its introduction in 2015, CSOK has helped to create more than 75,000 families. We believe that the family support system is on the right track. Thanks to the system of family tax incentives, between 2011 and 2018 HUF 1900 billion remained for families with children. In 2019 there will be more money than ever, HUF 2004 billion to support families. I say this to my fellow Member, Mr László, which cannot be explained by inflation, because in 2010 this amount barely exceeded HUF 1000 billion, and now it will be HUF 2004 billion. So this is more than twice as high as the Balliberal Government spent on this in 2010. 130,000 parents no longer pay taxes or contributions on their income. In the 2019 budget, emphasis will be placed on further strengthening and further developing the reformed nursery and kindergarten institutions in the area of intraday care for children, both in terms of improving the financing situation and in terms of increasing the number of seats, which will help to reconcile family and work even more effectively. We consider it a priority to support the task of methodological organisations and support public benefit organisations following adoption and civil society organisations involved in adoption. The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes the fact that next year it has 10 billion forints for the development of family-friendly obstetrics, as our goal is to welcome families in every maternity ward, where the least vulnerable, with the greatest regard for human dignity, can give birth to the mother. It is important to note here that the number of abortions decreased by more than 25 percent by 2017 compared to 2010. In line with this, of course, we also consider it important to support natural conception. In order to increase the growth of families, the government provides support for the development of the provision of health, education and spiritual services provided by state or church institutions, such as therapeutic programmes, counselling and further training. This amount will be 140 million HUF next year. [[9.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, For two government cycles, a number of positive measures have been taken in the social field. Ultimately, action in the social area will always have an impact on those who need support in some areas of life. As a basic principle, it is good to be able to help as many people as possible before the social safety net should be used. Thoughts and principles do not change to try to give a job instead of aid, to have a regular, predictable income for someone, and to have family support that will leave more money in the family register. We consider it important to put an end to large, slightly outdated children's homes. In recent years, this has already happened in fifteen counties, and we have reached the final phase of the programme. I would like to note that the majority of 21,000 children and 2,500 young adults receiving child protection no longer live in institutions, and two thirds live in foster homes. Since 2010, the government's aim has been to allow as many children as possible to live in a family environment that needs the care of the state. That's why we strengthened the foster system. Next year, therefore, the support of foster families and foster parents could continue to increase, with a total of HUF 450 million more for this purpose next year. We can remember that the Hungarian government introduced the employment relationship in the foster family in 2014, so it gives the foster parent full health and pension insurance. Earlier, the foster parent who cared for one child received 15,000 forints, and now receives 60,000 forints. Three children grew from 45,000 to 113,000 forints. We will preserve and further increase the support for initiatives that have already been effective. From a national economic point of view, and, more importantly, from a social point of view, it is important that there is more employment among the disabled. It must be clearly said that it can create valuable work, add value to our fellow countryman who has changed his working ability. It can provide people with a whole new quality of life and goals if they are given the opportunity to work. The employment rate of people with disabilities is currently 40%, while in 2010 it was only 18%. The government's objective is to further increase the employment rate of 40%. We, of course, support the government in this, because this is a very important priority. For this reason, the government will spend 2.7 billion forints more next year to support the employment of workers with disabilities, making it nearly 42 billion forints in the budget for this purpose. Obviously, it is also essential to involve additional operators to make the programme as successful as possible. Dear Parliament, In October 2010, the National Assembly adopted a decision that the government should draw up a national programme in order to ensure that all Hungarian students studying in general get to the Hungarian residential areas of neighbouring countries with Hungarian state support at least once and that as many Hungarian students from abroad can get to Hungary in exchange. This was the beginning of the Unlimited programme, where tens of thousands of mother seventh graders, high school students and students can reach a connected area, discover the beauty of Transylvania, South-Helvidék, Muravidék, or Transcarpathia, visit the places they have learned from their studies, literature or historical studies, and meet young Hungarians who live and learn there. In addition, young people across the border will also have the opportunity to come to Hungary and spend a few days here, learn about the capital or other points of the country. In addition to dual citizenship, it is important for us to have a relationship based on personal experiences as a basis for belonging together. Young people should develop this in school age, so that the growing generation will be able to take responsibility for our Hungarian brothers and sisters across the border. The Unlimited tender is very popular, as there is constant simplification in the tendering accounts, the eligible costs have been extended. All of them help students to leave and the teachers' administration. This is why it is welcome that more than HUF 5.6 billion will be available for these trips next year. As a young Member and youth leader, I am particularly pleased that the government sees young people as partners, and in recent years we have proved on numerous occasions that young people can count on us. The VAT on the Internet has increased by 5 percent, student loans have increased, support for festivals, mobility and volunteering programmes have been launched, social scholarship will increase by 40 percent, and an unprecedented college development programme will be launched, as well as a few examples of what we have done for young people. The budget before us is also available to support the first successful language exam of young people for HUF 2.79 billion, and the contribution to young people's driving licence, i.e. to obtaining their license, the free KRESZ exam and the preferential license will be HUF 1676 million next year. It is also important to mention the issue of Roma schools. These institutions support and support the educational advancement of disadvantaged students, including Roma, who attend university or college. The Christian Roma College Network, established in 2011, is a unique initiative at European level, can be identified as good practice for European countries, there is interest in the programme and is constantly interested in it from various European countries. The aim of the Roma networks is to enable a well-trained Roma intellectual layer to play a public role in the future, supporting and participating in helping people of Hungarian Roma nationality to catch up, and to allow students of disadvantaged, including Roma origins to work on the labour market through the acquisition of a diploma. Cohabitation is an important educational element of Roma schools, so students are placed in student homes. Their study programme is based on three basic pillars: the development of the Gypsy-Hungarian dual identity, the acquisition of the spiritual module and public knowledge. Currently, there are eleven such specialised schools for operational purposes in rural university cities and in the capital, with a total of 325 disadvantaged Roma students. In addition to human education, students are also present in the medical, technical and economic fields as well as in the arts. In 2019, all eleven specialised schools will close the funding of the EU programme, so that the maintenance and professional operation of the entire Roma community and support for costs that cannot be financed from EU funding will be included in the domestic budget. The date of completion of the development phase varies from one college to another: from April 2018, starting from the last two months until January 2019. The additional support for this is therefore HUF 410 million in the budget in 2019. It is important to note that my fellow Member Demeter has already spoken about it, but we are sitting here in Parliament with representatives of a Member and twelve speakers from thirteen nationalities. The relations between the Hungarian government and the governing parties with the nationalities of Hungary are excellent. As the figures well show, Hungary not only supports the thirteen indigenous nationalities living with us in a prominent way, both in words and at European level. Since 2010, support for nationalities in Hungary has increased by about three times. As a priority, we have stated that this support system, which has strengthened nationalities in Hungary, should also serve in the countries where Hungarian minorities live, so we are in contact with these advocates in particular. I am thinking primarily of Slovak, Ukrainian, Romanian, Serbian, Croatian and Slovenian advocates. I think it is extremely important that we set an example in countries where Hungarian minorities live, how we treat minorities here in the government and in Parliament, how we support nationalities and how we support their institutions. After all, more and more people claim to be nationalities, as well as the institutions they maintain and the young people and students who study there or are connected in some way. Nationality camps, where cultural, religious, sports and other programs can strengthen ethnic identity, with either native language teachers or exchange students, are a very important element of the life of nationalities in Hungary. Since 2010, and this also cannot be explained by inflation, the amount that can be applied to ethnic camps has increased more than tenfold. In the next year's budget, the funding of national minority institutions will be used for investment and renovation or for tendering, which will increase by HUF 200 million to more than HUF 1.2 billion. Nationality grants cover a range of applications available to national authorities and civil society organisations, among others. Here, too, we can see an increase of HUF 100 million, so we can talk about HUF 2 billion and HUF 847 million next year. Thus, in this priority and important area, as we have seen every year since 2010, we will see progress now, with HUF 300 million in additional support available in 2019. Finally, let me say one more area: this is the ecclesiastical area, which will also be discussed by my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi. I would just like to highlight the importance and the visible impact of the funds for community building. Part of the money on-going support for church community programs will be launched where smaller community programmes, camps, pilgrimages, and smaller community investments will be made from a maximum of HUF 5 million. [[9.40]] KDNP considers communities to be extremely important, and we believe that the strengthening of communities, belonging to the community, will help the country, the nation and the people in it. Our important goal and this has been shown in support of events, festivals, camps, campsites and community building organisations, churches, in recent years - that young people who are looking for it find valuable communities not only for self-serving but also for helping others. In recent minutes, therefore, we have shown that support for communities, people in need, as well as support for nationalities and students across borders is also increasing in the next year's budget. We all think this is welcome, and that is why we are in favour of the 2019 budget proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary of the EMMI asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, More has been said in recent speeches about health, let me draw your attention to some important budget lines in this regard, especially the fact that obviously the health surpluses in this budget focus not only on the healing of people who are already ill, but also on the preservation of the health of healthy people and, of course, also on family policy objectives. Wage increases are one of the most important things for everyone in Hungarian health care, so it is important that the labourer's wage increase started in recent years will continue in the following year, and the worker's salary will increase by 8 percent in the following year in general, in the entire healthcare system. I think it's a goal that everyone can agree with, and the budget has its funding. In recent years, the successful programmes launched by the government have been to increase the funding of the waiting list and basic supply. We have spent billions of forints to reduce the waiting list, with the result, as the number of waiting lists has decreased from 70,000 to 28 thousand. We continue to try to keep this result as one of the better results at European level. This is also covered in the budget. The additional support for GPs increased the funding of GPs by 74 percent. Now it is not from 800,000 forints, but from more than 1.5 million forints per month that a general medical practice can manage. In the following year, it will rise to the neighborhood of 1.6 million forints, from just over 800 thousand forints in 2010. Prax grants, i.e. grants for the purchase of the practice and non-refundable grants for establishment, have also been the result, since in recent years we have been able to manage the provision of general medical care and the provision of 135,000 dental care to 500,000 people by paying these grants. Their continuation is also included in the draft budget for next year, so anyone who wants to have his/her own and non-substitutional home-patients on the ground as many as possible can support this budget. It is also important to increase support for residency grants. The budget will increase by 2.8 billion forints, which will also serve the goal of ensuring that Hungarian young medical students and medical students who graduated in Hungary gain higher income by entering the residency support programme and then work in Hungary in a publicly funded healthcare system. Here, too, the previous budget is over HUF 10 billion, and we are raising it now, and next year there is nearly HUF 2.8 billion more on this line than this year. As I said, we are trying not only to treat diseases, but also to focus more on prevention. For example, broadening the supply of vaccines was also an important government decision. Back in 2016, the government decided to widen the range of vaccinations, which could be given free of charge to Hungarian families. We have expanded the range of free vaccinations in the previous four years by three, and the government has now proposed HUF 1.9 billion as a surplus in the current budget. However, there is also a vaccine purchase programme for children in Transcarpathia, because the children there live in much more difficult conditions, and the Ukrainian state provides them much less, which is why we are trying to help them there. So we are trying to expand the range of free vaccines for children both within and across borders, precisely so that children can maintain their health, and this obviously also affects their adulthood. The program, the construction and preparation of the 3 plus 1 centre and the development of more than 28 co-hospitals will continue. The budget lines for this are also available. I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to a very important part of the development of outpatient care within the. Healthy Budapest programme, to which the draft budget submitted for the following year contains HUF 6.5 billion, on the one hand, and 5.5 billion on the other. We hope that this will not only help to strengthen the general medical benefits that I have told you, but also to improve outpatient care and, in addition, to raise inpatient care to European level in Budapest, to a super hospital level that could have already been created in a few rural cities. It is important to continuously replace the ambulances of the National Rescue Service. You all know the conditions at the Rescue Service in 2010, the average age was very close to the legal maximum, and now the average age of ambulances is much, much lower. We would like to further improve this many years of repair, with HUF 1.9 billion for the next year's purchase of ambulances. I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only are we replacing ambulances, not only will their equipment be much more modern and wider, but we have obviously also raised the wages of rescue workers in the previous year, and, as I said, there has been an extra 10 percent increase for rescue workers this year, and next year, the wages of the paramedics will increase by another 8 percent. And they're all covered in the budget. And the government will work as it has done before - to create the basis for the growth of the economy for these wage increases to continue, as quickly as possible, because I believe that is the common goal of all people with good feelings. But as I mentioned, not only ambulances, not only wages change, but paramedics' equipment. They don't work in former clothes that don't help them, but rather prevent them from doing rescue work, but they can also work in one of the coolest suits in this market, made by a 140-year-old Norwegian company, Helly Hansen. When one goes to the shops, it is one of the most designer, most expensive sports equipment, or everyday wear; we thought that the paramedics had to give the best, so after many years, these clothes finally arrived at the Rescue Service. For the development of family-friendly obstetrics, the budget includes HUF 5 billion for the second phase, the first 5 billion for this year, and the second 5 billion for the next year. In this way, we can spend 10 billion forints so that children who are to be born into the world can be born as much as possible under homely, familyly, safe conditions. I would also like to draw your attention to the additional HUF 8 billion allocated to the tasks related to the national public health strategy. Next year's budget for launching the nursing home development programme also includes a surplus compared to the previous one. But it also includes an extra 300 million forints for flying donor organ delivery. As a surplus to the Hungarian lung transplant program, our health budget includes HUF 2.5 billion, with several other surpluses, which really provide a surplus of HUF tens of billions. If we look at another important part of the budget in relation to health, not to the health chapter, but to the coverage of the Health Insurance Fund, we also see that several items are growing: the cost envelope for curative-preventive care is increasing to a considerable extent, with HUF 69 billion, with an increase of nearly 25 billion for drug subsidies. But in the same way, for medical aid aid, there's a six-billion-dollar item. The issue of other benefits in kind and the provision will also increase in the draft budget for next year. One thing is reduced in the draft budget for next year in the Health Insurance Fund, and this is the expenditure spent on operation. So we spend less on operation and more on patients, more on healing patients. It can therefore be seen that the government is trying to make up for every year, including next year, the items that were taken from health care before 2010 and we are much further ahead, as these items have already raised the health insurance fund's numbers above HUF 2000 billion, which were around HUF 1500 billion in 2010. So there was a comprehensive and powerful rise here to cover the costs of healing. In recent years, support for the sport sector has also been mentioned in the field of EMMI. On this day, you will also hear a longer presentation from Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó, but allow me to refute the accusations that the government would not spend on mass sports and the maintenance of mass sports facilities. [[9.50]] Serious billion-dollar items are included either in support of the maintenance of sports facilities or in support of various sports associations or even of the Association of Nature walkers. The various sports facilities maintained by national sports centers, a large part of which is a swimming pool or a sports hall, here the surplus that we can use for operation is a billion and a half. Let us not forget that a built swimming pool, which is set up, say, in the national sports infrastructure development programme, costs somewhere between HUF 300 and HUF 500 million, has an annual operating cost of around HUF 80 million, and it is not for the municipalities to pay for it now, but for the state to do so through national sports centres. An average swimming pool of 80 million forints a year, and it is not for the municipality to manage. But fortunately, a lot of new swimming pools are being created, because the government wants to build a swimming pool in every district where it doesn't yet. These transfers are continuous, and this HUF 1.5 billion surplus is also reflected in the operating costs. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the budget includes HUF 2.5 billion for the construction of outdoor sports parks, which are one of the most direct providers of human health. Out of this 2.5 billion forints we can offer basically free outdoor gyms to more and more people. There are few easier and more accessible ways to play sports, and obviously running is still like this. For those who don't have the money to buy tickets or tickets to the gym, we can offer this in more and more places on a free space with absolutely free access. On the other hand, in such a park, where there are more machines or any other equipment, it is likely that community life is somewhat enhanced by the fact that people living together are playing sports in the environment. Overall, I can say that there are significant surpluses in the budget not only in the field of sport, but also in vaccinations and other areas. And so I have described the items that are serious billions and ten billion that serve the surplus of healing sick people in next year's budget. Anyone who wants to increase the amount of expenditure on health care that can be spent on health care, I ask that they support next year's budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-18	Thank you very much. We will now return to the pre-notified speeches by Members. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP, is next in line. Here.
u2018-06-28-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, While we are already discussing the budget, I would like to respond briefly to the speeches by some Members before me, on the one hand, by Mr Hadházy and, on the other, by Mr András Aradszki. Mr Sándor Hadházy has long appreciated the positive economic processes, the stable economic situation and predictability, and has outlined a very serious perspective plan and vision. I think that the unfounded nature of this is being underlined by the current news about the weakening of the forint exchange rate and worrying news. I can also support the unfoundedness of these over-optimistic plans, of this too optimistic vision, with problems that continue to be huge emigration among young Hungarians, and there are still very important economic and social systems, basic systems that creak and crackle, and the predictability of which cannot be guaranteed, and we cannot even see where the thousands of billions of people need to be. So I think that the Member's speech was a little optimistic, and I certainly had to respond to it. However, the Member also indicated that the figures in the budget are stable, so the figures are well-founded. I do not want to go into this debate right now, but I think it is extremely important that it is much more relevant to debate what the structure of the budget looks like, so it is not the fact that the figures are justified, but the structure of the budget itself. One of my opposition fellow Members mentioned the question that the budgeting, the debate on the budget, is a political debate or a professional debate. I think that this is basically a political debate, because we need to take political decisions, what we want to use the available resources for, and then we need to bring them to a professional level after making the right policy decisions, and then we need to implement them. At the same time, it is not exactly what some of my opposition colleagues mentioned in Hungary's budget next year, such as preparing for the new industrial revolution. After all, the statement that the government wants to invest more in education is unfounded. This is not true, because the government does not want to spend any more on it in real terms, and we see government measures that act in the opposite direction, i.e. in the opposite direction as regards the possibilities for R &amp; D to develop. The government has some goals that can be agreed with, but if you look at the budget, you can see from the numbers that it acts differently and says otherwise. Obviously, this is a groundwork, and we know from the Prime Minister's earlier statements that we must not listen to what they say, but what they are doing. In the present case, the figures entered in the budget should be monitored. Mr Aradsk has long assessed the period before 2010. I think that after the start of the third government cycle, we should not be dealing with this, but rather with their own performance and lack of it and the mistakes that have been made and should be dealt with rather than with the period before 2010. However, I note in parentheses that we agree with the criticism of the period before that, as regards most of the issues, which is why, obviously, we are saying that the alternative is not to be sought in the period before 2010. At the same time, the Member mentioned one important point on the issue of national sovereignty. I will then illustrate with one or two concrete examples from the budget and from government policy, development policy and various international treaties that the government is acting differently than it communicates here. And another thought about the Christian Democratic program. Congressman Nacsa was talking about family-friendly measures. I think that it would be a genuine Christian Democratic programme and a family-friendly government that would prevent thousands of families from being forced to break up because of migration. Unfortunately, this is a national tragedy. If someone is talking about family-friendly governance, then that is the issue that should be addressed. My main idea about the budget is that these issues are not covered by the budget. It is not in it, it cannot be read out by the fundamental change of mind that would involve the government's ability to counter these processes. I am thinking here about the issue of emigration, the problems of the demographic crisis, the emptying of rural areas, the inability or inability of this government, but, I add, the preventive government has also been able to reduce territorial differences within the country, and they have been unable to address the issue of the wage crisis, despite one of my pro-government colleagues talking about continuing wage increases. There may have been an increase in wages, but there is still a wage crisis at a level that is, unfortunately, the basis for this emigration that is causing a serious national tragedy. We believe that there should be a fundamental change of approach in policy and that these should be set at the centre and that all resources should be used as good farmers and that the budget should be planned in this way. At the same time, I have one more thing to refer to. On the one hand, we can read the budget numbers and on the other hand, we have to say that, unfortunately, every year, most money goes to corruption in Hungary. One of the most important tasks would be to eliminate this type of systemic corruption in the course of the budget debate, or rather before. This is a serious responsibility for the government, and we do not see any action taken in this direction, and they are even interested in maintaining the situation, and their actions support maintaining this type of systemic corruption. The LMP considers the fight against corruption to be very important, and in recent cycles we have put forward many proposals that would address this problem in many respects. We have now again tabled an anti-corruption bill that, in addition to regulating economic interest enforcement, would create conditions for transparency and create the real autonomy and opportunity for the various control bodies to perform this control function. One of the first important steps would be to eliminate the possibility of corruption in the use of public funds, and then we can talk about realistic budget planning or budgetary debate. I have to say a few words about big projects, investments that we believe do not serve the interests of the nation, and even, where appropriate, they will serve us in the longer term in terms of economic and other social processes, which, if appropriate, will bind the hands of a later government to perhaps lead these processes in a better direction. Many times, my fellow Members have spoken here among the walls of this House about the effects of the Paks enlargement and our opinion on it. I do not want to go into this right now, but the point is that we are presenting amendments with a content that would, of course, cancel all expenditure in this regard from the budget. We are convinced that these thousands of billions should be used in a completely different way, and that this would serve the interests of the nation. We have often said our opinion on sports centres and stadium constructions, and we have put forward the appropriate amendments. At the same time, I would like to quote a little more along a specific project, which is the issue of the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. This is specifically a project in our view that does not serve Hungarian national interests. There is no clear justification for the fact that this hundreds of billions of HUF project would bring any benefit, so that it would base the construction or expansion of a used infrastructure. [[10.00]] We see this issue as specifically serving Chinese interests, creating Chinese references, and by no means serving Hungarian national interests. This investment is carried out by Chinese credit, which will actually be paid by Hungarian taxpayers. So in this way, it is an investment that does not serve national interests, but ultimately hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers go for it. Estimates of how much this investment will cost are now placed in between HUF 700-900 billion. The philosophy behind this is the development of a new silk road, the creation of transport capacities from the port of Pyreus. There is almost a consensus in the profession that the port of Pyreus is so far away that this railway line will be unsuitable for this purpose and not the most relevant development option in terms of passenger traffic. I note that out of this money, say, 900 billion forints on the truly exploited or better exploitable Hungarian railway network, huge improvements could be made, virtually a significant part of the slow signals could be removed from the Hungarian rail network. Another addition to the government's national commitment. We invest or intend to invest hundreds of billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money in order to reach the port in Pyreus, and from the other direction there were government plans, frankly, I do not know how these are now - which would increase the availability of another port, the Koper port in Slovenia. There, the Hungarian government wishes to join a 20-a-mile-long railway development, or there were previously such intentions. It should be added that the port of Pyreus and the port of Koper are competing ports. What's the point? So Hungarian public money is used to make competing developments with each other, when even if you want to create such a new silk road, you could think of rail connections. So this is my view of the Hungarian government's national commitment. I would also like to talk about a very important issue, which is the issue of reducing territorial differences. It is clear to everyone that, unfortunately, we have not been able to change the situation since our accession to the EU that four domestic regions are among the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and this obviously also raises the grave responsibility of current and pre-accession governments. However, it should also be noted that territorial differences within regions are extremely worrying. This government could not stop it either, but it clearly has no intention of halting the increase in territorial differences within the regions. This government could not stop the migration from the countryside, but it can be seen from the planned sources, from the structure of the budget, that the government had actually given up on this task, had given up on the small villages. It can be said that this government, which has declared itself national, is in fact pursuing the policy of destroying the village for the past decades. There are no sources that can be read, there is no communication at all, nor can it be seen how they intend to stop the depopulation of the villages, the depopulation of the villages in the peripheral region. On a communication level, it was a program of a modern village, an analogy of the. Modern Cities. But where are the budgetary resources for this? Where's the contents? Where's your foundation? When will this happen? And then the program of modern cities. I myself am an urban, metropolitan representative, Pécs, there I have experienced at close range the way in which the modern city program works, or what is the philosophy of the government. Basically, it does not give the resources to the municipalities, it takes them away from the cities, and then Viktor Orbán travels around the country and, as a benefactor, tells us what improvements will be made. However, in this way, the opinion of the population, let alone the communities concerned, is not taken into account, but even professional opinions are not taken into account as to what the most important developments would be in a given settlement according to the possibilities. I do not doubt that there have been very good developments, which have had a specific positive impact on Pécs, but obviously when development resources are so scarce, it is a fundamental responsibility to make the most of these resources, as efficiently as possible. This has not been done, and the implementation of the "Modern Cities" programme in a way that we have experienced from the government is in no way appropriate. I also need to talk briefly about one of my matters of the heart, the issue of transport, transport policy. We can conclude that this government, like its predecessor, is pursuing a completely inadequate transport policy. So on the one hand, we can say that projects and ideas related to the development of transport are also unfounded and misdirected, and, on the other hand, in most cases, they were used as a political cow for transport policy developments, either by the current government or by the previous one. At the same time, a very important subsystem, the Community transport system, is creaking, and although there is a complete consensus in the profession on the need for fundamental reform, I do not see any movement on the part of the government or at all openness to implement such a comprehensive transport reform. In recent times, we have put down various transport policy and Community transport reform proposals, in which we can say that there has been full professional agreement, full opposition agreement, and even that there have been government politicians who do not now have names, I do not want to cause them any harm - who have also agreed with the right direction and the fundamental importance of these reforms. Unfortunately, we can't see where the national bus industry is, which has been promised, where the improvements, vehicle fleet upgrades are, which would help the extremely bad situation of public transport, and in the case of the new state, regionally reorganised companies, the average age of the fleet is quite worrying. We have just heard from the Secretary of State of Rétvári about the development of the ambulance fleet. These are very welcome things, but it is extremely important that the vehicle stock of public transport also needs to be developed, and how good it would be if, in line with government rhetoric, this would give a huge market opportunity to a national bus industry. Unfortunately, we don't see a trace of this, or just a small effort or two, but they're actually dead too. Let's look at development policy. The most striking thing in the budget is that they want to spend 20 billion forints on road development instead of the previous 40 billion. It's a huge irresponsible thing to think about. You should also know that the state of the lower road network in Hungary is deteriorating year after year, so the conditions of roads that are in such a bad situation that they cannot be improved will have to be rebuilt. This process will be accelerated, honourable Members, by further reducing the resources to be spent on maintenance and by allowing these roads to be destroyed. I just can't imagine where the resources will come from to rebuild these roads. It is extremely important that these roads fill peripheral rural areas with a clear life, which, by the way, are facing a thousand other infrastructure problems. On the other hand, in connection with the development of motorway construction or the motorway network, there are still serious question marks, and we do not really see what new direction the government intends to take into account. But it is clear that, in our view, it would not be necessary to build new motorways, but to maintain precisely the lower road network and the very bad main roads, the traditional main roads in some places, because motorways will be relevant, they will be better exploited if this lower road network can achieve the loading function. Unfortunately, this is not the time for this road network. At the same time, we agree that there are important motorway network elements that are necessary. I have said a lot of times in various forums that we believe there is a huge need, for example, for an expressway link that would connect the southern regions of the country by avoiding the capital. These projects should be pushed, urged, and the extension of completed motorways to the border may be justified. But overall, the resources should not be used for further compression of the Hungarian motorway network, but for the lower road network to be able to fulfil its basic task of creating conditions for rural life, conditions for economic operation, and in this way they should also be able to fulfil a loading function in connection with the motorway network. The LMP will have a lot of proposals in this respect, which I have said, and we have obviously tabled and presented the many amendments that underpin this, which would use these large development directions to achieve these forgotten but extremely important goals. I very much hope that my fellow Members will recognise that this is an unsustainable situation and will support these amendments. We have also made a proposal in the past that we should also reduce VAT on public transport, the VAT on public transport, and that we will also make proposals later. I would also like to add that, in terms of the problem of the lower road network, while the government significantly reduces expenditure compared to the previous year, professional calculations show that HUF 1000 billion is missing in order to restore the lower road network so that it can provide rural areas at least at an appropriate level. I would also like to say very briefly about the situation of the municipalities. In a previous debate, it was said in a government response to my suggestion that the municipalities could not be indebted. Of course they can be indebted. Obviously, directly indebtedness of the municipality can be prevented by law or borrowing can be linked to government contributions, but the municipalities are brutally indebted through their own companies. I can give you the example of Pécs: there was once a debt transfer of HUF 44 billion, and now the city's debt with the companies is above HUF 20 billion. My fellow Members in Pécs know exactly how hard a city can be indebted to the fact that it has a bad owner, and on the other hand it has a bad government policy, which is related to this. [[10.10]] Basically, the problem with a municipality is not that it is indebted, has little resources, the immediate problem is that it cannot participate in a task that would otherwise be a very serious, important task for the municipality to be the engine and catalyst of an economic recovery activity. In the absence of resources, it cannot develop the local economy. On the other hand, many Hungarian cities and municipalities cannot finance the very important public services that directly affect Hungarian people. For example, water supply, public transport. This is precisely why municipalities are indebted, for example, to a fleet update. State price supplements and subsidies are uncertain, which is why we are experiencing huge local tax increases all over the country at local government level. Obviously, it is a convenient government position to withdraw funds or not to give them all the resources they need, and then the local Fidesz mayor will measure his own popularity with regard to making a huge tax increase, thus distressing the citizens of the city. But obviously that's not the answer. Therefore, the LMP is also proposing amendments which would increase the resources allocated to municipalities. I would like to point out one of them. The residual value of the car tax would be increased to 100 percent, which would immediately increase the resources of the municipalities by HUF 14 billion. I do not think that there is any need to argue that the negative effects of motor vehicle use are on the ground, and it is obviously entirely logical that this tax should go there, and that this source can be used by the municipalities. But I also have to mention that the LMP has collected hundreds of amendments, amendments that came from the lower level, from the place. In particular, local communities have sent us projects that are essential. We will present many, hundreds of such proposals, which will remedy precisely this situation, that the municipality does not have sufficient resources to perform the basic public services, the most important tasks. These must then be ensured at least from the central budget. Among these are projects such as repair of an X-ray machine, asbestos removal programme, development of a specialist clinic, development of hospital equipment, expansion of air pollution monitoring systems, remediation of soil pollution, improvement of drinking water quality. These are all programmes which, if the system of care for local authorities were to be adequate, would not have to be implemented from the central budget, but could be resolved in their own competence. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-28-20	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt V. Németh, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, During the budgetary debate, we have a number of good news, growing family support and falling taxes. More money to protect the country. There are ten or a hundred billion growths in the plan. In this respect, my contribution will be a cuckoo egg, as I would like to talk about a 5, 2 and 0.5 billion proposal, which may not be a priority, since without the resources of the Csoóri Sándor Fund, without the funds to promote national depositories and Hungaricums, or even without the support of the closed garden programme. You could live, but many of us think it's not worth it, because these programs support the living tradition, these programs serve to strengthen our identity, in short, the love of patriotism, which is training the attachment to the homeland. The three programmes may have in common the fact that they feed on national sources on the one hand and the intellectual product of recent years on the other. There have been attempts, timid attempts to devote greater resources to folklore, greater sums or even sums to save village vineyards, but only the Orbán government was willing to do so. The Csoóri Sándor Fund provides support for Hungarian and ethnic and cross-border folk dance groups, folk music groups, folklore circles, as well as support for the creative community of folk arts. In these applications, the promotion of knowledge transfer, the strengthening of professional communities is an important aspect, and, of course, the support of communities as well, as well as the excellent folk dance groups and orchestras provide excellent artistic productions, they also create great communities. In 2017, there were 2 and a half billion in this area, this year already 5 billion, and according to the government's promise, it will spend 5 billion forints on the fund in the next year's budget. From this, the ensembles can prepare their costumes, make practical appearances, use the services of live folk music bands, finance professional education costs, and purchase of small-value instruments such as musical instruments. As a few practicing folk musician, let me mention that more resources should be spent on crafts itself, even at the expense of other areas, because there is a greater problem in this area. To remain the last blue painter, the last slipper maker in Szeged can pass on his knowledge, and a source must be provided. I'm going to raise the support of the dance houses. Let me quote Sándor Csoóri, the name giver of the fund, who at the dawn of the folk dance movement said that there were two important historical moments in the history of folk dance. One: when the folk dance got on stage. The other is, when he's back on the ground, but not as an art anymore, but as a dance, as wind is wind, rain is rain. Well, there's a reason why the dance house movement was included as a method on the UNESCO list of intellectual cultural heritage, and that's how it was added to the collection of hungaricums. Turning to the other area, the circle of Hungaricums, national values, I would remind you that this was possible under the 2012 legislation. Now there are 70 elements in the collection of Hungaricums, from industrial-technical solutions, from agriculture to natural and built heritage. But it is at least so important that we support the creation of values in another dimension, and this is the local circle or regional and regional circle, where we have to realise that a Hungaricum movement has developed both in Hungary and across borders, as more than a thousand settlements have already created their settlement securities. Today's activity is similar to that of the system change, when their coats of arms were created by the settlements, and they sought out the few character elements with which they identified themselves. This collection of values now gives them an additional opportunity. Here, some 500 million funds are used to expand the range of Hungaricums, to make them more familiar, to serve the country image, and to provide support for settlements and associations. Here is the third program, the closed garden program, which seems to be different from the previous two. There are some 200,000 hectares of closed gardens in the country. This name is misleading, we are talking about village vineyards and orchards, and not necessarily historical wine regions; small-scale landscape management, the remains of which still exist. If you look at this 200 000 hectares of closed garden, consisting of 1 150 000 parcels, with the undivided common property of millions of owners, you can see that there is a problem in this segment, about half of the areas can be uncared. The production potential, which also served as a rural development function for the settlements, seems to be lost, served self-preservation. But now these vineyards are destroyed and forested; by the way, this is the better process when we see the vine stake in the forest, because it is a much richer ecosystem than turning it into an agricultural desert, putting sunflowers and corn where it doesn't belong. So, on the one hand, this direction is possible, on the other hand, to ensure professional agriculture in an organised way, by keeping the original cultivation line. [[10.20]] But the primary goal is to maintain the original function, maintain the possibility of an auxiliary economy, and this program throws a lifeline to it. It helps to fix roads, create water supply, supply electricity to vineyards and build a wildlife fence. Like this year's source, the budget will provide HUF 2 billion in the coming year. If you like it, it is also a 24th hour program; as at the time, Béla Bartók, Zoltán Kodály and his followers collected the last folk song, the last orchestral production, and later, György Martin, Ernő Pesovár, the last dance moves, we must now preserve the fruit culture, even with this program. In recent years, the Ministry of Agriculture has supported sample programmes, 69 in the country where we looked for the possibility of using the XXI. To save these values in the century, to take part of the garden into community cultivation. This program is also a landscape management program, as this mosaic vineyard region is an integral part of the country, its character. If it's taken away, we'll be poorer. It also serves biodiversity, since in the last hundred years we have lost about 75% of our food crops. So not only wild plants and animals are dying, but also agro-biodiversity is shrinking. So it is important that it remains in the original region, not only in the gene banks, the gypsy apple tree, the holy apple tree, the bollocks pear, the salt pear, and I could continue, because this authenticates, in fact, it reveals the meaning of why these fruits should be protected, why this culture should be fostered and nurtured, because it is not only about the production of food, it is also about the production of fruit without residues, but also about the preservation of the culture associated with it. As he said, an excellent ethnographer, the vineyards represented an age - wide refuge and a counterworld. We would like this shelter to continue with these grants. I wish that programmes such as this could still be put in place, so that we can actually strengthen our national identity, we can exercise our attachment to the immediate homeland, and we can contribute to a healthier life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-22	Thank you very much. Mr. Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, is coming. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House! Dear fellow Members, I think that there is no debate between us about the importance of the budget, the adoption of the budget law, because the budget determines the functioning of the economy, sets out the balance and growth path on which the economy must move forward. However, if we look at the practice of recent years, we can see that this has not always been the case, or most of the time it has not, because, compared to the budget adopted, the economy was essentially different, also because, after adoption, the budget was amended several times before its entry into force, and then, of course, several changes were made during the process. Well, in view of this, we might also think that it is a pity that such amendments have been made, that the budget cannot be fixed in terms of actual economic operation. However, if we look at the draft budget for 2019, then we see that, thank God, there is a way for the government to make amendments in line with previous years' practice, because with this budget plan, I think it would be very, very risky to start the year 2019, especially with regard to the uncertainties. So let us hope that, in line with previous practice, there will be several amendments on the way, so that we can get away with it without any more trouble. The budget basically has two objectives, two objectives. One is stability and the other is economic growth. However, there is also a need to distinguish between short-term and medium-term objectives in terms of stability and economic growth. So a good budget ensures stability and economic growth both in the short term and in the medium term. Well, the budget ahead of us can't meet this two-fold goal. It cannot deliver because the government insists on a high economic growth of around 4 per cent or more than 4 per cent, while the potential growth rate of the Hungarian economy is not more than 2 per cent. It follows that if this 4-percent growth plan is to be implemented by the government, it must sacrifice medium-term growth opportunities on the one hand and the medium-term objective on the other. Why do I say that? Because, in order to achieve such a significant economic growth of around 4 per cent, what the government has used in previous years will be necessary to ensure that the resources that would have been or should have been devoted to modernisation, restructuring, restructuring, were not used for purposes that could stimulate the economy in the short term. Thus, mainly the construction sector has been developed and works-like investments have been carried out, creating a rapid growth, but as a result of which there is no capital increase and no modernisation. The other side is the maintenance of the equilibrium criterion. As the current state of affairs is well-balanced, therefore, in this particular situation, a significant demand-side stimulus will not in any way lead to imbalances in the short term, but in the medium term, certainly. That is not just what I am saying, but also what the European Commission is saying. The Commission notes in the country-specific recommendations that this was problematic as early as 2017 that the medium-term structural deficit was 3.1 per cent, while it would have taken 1.5 per cent to maintain that path. So a 1.6-percent overshoot has been made and, consequently, it recommends that Hungary should make an adjustment of 350 billion by the end of October. Of course, we know the government's response to this, the government said that since we are not obliged to do so, because we are not members of the Monetary Union, therefore we are not achieving it, but the problem still exists. More importantly, perhaps the SAO itself has acknowledged this. The SAO made the following comment:. The 1.7 percent structural deficit does not correspond to the medium-term government deficit target, because it would take 1.5 percent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As is known, the structural deficit of 1.7 percent is set out in the 2019 plan, but this should be 1.5. Well, based on this, what do we think is the basic character of our budget? I believe that it fits into the course of previous years, the main message of this budget, is that it will continue to adjust to try to achieve the short-term goals by using longer-term opportunities and conditions, i.e. the use of the future will take longer, the problems of which will come later. [[10.30]] My next thought is what economic policy priorities can be identified from this budget. Well, I read three. One is the maintenance of short-term balance, the other is the strengthening of national capital and the third is family support. All three priorities can, by the way, be fundamentally agreed and agreed, but the details are worth observing here too. After all, the question is what the short-term balance is at the expense of. As I have just said, this is at the expense of medium-term growth opportunities on the one hand and the medium-term balance on the other. In fact, as it has been seen in the past, it is a restriction of the welfare system, which has been shown most in the treatment of education and health care stepmothers. The second is the strengthening of national capital, which could otherwise be considered to be an absolute positive objective. But it should not be done in an administrative way to select who the national capital class will be, but rather to go through a market selection. Of course, market selection is a slower process, but in return, it is more secure. Because there is a national capital coming into being, but if you asked what kind of performance this national capital has, let's say, what percentage of exports this newly created national capital can provide, you could get a rather sad number. With regard to family support, I also think that this is a very positive goal, but if you look closely, you can also see that those family support benefits are very strongly concentrated on the upper middle class and the wealthy. Several studies have shown that 80 percent of family support is achieved by the top 20 percent. So it is not basically intended to strengthen the real middle class, strengthen the layers in the middle, or help the poor catch up in some way. What is missing from the priorities? I miss the fact that it is not visible in this budget or in recent years that the government has a concept of structural change and technological development. I couldn't find such a coherent concept in this paper either. There is, of course, a sub-heading of industry 4.0, then there is a reindustrialisation plan, the Irinyi plan, but these are not developed at all. This does not create a coherent concept that could project the fact that now, when the world economy is undergoing a major transformation in the post-crisis period, where we imagine our share and role, for example in high-tech industries, what are the bottlenecks that we could break into and where we could achieve serious results. I also miss the fact that you cannot read from this programme how the government is trying to significantly improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. You refer to this many times, and there are some partial proposals and discounts, but they do not address the basic issues. What new forms of cooperation could be used to achieve a breakthrough here, how to facilitate market entry, how to significantly promote their technological and technological development. Well, with regard to the macro-track, I think the most important thing is that, and here, I think I am not going to tell you anything new or new, because quite a lot of people have said that this 4.1 percent growth target is too ambitious. That's not very realistic. The Hungarian National Bank's forecast is that next year there will be 3.5 percent economic growth. So it's also below the 4.1 percent increase. If we look at it, we can see that this is not based on the supply side, because there has not been an increase in capital in the past period, and there are also problems and problems with the expansion of the workforce. Although the budget envisages a 1.5 per cent increase in labour force, with a 1.9 per cent increase in the competitive sector and a 0.4 per cent decrease in the public sector. Of course, the question of how the public sector has been dismissed will be able to participate in the production of the competition sphere. The latest news is that 60 people were expelled from the State Audit Office yesterday. My question is how these 60 people, who are getting rid of there now, will help us to try to alleviate the shortage of skilled construction workers in some way, or we will try to alleviate the enormous shortage of workers in the service sector. I think it's gonna be pretty hard. The head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Parragh, has already acknowledged that there is a significant shortage of labour, so there is no very much additional resource available. The government expects productivity to increase by 2.6 percent in the coming year. This in itself is not a high figure, but if you look at it, overall productivity has increased by 2.5 percent between 2010 and 17 years. I think it is over-optimistic that productivity will be increased by 8 years in a year. On the demand side, the government expects that there will be a 3.9 percent increase in consumption, given that there has been a significant increase in wages. I think it's pretty well-founded and it can exist. Of course, of course, it is a question of how the cafetheria will end, how much wage cuts this will cause. The government is very optimistic about gross fixed capital formation. Here it predicts a significant, 9.5 percent increase, imagining it. This is likely to be feasible, as the budget plan includes HUF 4000 billion of state aid for investments. This is an incredibly high value, an amount of 9 per cent of GDP, which in turn means that this represents about half of the total investment. One of my pro-government fellow Members mentioned this as a positive thing, but the dangers of this must also be seen. If half of next year's investments will not be made by the competition sphere, but by investments promoted and supported by the State, this could have a very serious market distortion effect. And I would also like to talk about the real dangers of economic growth here, as they can have a significant influence on the pace of economic growth. It is clear that already in the year 19 it can be expected that EU funds will be reduced. More important, however, is that the decline in global economic activity certainly cannot be avoided, which is certainly part of the story. By the way, this has been mentioned by Minister Varga and even by the Prime Minister. And unfortunately, the customs war between the European Union and the United States of America can also cause problems, which can also be very sensitive to the Hungarian economy, given that 80 percent of our exports are made by foreign majority-owned companies. [[10.40]] This is particularly strong in the automotive industry, and 30% of our total GDP is generated by foreign-owned, majority companies, which, unfortunately, will affect us very strongly. While it is commendable that the government, in view of the uncertainties and global turbulences, has increased its reserves by 50 percent, but if this decline is very strong, and this war of customs is broadening, which is a high chance, this 50 percent expansion of reserves will be very little to keep the processes within the planned framework. The next element I would like to talk about is maintaining the financial balance. If we look at the draft budget, we can see that there are heroinic basic assumptions here, as it is written in this document that it was calculated when the medium-term growth and equilibrium path was determined that the central bank base rate would be 0.9 per cent and the euro/forint exchange rate would be 311.3 forints. Yesterday's news is that it was 328 forints. Now, I'm not saying that this 328 forints will definitely survive, and even this trend will continue very strongly, I don't know, not predictable. But there's a good chance he'll never go back to the price of 310. If we're lucky, it could stabilize somewhere around 320 to 325. Of course, if the forint continues to be indisposed, then the central bank will certainly be forced to raise the central bank's basic interest rate. Although I am well aware that the Hungarian National Bank does not have an exchange rate target, it cannot have an exchange rate target, but it is responsible for financial stability. If the forint deteriorates at this rate, then it is clearly a threat to financial stability, and it is necessary to intervene, and the basic rate of the central bank must be increased. However, if it raises the central bank's core interest rate, then it also means that so far preferential borrowers, who have taken up their loans with low profitability, may face problems, may fall into some investments, or that next year's economic growth is obviously based on it, and this can be seen in the MNB documents that they count on 12-15 percent increase in loans, the engine of which is obviously low interest rates or guaranteed interest rates. Therefore, if significant interest rate increases are made, it is obvious that this increase in interest should be passed on to economic operators, and then that is a problem, or there will be another financing item for the State, but this will certainly raise serious problems. With regard to inflation, the government said that inflation was 2.7 per cent. The MNB did not confirm this either, the MNB expects inflation to be around 3 percent in the following year. So this forecast is too optimistic. It is likely that inflation will be higher, all the more so, because, for example, the GDP deflator is 3.7 percent, and then the European Union is counting around 4 percent inflation on the Hungarian economy when calculating purchasing power parities. This means that there is already more than 3 percent inflation in the system at the moment, and this will increase even later. In the context of inflation, it is worth mentioning one thing, and here I am also beginning to adapt to the spirit of the place, and I say that underestimating inflation or reviving actual inflation is an old Bolshevik trick, because it is. As a younger economist, I examined this issue myself. When they were MSZP-SZDSZ governments, the trick was that during the fiscal planning period a lower inflation was expected, while they knew that inflation would actually be higher. This is a positive thing in terms of budgetary balance, in terms of balance, because if budget expenditure is adjusted to low inflation during the planning period, these are fixed. If inflation is actually higher, the result will be that the real value of these expenditures will decrease, but revenues will increase nominally, because revenues are not fixed because revenues are linked to income or consumption in the form of taxes and consequently increase in proportion to the level of inflation. At the time, I calculated that every one-percent underestimate of inflation could lead to a half-point improvement in budgetary positions. This in itself might even be an apology, but it is worth pointing out that the inflation tax resulting from the spin of inflation will hit the poor much more strongly than the better, because they are forced to keep most of their income in the form of money. With regard to the debt-to-GDP ratio, it is included in the budget that it falls to 70,3%, i.e. it meets the debt criterion, from 72.9 percent. It is not clear to me how this came out, because together with Eximbank in April 2018 it was 74.2, but this may still fit in. But here, as a risk, it is very important to mention the Paks expansion. If the Paks expansion will indeed go through on credit, it can mean that debt will increase by 2-3 percent per annum in proportion to GDP, and the question is whether GDP can keep pace because this type of investment has no positive multiplier effect, so it will not produce in the short term the GDP that would be needed here as compensation. With regard to the structure of public finances, I would like to say a few things very briefly. One thing is that the proportion of welfare functions did not increase, 55 percent. Here it has been said that health expenditure will increase in real terms next year, but not in education. This highlights something very important. From what the Secretary of State of Rétvár said, it has become clear to me that an old solution is beginning to be outlined here again, and this is the next one. In recent years, the government has done so, while noting that there is a significant waste of education and health systems, and in certain areas I stress, of course, that in some areas, it is rapidly and strongly that, in other areas, chronic, strong and hurtful deficits - and consequently, from 2011 onwards, from the Széll Kálmán Plan, it has reduced the level of health and education supply in real terms of its real value. And now, when he senses that there is a real problem in both areas and there is great discontent, he is now trying to pursue an enabling policy. It's the old one, pull it, let it go! He's going to go into a type of operation and ignore the underlying problem. The basic problem is that education and health are also areas for reform, an area where systemic reforms should have been carried out, compared to this, only centralisation has taken place in both areas, which, by the way, results in the government deciding to significantly increase health and education expenditure in the current situation, unfortunately, the bad news is that the positive results of this will not be very good. [[10.50]] After all, you put more and more money into a bad system, even though you're trying to raise wages, even if you're trying to bring some relief. Of course, in the short term, this obviously has a positive signal effect, but there will be no substantial change until it is committed to the very important task of transforming the health and education systems in their entirety and making them much more efficient so that deficits and surpluses do not appear together. The state spends 18% of its total expenditure on its operational functions, it's a pretty prestigious, big sum, and it's growing compared to recent years. This indicates that bureaucracy is very large and that this over-centralisation has been observed in recent years, that there has been significant centralisation in all areas. There is only one worse situation in international comparison, this is economic functions. It spends about 20 percent of the total expenditure on economic functions, about one third higher than the average of the European Union. This also suggests how strong market economy operations will then be, because it is perhaps even more important to spend 20 percent of the total expenditure on economic functions, but this is not in restructuring or modernisation, but rather in support of domestic and foreign large companies. This was already visible in the previous government period, but this could then also be documented, because it was possible to access the data of the NAV at that time and to see how significant the state support of the large company circle was. Now it is only possible to guess, but this figure shows that this aid is significant, which obviously weakens the functioning of the market. As regards the revenue of public finances, what has also been said here is that the philosophy is that it is mainly trying to increase payments related to consumption and retail payments. Based on the number of the State Audit Office, it can be seen that the share of payments related to consumption increased from 56.8 per cent to 59 per cent compared to 2017, the proportion of public contributions will also increase from 25 per cent to 26.4. In itself, this could be a philosophy and a vision to try to put the corporate sphere in a favourable position, and thus to keep more resources in business, to turn this into a virtue. Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to see how this has an increasing effect on production, how these measures have increased competitiveness or export capacity over the past period. Today, it can still be seen that the supply of the corporate sector is so inelastic that a surplus of 2.5 per cent of GDP is needed to achieve a one-percent economic growth. So you can't see a breakthrough in this area either. Of course, this type of income is also unfair, because low-income people are much more burdened than high-income people, since low-income people have a much higher share of total income, since high-income people have significant savings, so the already strong primary inequalities are strengthened even more by this. In fact, there is a lack of consideration here that the performance and competitiveness of a country is not determined by the level of its elite, but by the level of its average. Therefore, Hungary will only be able to undergo a qualitative change, only if it strengthens its middle class, because the weakness of the middle class is, in fact, an obstacle to short-term growth, but certainly also to medium- and long-term economic growth. So it would be very important for the government to be able to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-28-24	Thank you very much. Imre Ritter, Member of the Nationality, could have spoken if Secretary of State Kontra had not checked in on behalf of the Government, so I ask the Member to understand that, according to the house rules, the government has priority. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-28-25	Thank you very much. I, too, ask for patience and allow me to react very briefly to the comments of Mr László Keresztes, Member of Parliament, in which he has also made his contribution on the management of the municipalities. I would like to say that basically the government's aim is that the government cooperates closely with the municipalities in order to develop the settlements, and the government's aim is to strengthen and improve the Hungarian settlements, so in this 2019 budget bill, the Ministry of Interior planned a total of HUF 737.3 billion for tasks and development related to the municipalities - which represents an increase of more than HUF 30 billion compared to the 2018 budget. I think this song speaks for itself. As regards the government's debt and debt, it should be stated that this debt was made in the period 2002-2010, so that I could express myself, and in order to maintain the functioning of the system, the government launched its debt consolidation programme, which was based on the fact that the government took over HUF 1370 billion from the municipalities at several paces. In 2011, the county authorities totalled HUF 197.6 billion, in 2012 it represented HUF 1730 for settlements under five thousand, in 2013 for settlements above five thousand, in 279 forints 61.4 billion, and in 2014 for the remaining total debt, this represented 512 settlements, and in total it amounted to HUF 472.3 billion. In all these four years, the government took over 1369.1 billion forints from the municipalities, and thus freed the municipalities from the debt burden, they could start a clean slate of the work they had done for the people living in those settlements. Let me also draw attention to the fact that, during the 2010-2014 term, the parliament adopted a new law on the municipalities of Hungary and, in parallel with the debt consolidation, the financing of the local government's tasks was also transformed. Based on the experience of recent years, this task financing system has proved to be successful, and in order to prevent further indebtedness, the borrowing and issuing of bonds by municipalities has been limited. The legislative background of this has been accepted by Parliament, and the government is implementing it, but this is definitely an important condition in order to ensure that the local government's debt does not occur again. On the other hand, it is an important guarantee that Parliament adopts a budget that ensures this. This is why I could say that in the 2019 proposal there is 30 billion HUF more resources available to municipalities. It is undisputed that the borrowing and issuing of bonds by local governments are subject to strict legal conditions, and this is a guarantee that this debt cannot happen again. On the other hand, the Member also affected debt through municipal companies. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as of 1 January 2015, a new element was added to the scope of authorised borrowing commitments, thus requiring the borrowing of 100% government owned companies to be subject to a government licence. I think it is also a significant guarantee in terms of the process of debt and debt, although, of course, it contributes to this, and it is also necessary for the municipalities to carry out responsible management, which I believe is provided. It is also an important condition for the budget to provide the municipalities with conditions such as those set out in this 2019 proposal. [[11.00]] I believe that it is also a very important task for the municipalities and Parliament to contribute, under their responsibility, to ensuring the highest level of public services for those living in those settlements. I believe that this proposal is in line with it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-28-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Then Imre Ritter, Member of the national minority, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-27	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlages Nr. T/503. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen heute ausführlich erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position today on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, on behalf of the Central Budget for 2019, T/503. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. Intermediately, I would like to apologize for not being in the Chamber during the speech by Mr Zoltán Demeter on nationalities, but I was at a House Committee meeting. According to my fellow speakers, he correctly informed Parliament of the nationality aids already included in the proposal for a Budget Law No 19. Thank you for that. I concluded my speech yesterday by consulting the national governments, the national minority advocates and the parliamentary factions and the purses responsible for nationalities in advance with the nationalities' budget requirements for 2019. On this basis, 13 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 5 billion HUF 120 million amendment to the 2019 draft budget in the following five focus areas. 1. Nearly half of the funding needs, exactly 49 percent, HUF 2 billion 520 million are used to ensure the investment and renovation of the buildings and buildings of the institutions maintained by the national authorities. 2. In the case of national minority authorities and media, we propose a 20% increase in operating grants and 10% increase in their reserved institutions. Here again, there was no increase in support for national minority self-governments and their reserved institutions in 2018. 3. 30 per cent of the support needs are the second step of the national education programme launched in 2018, according to which the nationality allowance is increased from 15 to 30 per cent, and we provide a specific framework for increasing the number and improvement of the quality of the education of national children's educators. This means a total of HUF 1 billion and HUF 530 million. 4. We want to spend 8 percent of our needs, 405 million forints for ethnic associations, organisations and schools, to increase the ethnic tender framework. 5. Finally, we would like to increase the operating support of local ethnic authorities by 10 percent, amounting to HUF 188 million. In today's speech, I would like to explain the detailed justification and justification of the national minority education programme, the national minority funding framework and the support needs of local minority self-governments. In my speech tomorrow, I would like to mention the increase in the operating support of the institutions maintained by national minority authorities and the media, as well as by national minority authorities, and the increase in the support of the institutions reserved by the national minority authorities for the provision of an investment and renovation tender part. At the same time, I would like to make it clear once again that 49 percent of the national minority budget needs for 2019 are specifically investment, renewal, a 30% increase in the bonus for national educators and support for kindergarten educators, an increase of 8 percent also affects the students of primary schools of nationality, ethnic associations, i.e. 87 percent of all ethnic needs are investments in the sustainable future of nationalities in Hungary, and only 13 percent is the operating support of national and local minority self-governments. Here again, I would like to point out that national minority self-governments did not receive any increase in support in 2018. So the 13 nationalities ask for budget support for 2019, not for the operation of their local governments, so to speak, but for themselves, but for the future of our nationalities, for the maintenance, development of our institutional infrastructure, for the education, education and education of our children. I think these are fundamental, clear facts of principle that must be recorded before the details are analysed and discussed. And then I would like to turn to the analysis and justification of the specific aid needs. Firstly, I would like to talk about a 10% increase in the operating support of local minority self-governments, as this is only 3.7 percent of all needs. I would like to refer back to the fact that, on average, the support of local ethnic authorities was only HUF 222 thousand per year in 2014, which was equivalent to HUF 14 500 per month net. I would like to say again, in 14 the support of national minority governments was on average 14 500 forints per month. During the last four-year cycle, this support was raised to HUF 470 thousand in the national minority self-governments of the minority settlements under 50, to HUF 940,000 in the minority self-governments of the settlements over 50. For your information, if a member of a nationality has declared himself to be a member of the national minority under 50 people in the 2011 census, they will receive half as much support as more than 50 people have claimed to belong to a nationality. Even in 2018, we planned a 30 percent increase, of which we were finally able to achieve 20 percent. Therefore, this 10 percent increase is actually the settlement of the planned and missed increase in 2018. Just so that everyone is aware of the scale, I would like to stress that this 10 percent increase in minority self-governments with a population of over 50 people is 94 thousand forints per year, 783 thousand forints per month. forints, 47 thousand forints per year, 3917 forints per month, less than 4000 forints per year in settlements under 50. I don't think there's anything more to say. The second area in which we have envisaged an increase in aid is the so-called national funding framework. It is the responsibility of the national minority tender frameworks to provide operational support to national civil society organisations, to support national cultural programmes and to provide for the cost of camping children of nationality in a mother tongue environment. In my speech yesterday, I have already said that we have made significant progress in this area over the past four years, but we have started with a level of almost zero that we are still far from what we can reasonably expect. I would also like to anticipate that we are talking about aid which is at 100% intensity, so that it is not necessary in principle to secure a self-reliance, and this is also entirely justified, since national authorities, national minority associations, national minority public education institutions who can apply for this support have no substantial own resources, so they cannot have their own self-reliance. [[11.10]] However, on the basis of the 2017 tender data, the final data for 2018 are not yet available, but there was no substantial shift in the actual situation as follows. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Forints 350 million were available to support the operation of the ethnic associations, 31 percent of the legitimate demands were met against the HUF 1 billion received. In the case of ethnic cultural programmes, HUF 1 billion was accepted against the HUF 350 million tender framework, with 26 percent of legitimate needs being assessed. In the case of national minority mother tongue student camps, the HUF 790 million bid was accepted against the 360 million framework, with 46 percent of the accepted needs being accepted. I would like to note here that, in the case of operating support for national minority associations and support for national cultural programmes, it is possible to bring up the well-known sentence that, for applications, the world's money is not enough, anyone can enter any amount into the application. In parentheses, I think that this is not typical of us Hungarian nationalities, but, in the case of minority mother tongue student camps, it is absolutely objectively and numerically measurable how many ethnic schools there are, how many ethnic classes there are, how many ethnic children there are, and how much the sum of a five to seven-day ethnic student camp in a native language environment is, whether or not, plus or minus 10 percent. It can also be objectively demonstrated how many primary ethnic schools there are that have not applied at all, typically Klebersberg, which is a primary school of nationality with a state reserve. There's a reason for that, too, which I wouldn't comment on. On this basis, it is my responsibility to say that, over the past four years, the camping framework increased by 30 million times, increased by more than 13 times, is still sufficient for only about one third of legitimate needs. A Harvard is enough to allow all children of ethnicity in Hungary to reach a 5-7-day ethnic mother tongue student camp once during the 8 years of primary school. It is clear that the increase in support is justified in all circumstances, and it is a first priority for the children and grandchildren of nationalities in Hungary to retain and return the mother tongue of nationality. We're talking about 80,000 ethnic children. The third area is the national minority educator's programme, which started in 2018 in the case of an increase in funding, which includes on the one hand the training of national children's educators, as well as the increased recognition and maintenance of ethnic educators. The results of the 2017 surveys carried out in the national minority preschools have already been described in detail in the 2018 budget debate, and I would like to make only a few summary comments. As an introduction, eight out of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary have registered national minority kindergartens. These are: Croatian, German, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian; five ethnicities: Bulgarian, Greek, Polish, Armenian, Ukrainian, or rather, they do not have an official nationality kindergarten. The situation of the 8 nationalities with national minority pre-schools registered as institutions differs in many respects, depending on their location in Hungary, how far they are from the mother country, how much of the population of the national minority is, and so on. Thus, there are also common points on the issue of national minority kindergartens, but also specific features, tasks and problems per nationality, as in most ethnic issues, so not all nationalities can be given the same template solution for all problems. In addition, the Roma in Hungary are also in a particular situation compared to other nationalities, since while other nationalities try to bring children together in smaller or larger national nursery schools and provide them with ethnic education, in the case of Roma children, in some Roma kindergartens the problem of segregation can arise at any time. The minority kindergarten teacher project covers educators of all eight ethnic kindergartens, regardless of maintenance. I would now like to present the problem and its foundations with the results of the survey on German ethnic preschools, as German national preschools account for more than 50% of all preschoolers. Between October 2016 and February 2017, all 215 German national nursery schools were fully evaluated and the data verified. According to the Public Education Act, there are two types of kindergarten. One is the mother tongue of nationality, where education is conducted exclusively in the language of nationality. From 215, only one in Valeria Koch, Pécs, and there has been only German-language education for just three years. The other 214 kindergartens are taught in two languages. According to the Public Education Act, children receiving nationality education in bilingual national preschools should be treated in more than half of their education time in ethnic languages, which means that both kindergarten teachers working in ethnic groups should have a degree in nationality. The 215 German national minority kindergartens, in 568 ethnic groups, would require 1136 kindergarten teachers, whereas the actual number is 662, i.e. 474 persons are missing, 41.7 percent of the required number is missing, and essentially every other German ethnic teacher is missing. If we break down the aggregate data for kindergartens, there are only 33 out of 215 kindergartens, where ethnic groups have 2 ethnic kindergarten teachers, this is 15.4 percent of all kindergartens, which means that every seventh German kindergarten has personal conditions for statutory nationality education. On this basis, it should be said that, on the basis of the minority kindergarten teacher's education, it is not possible to pursue an adequate level of ethnic education in around two thirds of German national preschools. This situation has been felt for a decade and a half; in the last two or three years, the withdrawal effect of the large German language teaching shortage in Austria and Germany has been drastically accelerated. With regard to German nationality, there is also a serious risk that there is no higher education course in Austria and Germany, so graduate students from Hungarian universities and colleges are expected to attend the German National School of Kindergarten Education with open faculties, with multiple salaries. Based on the data surveyed and processed by national authorities, there are also problems with the provision of national kindergarten educators, with a deficit of nearly 100 children. So 550 people per 8 nationalities. The current situation is a fundamental threat to the long-term functioning of national nursery schools. Based on the discussions and discussions with 7 universities and colleges, currently around 100 people can be optimally trained for the basic education of national kindergarten educators each year, and about 60 people could be trained annually for the complementary education of Hungarians with basic qualifications in the eight ethnicities concerned. The task is double. On the one hand, with a contract of scholarship for students in the field of national pre-school education, it is necessary to create a situation for students to apply for a maximum number of primary education courses in the field of nationality kindergarten teachers; to make national kindergarten schools interested in sending their kindergarten teachers of a nationality with a basic Hungarian degree; and to support training institutions at such a level as to ensure the personal and material conditions of a sufficient number of quality basic and supplementary education courses of nationality. [[11.20]] On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that the ethnic teachers currently on the field stay on the course, perhaps the early leavers will return, suggesting a 100 percent increase in the nationality allowance. We were able to take the first step of this minority educator program, from 10 to 15 percent in 2018, and now we should take the second step from 15 to 30 percent in 2019. And for those who benefit from this, those are children of nationality, more than 27 thousand pre-school children who receive national minority education, and nearly 85 thousand young people who receive primary and secondary education. In total, we are talking about the future of more than 112 thousand children and young people who have received national education, ensuring their national rights. On behalf of children of ethnicity in Hungary, I thank you in advance for your understanding and kind support. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2018-06-28-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have an independent Congresswoman Bősz Anett to speak. I'll give you the floor in a ten-minute time frame.
u2018-06-28-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Mihály Varga also spoke about the role of women in the family on Tuesday. He said that the possibility of retirement after 40 years, the survival of the child and the child, all help the situation of women and acknowledge what they do for their families. On the other hand, the government does not realise that the situation of women in our country is largely uncertain because of discrimination. In the free world, most children are born where equality between women and men is more secure. Most children are born where women can feel safe in their work as in their social situation. Most children are born where the state provides financial and other incentives for fathers to take part in early childcare, i.e., using Hungarian language, they too. This is an area where public transfers make sense, because in the medium to long term, it has a beneficial effect that transforms society as a whole. It is empirically proven that such a system reduces discrimination against women in the labour market, and employers will thus not price childbearing, either in terms of pay for women or their opportunities to move forward. Another advantage is that it improves the balance sheet statistics of unpaid work in the long term. In Sweden, this effect even reduced the number of divorces. Minister also said that Hungarians' real wages have been growing for 63 months. The question is when the quality of your life will improve. In the Hungarian labour market, unfair employer behaviour is not effectively screened by any institution. The return of mothers to the labour market, contrary to the government's claim, is often deeply humiliating. It would help demographic trends if the labour market did not label mothers and women who are expected to have children as unreliable workers. The state has a role to play in this, not to expect as many children as possible to make promises in the form of welfare transfers. The government says that Christian democracy is based on family, but you're just pretending to do things for families. In Hungary, the dignity of millions of women is lost as a result of childbearing. In a liberal democracy, due to the application of state-of-law standards, such discrimination and similar discrimination has legal consequences. Unfortunately, this often does not even arise in our country, although discrimination is always a serious infringement. The establishment of legal aid centres for non-discrimination should not keep you waiting. Flexible working time and home work should be a fundamental option for workers' rights. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Lords and Secretary of State, If you are serious about the year of families, redistribute budgetary resources for the application of the principle of non-discrimination, for the enforcement of workers' rights, and pay particular attention to encouraging equal sharing between children's parents. The flexibility of supply systems cannot be excluded from all of this, especially with regard to the schedule of daycare facilities and the schedule of all institutions that help young parents find a balance between work and family. The state has a role to play in all of this. I would like to emphasise once again, not that, with the promise of state transfers, you expect as many children as possible to be taken up. Young families, young mothers, need to feel safe, know that they can't lose their positions, they won't earn less for having children. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-28-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, Democratic Coalition.
u2018-06-28-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to take these two minutes to either link myself to some of the opinions that have been expressed here this morning or to discuss what has been said so far. We all know from the budget that it is also a value choice. It doesn't matter what you support, what you want to contribute, what you help, what processes or what you block. In order to judge this well, I see that you have chosen the argument that you are projecting everything you have presented here today in this budget for a period of global economic crisis. So, for a dramatic situation, they're trying to show you something you're gonna do. Dear gentlemen, the situation you are doing is not like 2008 but compared to 2017. The fact that we don't have any data or anything, you're classified, but in essence, you're going to have to classify this crisis as your situation. It also includes making people pay the world's highest taxes, the general sales tax. And some of you have responded with pride, and some of you have agreed to do so. That's what I said. It's a value choice. Just, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter that out of the pension of less than HUF 100,000, out of HUF 80,000, 27 percent of those who have so much pension pay will pay VAT to you, and it's quite different to do so on a million-dollar salary, which you are about to vote on in these laws. That is why we say that this is unacceptable, and this choice of value is yours, and we do not identify with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2018-06-28-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2018-06-28-33	Mr President, Dear House, While this government is world champion with a 27 percent VAT duration It is clear that the income of corporate tax is slightly more modest than the income expectations of VAT, starting from child-rearing articles to a wide range of basic foods. Next year, the government plans HUF 399.5 billion in revenue on this channel, i.e. in terms of corporate tax, while it expects some HUF 4286 billion in revenue from VAT. The question is whether the government sees no disproportion in this area, as it irons brutally high amounts with brutally high VAT keys, typically from the Hungarian population. However, it can also be said that, by means of the corporate tax amendments, multinational companies operating here typically pay significantly less tax than would be justified in order to obtain public burdens. In addition, it caresses these multinationals with the government's strategic contracts and provides them with non-refundable support, with job creation grants and infrastructure investments in a volume that often covers the total wage mass of the recruited workforce. So, in an amazing and self-destructive way, instead of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, this government is supporting multi-company companies with a tax rate that is almost halfway offshore. [[11.30]] That is why the question arises as to whether they are willing to change this practice. My recommendation is to renegotiate your strategic contracts. These should include at least a slow approximation of the wages of Hungarians to the so-called Western average and involve the multi-enterprises in public burdens. If the impact of this were to be seen on the draft budget, it would have a range of hundreds of billions of forints, such as the amount to be spent to counter the Hungarian demographic emergency age. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-28-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal on Hungary's central budget for 2019 is the most significant proposal discussed by the new Parliament, which was established in May. If I count this correctly, this is the fourth draft budget that we will discuss and accept in the first semester, I would also say that in the spirit of predictability. It is important to discuss this bill in this House on the part of every faction, as it is one of the most important rights and even the most important obligation of legislation. But we also know what has been said several times in this morning's debate that we are not only talking about numbers, not only about the equality or equation of income and expenditure, but also about the economic and social policy of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, In our rapidly changing world, too, the budget should reflect our core values and priorities among the objectives. We have also heard several times from my fellow Members that, as in previous years, the expansion and strengthening of support for families are at the heart of the government's actions in 2019. Our common goal is to make Hungary a family-friendly country, and that is why we have decided to introduce family taxation in almost Europe. So the government is committed to encouraging childbearing, extending support for families raising children, and improving the quality of life of families. Therefore, thanks to the strengthening of Hungary's economy, the government can take all measures to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. We see that the 2019 budget provides a significant source for, for example, the protection of borders, of course, in support of the defence, so that Hungary can respond timely and effectively to possible external threats or terrorist threats or illegal migration. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the drivers or guarantees of economic growth is the fastest possible use of EU funds. Therefore, as we have seen in recent times, this has been a priority for the government. As Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, allow me, fellow Members, to briefly speak about the EU's relations with the budget. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] Although I note that, in addition to the current debate on the budget, we had the opportunity to talk about it twice a year on the government's initiative in the context of a political debate. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister pointed out yesterday in his exposé, the Hungarian economy has been on a stable and balanced growth path since 2013. I believe that the bill before us confirms the importance of financial discipline and a secure budget. I note, fellow Members, that financial discipline is a very important EU requirement. Maastricht's criteria for the general government deficit-to-GDP deficit and government debt high expectations [[Gergely Harvesto: Sit over here, on our side.]] stand up against the Member States. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me, my fellow Member, to make a brief speech, and then I would like to talk in the corridor. [[Gergely Harvesto: Here you go. Szabolcs Szabó intervenes as he strikes the table.]] We see that Hungary has been a member of the Union for 14 years, but it has been able to meet the government deficit of less than 3 per cent for only 5 years. Just because of the Orbán government at the time, our country was released from the stage of shame in 2013, from the excessive deficit procedure, and since 2016 the European Commission has also recognised that there are no processes leading to macroeconomic imbalances. The bill, as we have seen, calculates a deficit of 1.8 per cent in 2019, which, I might say, covers a zero operating budget, i.e. the balance of our budget, excluding interest expenditure, will be positive. As a result of the low deficit, public debt can also be reduced in a stable way, as the planned 68 percent level is below the 60% threshold. Otherwise, debt reduction is also a matter of our constitutional obligation and of a kind of sovereignty, so it is essential that the share of foreign exchange debt in the sovereign debt mix is gradually reduced and the public's participation in the financing of public debt is increased. Ladies and gentlemen, As we've seen, the bill is 19th. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). The government also concluded a partnership agreement with the Union, and it is well known that EU support per capita is one of the highest in Hungary, if I recall correctly, EUR 300 per person per year. Hungary has HUF 12,000 billion in EU funding, of which HUF 7600 billion is the cohesion development resource and HUF 1300 billion is the rural development resource. What we see is that the government has sought to make the EU's tender opportunities available as soon as possible. You give fast, you give twice, we say. By the end of the first quarter of 2017, we announced the total amount of EU funding available, i.e. HUF 9300 billion, and in 2018 we managed to cover the entire framework with a commitment. This is also important, ladies and gentlemen, because 60 percent of development resources envisage an increase in employment and competitiveness. Using the term used by our Slovak friends, the draft budget proposes, with a view to extorting or exhaustion of EU funds, so-called top-up appropriations that can be exceeded by a government decision, which will continue to ensure that there is no financial or regulatory barrier to the rapid and efficient use of EU funds. Dear House, By 2019, the bill will contain a number of titles for EU development. Cohesion and rural development programmes are the most important items. This is about a total development of HUF 2000 billion, of which HUF 1482 billion is the EU resource and nearly HUF 500 billion is the central budget. However, we must not forget the payments here, as Hungary has been continuously contributing to the financing of the EU budget since 2004. About 71 percent of the contribution is expected to be around HUF 350 billion, with a gross national income contribution of HUF 274 billion and 12 percent of the VAT-based contribution of HUF 52 billion. [[11.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, In my constituency, in Abaúj and Zemplén, I would be able to report on a number of EU projects with EU support. Of these, I would just mention the national castle and castle programme, which does develop the tourist attraction of the region, and the number of tourists who have visited here has already increased demonstrably. Or here is another important IKOP project for electrification of the Tátaljaújhely railway line in connection with infrastructure investments. This HUF 23 billion is a huge sum, but I believe that we can start this in time and finish it in time. With the full commitment of development resources, so during the implementation of EU projects, I could also say that we are on track, so that Hungarian citizens can feel the benefits and benefits of this as soon as possible. All this, I believe, is also due to the fact that, in contrast with previous practice, the vast majority of resources will not be paid and used at the end of the EU period. For example, next year, the focus will shift from advance payments to the use of the money, so that in 2019 the volume of annual payments will decrease slightly, but there will be a greater proportion of the funds to be recovered in part and in whole, which, in the long term, will be able to provide a secure funding base for businesses. What we see, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is important not only to look at the budget figures alone, but also to look at the future budget of the European Union, the 2020-27 financial framework. It is important to take a look at it, as the European Commission published a proposal last month on the EU's multiannual budget after 2020. I believe that the briefest way to describe the EU's seven-year budget is that, while the domestic one-year budget is a budget for families and security by next year, the Brussels seven-year proposal is more of a budget for migration and richer regions. The establishment of the EU budget after 2020 is undoubtedly a major challenge for the entire European Commission, the European Union. Here's the Brexit, for example. It is known by everyone that this is a loss of 10-12 billion revenue per year. The additional costs also occur in the area of security and defence policy. There should also be an opportunity for future enlargement in the Western Balkans, with additional costs. Hungary's position: the expected loss of revenue and the coverage of new challenges due to Brexit should not be done to cut traditional EU policies, i.e. at the expense of cohesion and the common agricultural policy, but should be partly secured by so-called additional contributions from Member States. Given the details of the multi-annual budget of the European Union after 2020, I think it is safe to say that unfortunately this proposal cannot address or solve new challenges at the same time and the effective financing of traditional policies. If we want to describe the multiannual financial framework, I would say that there is much less money for cohesion purposes and much more money for migration, and that the financial proposal transfers funds to the benefit of the southern EU Member States at the expense of the Central European Member States. It is therefore expected that less money will be allocated to the EU Member States, and indeed not only will the size of the cake be smaller, so to speak, but also changes in its distribution are proposed by the European Commission, which do not benefit the Central European Member States, which have made spectacular progress in recent years. For the Hungarian, Czech, Estonian and Lithuanian cohesion envelope, the rate of decrease would be around 24 per cent in the current situation. What do we see? On the other hand, thanks to the increase in cohesion resources for Spain, the amount of aid could increase by 5%, i.e. to EUR 34 billion, and to the Greeks by a maximum of 8 percent, to EUR 19 billion. I believe that this is contrary to the EU rule that was established precisely because of cohesion policies. This is unacceptable not only for the Visegrad Four, but also for the other Baltic countries. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's proposal is also detrimental to us in many other details. The amount of cohesion envelopes would be reduced to EUR 5.7 billion compared to the current one, i.e. from EUR 23.6 billion to EUR 17.9 billion after 2020. Here is the national co-financing, which would significantly burden the national budget with an increase in its share. The time available for resource use would be reduced, which is also not beneficial to us. 65 percent of the remaining cohesion support should be allocated to the objectives that the Commission is required to set. This would therefore reduce the free-to-use framework of the Member State. The Commission's budget proposal, I believe, clearly assumes a kind of political will. Indeed, cutting funds on this basis would disproportionately affect Hungary and Europe's less developed regions, and changing the rules on the use of resources would place a significant additional burden on Member States. I would like to note that these news is nothing more alarming or worrying than those which appeared in the planning of the current financial perspective in 2012-13. At the time, the news was that Hungary and the other Central European countries are starting with a 30 percent loss of resources. Still, the government's activity came back. I am just reminding my fellow Members that this is when we set up the Friends of Cohesion, the Friends of Cohesion Group, in which we managed to include old Member States such as Spain or Portugal or France. So this is also a fundamental interest for us now that Hungary is not interested in a quick agreement, but in a detailed and negotiated favourable agreement. I believe the Visegrád Four are here, and the Baltic countries are here with us. This will give us the strength to conclude the negotiation of the budget in the European Union through successful negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Commission's objectives are diverse, such as changes in migration and border management, and the target area for long-term integration of migrants would be fully transferred to cohesion policies. I mean, what does that mean in English? That Brussels would use development money from Central European countries to integrate migrants into society. The Commission would increase the costs of migration and border management from EUR 13 billion to EUR 34.9 billion. However, this amount would translate not only into border protection or return, but also to greater support for migration and integration. As the main objectives of the asylum and migration fund with a higher budget are therefore to promote legal migration, relocation and resettlement, and to complete the common asylum system with compulsory resettlement, I believe it is not unfounded to state that fundamental philosophical and value differences can be identified between the budgets to be created in Budapest and Brussels. [[11.50]] In fact, I dare to risk that the Commission's budget proposal for asylum is contrary to decisions taken at the level of Heads of State or Government, because individual programmes would encourage migration and support the distribution of compulsory quotas. The Hungarian position also contradicts the fact that the integration of refugees would be financed from cohesion policies. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me also point out that the revenue side of the EU financial framework after 2020 would not remain intact. The so-called new own resources create a serious problem, as the EU would introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base for companies above EUR 750 million in revenue. This tax, representing 6 percent, would lead to the harm of tax sovereignty, so Hungary cannot support this either. Together with the other changes, the proposals on the revenue side in their present form would therefore amount to HUF 80 billion a year after 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, The government considers only payments based on gross national income to be fair and insists on this in the course of the negotiations in Brussels. On the Hungarian side, therefore, one of our priorities in these negotiations is to continue to provide adequate resources for the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. On these issues, however, Hungary is not alone, and many of the old Member States have also objected to the cuts of these subsidies, so we are confident about the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the EU's proposals and the related tasks facing the government, I believe that we can safely say that the proposal for a fiscal law before us is sufficiently ambitious and conservative, creating the possibility of progress next year, while taking into account all the risks that the Brussels decision-makers are planning. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Tamás Pintér, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2018-06-28-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The budget for cuts, the budget for security, the budget for losers, the budget for families. Many have called the 2019 budget in many ways, but I have not heard yet that this is a budget for Hungarian people. Since I have been a Member, I have always paid great attention to budgetary debates and the possibility of making amendments. I've been talking to people about this for the third year now, collecting their problems, looking for their problems, and watching how we can find solutions to their problems, because I want to see every budget for people's budgets, and I want us to solve their problems. For the third year, I have always looked forward to the debates, and perhaps, for once, the pro-government representatives will also take into account the problems of the Hungarian people, and they will hear their voice through us. Unfortunately, I have been constantly disappointed for two years, because I see that if the Member who is not pro-government, who is submitting the proposal, it is as if the problem did not exist, which we would like to find a solution to. For the third time, I am trying to make sure that the burning problems of the people in my district are heard by pro-government politicians and that we can solve them together. Unfortunately, so far, my proposals have always been swept away without thinking, and they have been formulated by a multitude of Hungarians who have consulted me. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] I trust this year will be different, and we will finally see beyond party interests. Why is this important, fellow Members? None of the 18 amendments I have tabled represent party interests, but only the interests of the inhabitants of Dunaújváros and its surroundings. There is no party interest in a proposal in which I ask for the reconstruction of the building of the Szilágy Elementary School in Dunaújváros. But it is also not a matter of party interest that the Golden Elementary School, which is also in our city, should stop leaks and solve insulation so that children do not have to study in their coats in winter. Furthermore, there can be no party interest in modernising the building of the Hild High School in Dunaújváros, the commercial high school, the Gárdony Elementary School, that the students are real XXI. Learn under centuries of age. A teacher recently approached me with such a case, who told me that the windows had to be nailed in the building of the Móra Ferenc Primary School, since they did not close and therefore no longer insulate. During the weekend, for example, they broke into school simply by pushing the window frame into the door, and they were already inside. In addition, there are constant leaks, so the situation has been untenable for years. Nor can it be a matter of party standing to paint a zebra in front of the two kindergartens in Adony, so that young children can safely cross the road. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of my proposals for these matters regardless of party standing, since they are all in the interests of Hungarian children. Ladies and gentlemen, How can this budget be about people and not about party interests at last? It's very simple. We have to listen to people's problems, we have to show people's wishes. I have been in the district for the third year, and besides the problems that have already been mentioned for schoolchildren and children, I also collect complaints from two-handed workers and seek solutions to make their lives easier. They formulated how easy it would be for them to go to work if the main roads of Dunaújváros, Vasmű út and Dózsa György út were renovated. The need for those who seek work is that their main road should also be renovated in a full section, and that we provide asphalted pavements for several unpaved roads in their settlement. The people of Pusztaszabolcs have asked me to make sure that their side roads are good and safe, as more than 36 kilometers of paved roads are still missing. I heard these requests, and that's why I submitted them to you, hoping for their support. Like me, the people in my district are hopeful, so they dared to dream big with me. My two largest drafts of my amending proposals are perhaps the most demanding ones. The town of Pusztaszabolcs is cut in half by railway tracks, so the crossing between the two parts of the city is difficult. For decades, the Szafarszabolcs have been asking both the city's leadership and the government to establish a secure, accessible subway under the railway track. This is not a party interest, but it is in the interests of the Szabadszabolcs, students, workers, parents and pensioners to achieve it. Another great demand, which I have also put forward in my proposal, is for the predictable transport of people in the region. Dunaújváros and its surroundings are industrial cities, and therefore the safe and predictable traffic route between the district and Budapest is extremely important. It is in the interest of a multitude of residents to establish a regular shipping service on the Danube, connecting us to the capital. In addition to boosting the tourism sector in the area, this would also solve the local housing of those working elsewhere, remedying the risk of emptying our settlements. This cannot be a party issue, as it is in the interest of thousands of people living there. In order for the 2019 budget to be the people's budget, it is necessary to talk to the older and therefore more vulnerable age group, the pensioners. In their interest, I submitted an amendment to the most common market in and around Dunaújváros in order to eliminate the Balkan conditions on the sidewalks and to renovate the platforms in order to ensure their transport safety. It is also in the interest of the elderly and sick people that the catastrophic windows of St. Pantaleon's Hospital in our city are finally replaced so that in winter the sick people do not have to heal in the wards in 10-15 degrees cold. [[12.00]] Finally, it is in the interest of thousands of young people, middle-aged and elderly people in Dunaújváros to finally restore public lighting in Dunaújváros. For our sake, we have presented my proposal to create a safe, constantly well-functioning lighting in our city, which is not for the benefit of the party, but for the benefit of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, How can the 2019 budget be the people's budget? By hearing them. By bringing their needs, which are intended to facilitate their everyday lives, into the draft and voting on them together. Believe me, the proposals made by me and my fellow Members serve the interests of the Hungarian people, not party interests. We would not spend it on stadiums, corruption-suspecting investments, unnecessary visual investment, but on solving the everyday problems of Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, We're not selfish either. In fact! I can say with courage that, together with my fellow Members, we will give you all our amendments, even with the name of the petitioner on the paper. I believe that the creation of such important drafts is not motivated by party interests. We are motivated by the interests of the Hungarian people, and we are driven by improving the lives of Hungarian people. That is why we are going to the settlements, and that is why we are talking to them so much, and that is why we are bringing their complaints into Parliament, in the budgetary debate. We can create the Hungarian people's budget by 2019, listening to them and taking into account their complaints. With all of this in mind, I would also ask you to support our proposals, regardless of party standing, because they represent the interests of the Hungarian people, not their party or my interests. It's our job, which, I think, is quite a lot. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-38	Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Member of the KDNP Group, will be speaking.
u2018-06-28-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget before us in the language of numbers expresses our creed honestly and fairly, what is important to our society, what is important to the Hungarian people. Obviously, appreciation can be achieved in our budget, as we are pleased to see family support expanding, full employment continues to aim, and there are serious results from the government, and we can count on a stable and growing economy. A few sentences from opposition representatives were said here in the morning hours. I would first of all like to respond to the one that said that this was a budget in haste; it was a criticism. I think the government has always demonstrated the wisdom of Sándor Márai, in which he does not commit either horizontal or vertical laziness. You must know this important thought from Sándor Márai, who said that vertical laziness is a serious mistake. This means that we have to make decisions every day, each one of us has a responsibility, who is smaller, who is bigger, but everyone has a responsibility in his personal life and in his family, obviously also towards our community and our national community; that is to say, to make daily decisions. Obviously, with horizontal laziness, Sándor Márai suggested that we should all set long-term strategic goals, because this is the way forward. If any of the mistakes were made, the cart of the country would indeed not go forward. But the country's chariot goes forward, it's the right thing to do, it has to be followed and continued. As a security policy politician, I am pleased to see that the government is sacrificing a great deal of security, because it is the foundation of everything. The state at hand needs to guarantee security for its citizens, precisely because security is a condition of prosperity. If there is no security, then there is no freedom. So I think this is an important objective, and it can be seen in the budget in the language of numbers. Let me also tell you that as a Christian Democrat politician, I know that every community, every human community, including the Hungarian Defence Force, always has the true strength of its spirit and faith. I also confess to St. Francis of Assisi that you should always preach the gospel, if necessary, with words. The apostle Paul's letter to the Ephesians tells you to put on God's full armor, for there are always dangers and troubles, and if we put on this complete armor, we will be better able to cope with life's challenges. The six weapons are the belt of righteousness, the shield of faith, the armor of justification, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the soul, and the ability of peace. Of course, in addition to these, it is necessary to provide the Hungarian Defence Forces with appropriate techniques and to increase their ability. This is what we need to strengthen, because this is the key to Hungary's security. Since the change of regime, the Hungarian Defence Forces have started to develop, and I think it is a pleasure for all of us. The volume of the defence budget shows a dynamic increase on the basis of current figures. We can also modestly say that although there is growth in all sectors, the scope of budgetary opportunities is increasing, but we can safely say that one of the winners of the 2019 budget is the Hungarian Defence Office. It's about time, because there's been a lot of delays over the past few years since the change of regime. The HM chapter's total expenditure increases by HUF 85.5 billion compared to 2018, from HUF 427.3 billion to HUF 512.8 billion. This shows an increase of nearly 20 percent and an increase in resources. We have committed to NATO that by 2024 we will spend 2% of the gross domestic product on defence and military expenditure. This is a significant expansion, it will increase more than double, and the defence budget will go up to over 1000 billion if we can keep this up. But obviously the goal is clear and clear. The current budget will also give priority to development, as nearly HUF 150 billion will be available for development tasks in the draft for next year's funding. The increasing resources allow us to continue our programme of defence and military development of Zrínyi, launched in 2017. The main development objectives are in the cyber defence area, in the field of air defence, in the development of armoured capabilities. The vehicle purchase programme must be continued, and further development of rigid wing and helicopter capability must also be achieved. I must say that all necessary developments in non-weapon cultures must be carried out. This increase in resources is scheduled and predictable to allow these improvements to take place. It's important to talk about soldiers. After all, soldiers must be valued. The soldiers are members of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and they are the Hungarian Defence Forces. If their spirituality is okay, if their individual equipment and clothing is okay, if they perceive their reputation, then they will stand up and strengthen Hungary's security through it. We have also begun to implement the concept of barracks development. It is planned to be about HUF 5 billion in next year's budget, as life and service conditions need to be improved. It is primarily designed to renovate the crew buildings in Tata, Kaposvár, Szentes, Debrecen. KDNP supports this to a large extent. In 2015, we started raising the salary of soldiers, and it is important that this be continued. It is included in the budget, and by 2019 the salary of soldiers will increase by almost 50 percent on average. This is very important, because through this we can express our appreciation and strengthen our ability to maintain. After all, when the economy is growing and thanks to God, the Hungarian economy is doing better and better, the labour market smokes well-trained soldiers. Therefore, in raising salaries, we must pay attention to ensuring a competitive salary, a competitive salary for soldiers, and by doing so we can keep them in line with their profession. It is also a priority to increase the number of people. This is also an important objective, and we support it on our part. And, of course, we have planned to revive the domestic defence industry and to develop it carefully. This process is also underway, and resources are also available. It is very important that social relations should be strengthened, as young people should be approached, the beauty of the military career and profession must be presented to them. After all, the protection of the country is a national matter, a common concern for all of us. And it's good to have someone on reserve, or even through the Defense Sports Federation, or in any other way in your heart, committed to protecting your country. We need to start this with our young people through defence education, through patriotic education. It is important, it is not a party policy issue, it is a shared responsibility of all of us, it is a joint matter, because we will leave the country to our young people at one time. It doesn't matter if it remains a Hungarian country and if it will continue to serve the life of the community by proper patriots. [[12.10]] Allow me one more thought about international tasks. It is very important that Hungary is a respected, recognised member of NATO since 12 March 1999, in many international missions, in thirteen and fourteen countries, on several continents, it is important that we continue to do so, through this we can strengthen Hungary's prestige, international authority in the international world and NATO. Based on what I have just mentioned, and looking at the budget, I can certainly see encouraging signs and guarantees, sufficient guarantees and predictability that the Hungarian Defence Forces will continue on the path to development. This is necessary, not for the sake of itself, but to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people at the highest possible level. We know that predictability brings stability, stability provides security for all of us, so I can say on behalf of KDNP that we support the budget, have set good goals in the government, and I hope that as many opposition representatives as possible will support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Lajos Korózs, the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, One of our fellow Members has asked the question here that everyone is somehow qualified for this budget, whose budget it is. One thing is certain: it is not the budget of the Hungarian people, but it is not the budget of the Hungarian workers, and it is not the budget of the Hungarian people. It is possible to see the trend that the Orbán government has gradually cut welfare expenditure in terms of welfare expenditure over the last eight years. At the height of 2010, the share of budget expenditure on welfare functions was well over 60 percent, and now it is down to 55 percent, but it is also apparent that the state is spending significantly more on its operation, on its own, than on welfare functions. This cannot be arranged, my fellow Members, by the fact that people live much better. Some people live much better, some families live much better, because it is also important to add that some families benefit only from family tax relief and not in general. In my speech, I would like to focus mainly on social affairs, all the more so, because I will also highlight some of the areas that I would like to detail. According to the budget documents submitted, according to the explanatory statement, the government's 2019 budget says that it is a budget for safe growth. I do not see such insane security in this, provided that the arms race that has been announced here, whether Minister Varga, I do not know what they are up to - or just now former Minister Simicskó or Secretary of State. I hope they're not preparing for war with this great weaponry. Next year, the government expects a 4.1 percent increase in GDP. I don't know if these numbers, which are planned in the budget, will be real in a month's time. I am referring to it because, as far as I know, this budget was designed at a price of 311 HUF, and if you went up to the National Bank's website this morning, it turned out that the exchange rate of the euro was above 327 HUF. We hope this will be lower, but it looks like the forint seems to fall in rather than stabilize itself. In addition, welfare functions, as I mentioned, are once again reduced on the basis of the table on consolidated functional expenditure of public finances. This year's 26 percent planned and then adopted figures show that 26 percent of GDP-related expenditure will not reach, and next year it will be even less than this year. This means fewer education, fewer health care, fewer pensions, social benefits, family support, unemployment benefits, culture and housing. I stress: I am talking about the distribution of GDP. In terms of the distribution of public expenditure, 55.4 percent of the total expenditure is still allocated to welfare functions. While spending on the services that constitute the functioning of the State is increasing again, as I have already pointed out, and the proportion of this, especially in terms of defence expenditure, while less in terms of social security and welfare services. I would like to emphasise that we are talking about the consolidated functional welfare expenditure of public finances, which is a payment approach. If we look at the rates of GDP, this budget will spend less on educational activity in proportion to GDP, less on health care, less on hospital activities, less on GP and pediatric services, just a little more on doctor's and dentist's services, but less on GP and pediatric services, less on social security and welfare services next year. It is important to mention housing and municipal and community activities and services, here too the state will spend less than the current one. It should therefore be mentioned globally, as I mentioned in the introduction, that it will also spend less on welfare functions. I have to mention in relation to education, although Ágnes Kunhalmi will talk about this in detail, that there is a chapter that assigns these budget subsidies to other educational functions. Here we see a reduction of 62 billion. I only highlighted this because it's a very serious item. With regard to family allowances, children, children and maternity allowances will remain unchanged for 11 years next year, nine years of which are planned by the Orbán government, and the amount of appropriations is likely to decrease in almost all cases due to the decreasing number of children. The family allowance will be reduced by nearly HUF 5 billion, the child will be reduced by almost HUF 800 million and the law will be reduced by more than half a billion forints. Maternity support shows some increase, some HUF 65 million, which is more due to the so-called umbilical cord program, so that Hungarian children born abroad can also benefit from this one-off maternity benefit, and it is not nearly a demographic turnaround in the country. Labour-related family allowances are indeed increasing, these are the bottom three lines in the table, if my fellow Members wish to follow this. With HUF 75 billion more for those with work, the increase in the family discount until 2019 will continue in 2018. For families with two children, the monthly tax allowance is increased to HUF 20,000. He wishes to mention that I said in my introduction that it is a good budget for certain families, but, my dear friends, some 80 percent of the family tax relief for children is used by families living in the top two income tenths. I would like to emphasise that in statistics, economics has a name for this, the Pareto principle, which is 20-80 percent. So I would like to stress that 80 percent of all the family tax incentives used in the two upper incomes are used in the statistics as quintiles, and there is no chance that the underprivileged get this benefit. The reference amounts for the baby bond remain unchanged, amounting to HUF 42 500 and HUF 44 600 respectively. As regards children's meals, there will be a reduction of HUF 330 million next year in support of institutional children's meals, as well as the support for the holiday meals of children in need and the institutional child's catering allowance, which will be added to the appropriations that will be added to this year. The latter will be part of the former, but it is thus not known exactly how much money is planned to support children living in poverty on holiday. Perhaps that was the aim of not being able to follow how much will be spent on this item in the future. It is certain that the rate of aid established on the basis of the tax capacity does not change, even in the case of the worst-cased municipality, up to HUF 570 per dose. It is certain that the new consolidated line is less than HUF 330 million. This year, if anyone follows this, the total amount of HUF 72.3 billion will be HUF 79 billion next year. [[12.20]] About pensions for a few sentences. Pension increases by 2.7 percent due to price-tracking indexation. The Orbán government has converted to this inflation-following pension raising technique, so the pension premium introduced by the MSZP government will be implemented for the third time next year. About HUF 24 billion has been set for this item. The one-time grant remains unchanged, staying at this year's level, 600 million forints. It's a frame amount, of course. For a pension based on equity, the total amount of HUF 200 million will be HUF 800 million for the equity pension increase next year, as it is this year. The reason why I am staying here is because it is clear that this inflation-following pension increase has been in practice for the eighth year now in Hungary. The fact is that if a person had a low pension last year and had to live on miserablely few pensions, with the technique of raising his pension following inflation, this guarantees that he will live miserablely with little money again next year. So it doesn't change a bit, because it only improves as much as the extent of the deterioration of the money. So you can preserve his condition. As a result, pensions are horribly separated from earnings. Thank God last year there was a nearly 12 percent increase in earnings in Hungary, but pensions have increased by a little less, we are talking about an inflation-following pension increase - so that pensions will be radically cut off from actions, and this will cause very serious social tensions and have already caused so far. Not to mention that there are terrible differences between pensions and pensions, which is why, as the same period of service, the same, in the past, is now being paid a tax on taxable income, with a corresponding contribution or tax, whether from the same occupational branch, or perhaps from the same job who is going to retire now, will have an increase in the amount of his initial pension than, say, two or three or four years ago. As a result, these income scissors will also be terribly open between pensions and pensions. So not only between wages and pensions, but also between pensions and pensions, this income scissor opens. I would like to stress that from the same profession, with the same amount of service, the pension of a pension that is now retired can be 30-40 thousand HUF higher than that of a pensioner who retired two or three years ago. If the method of raising the inflation-following pension remains, these income scissors will be even more open, especially to those who, thanks to God, have good health and expect a long life. Because the thing is, the healthier you are, the longer you'll live, but the longer you live as a pensioner, the worse you'll get. Didn't you, Mr. Secretary, follow? Or is he just playing solitaire? [[András Tállai responds by turning to Lajos Korózs.]] I'll continue, Mr. President. As far as social benefits are concerned, the majority of social assistance is unchanged or only calculated by an increase under the law, where there is a link to the increase in pensions. The basic amount of the care allowance will not change next year. I would like to note here that yesterday civil society organisations were protesting here before Parliament, listening to them, and my fellow Members, because quite an interesting way, only opposition representatives spoke to them, and we will be submitting amendments to the increase in the care fee. The basic amount of the care fee, as I said, will not change next year. Neither are the per capita allocations for public health care, although the appropriations for this purpose will increase by HUF 300 million. The funding for district aid will be reduced by HUF 332 million next year. I would like to emphasise that it is decreasing, radically, by HUF 332 million. The reference amounts of the regular child protection discount are also unchanged twice a year; inflation has remained unchanged for years, and a significant part has been eaten by inflation. There is no increase in the amount of the substitute parent's fee. There will be no more funding for the child protection housing fund for the future. The various social, social, civil and non-profit organisations, such as disabled organisations, cannot expect greater public support for the future. The promotion of the acquisition and transformation of disabled people is, of course, the same amount as this year's for the acquisition and conversion of motor vehicles. To support the employment of workers with disabilities, God will have more than HUF 2.6 billion next year. Only 146 million forints more will be spent on development. There will be no more future to support sign language, care for the homeless, support for autistic homes, homes for mentally ill and people with multiple disabilities, or to finance community benefits, street social work, crisis centre and the, Commissioner for Children's House. At the same time, it should be pointed out that it will be 30 billion forints more to support non-state human services for social purposes, and therefore not to support state-owned social services. The level of State aid for certain social services remains unchanged. In support of kindergarten and school social assistance activities, this will be called school social work next year 5.5 billion forints, which will be supported by the local government, which provides the Gyvt through its family and child welfare centre. social assistance activities in kindergarten and school. The annual amount of aid due to each municipality will have to be fixed by 30 November. This year the budget was HUF 1.4 billion. Summa summarum, my fellow Members, the 2019 budget is actually a budget for keeping the rich safe and the poor insecurity, as I referred to in my introduction. Despite the 4.1 percent increase, the government is not willing to spend more and less on welfare expenditure in proportion to GDP and even less on health, education, support for families, the unemployed and the elderly and the poor. If we take the budget lines into account, then we can see that it is really good for them again, and I am not surprised by the budget, who have income from work, everyone else is stagnating for the next year, unless their situation worsens. The poorest will not be better next year. Family allowance, child benefit, maternity allowance will be transferred to the same amount for the ninth year next year, people living in poverty, children's educators will still not benefit from economic growth. The pension premium system, which will be applied already this year, was introduced and enforced by the MSZP governments, and Fidesz now does nothing but apply the law under the conditions. In the next year's budget, hundreds of billions of people are going to make unnecessary investments, which is only good for sharing public money with their friends. Therefore, the socialists are certain that they will not support this budget law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-28-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Maria Kállai, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard this today that the 2019 budget presented by the government does need to be said about the budget for safe growth, when planning, the national government has to say about maintaining security, the growth of the economy, which is justified by the numbers, the facts - and the maintenance of the economy, the support of families and the full achievement of employment, to which I think the results of the last few years give rise in any way. I would like to highlight some nodes in this debate on education and some areas of culture. I'd like to start with public education first. In the field of public education, it is very important for us to make quality education available to everyone. Of course, I hope that in this room we can all be a priority to help the future players in the economy develop and improve their quality of life in any employment for those in the system themselves, students, teachers and careers. [[12.30]] A very serious, decisive public policy objective is the continued increase in the responsibility and responsibility of the State in education. Based on the draft budget, the government, as we see in the draft, intends to continue with the teacher II. and the qualification of a master educator and the qualification of a teacher who is qualified, directly assisting in educational and educational work. Back in the day, left-wing governments closed almost a thousand kindergartens and more than a thousand schools, and there were huge differences between schools depending on how a local settlement, a local government myself, could finance the institution in school. Meanwhile, in order to highlight only one, the prices of textbooks have, of course, also increased. If we look at the 2019 budget, we can see in the language of numbers that I think the figures and facts are quite impressive indicators - that we are raising the operating support of kindergartens from the current specific amount of HUF 81 700 per person per year to HUF 97 400 per person per year. It should also be noted that in order to improve the content of the 2019 budget, an additional 500 million will be added to the 2019 budget and that the purchase of tangible assets will be made available at this very important educational stage in order to provide the right professional service will be allocated another HUF 3 billion. Dear Parliament, Several figures and facts show that in the draft budget for 2019 there is a higher amount of resources available to carry out public education tasks in the following year than in 2018. Here it was said during the morning to compare numbers to ourselves. Well, these numbers are like ourselves. To justify it with a few things. Compared to the initial support allocation for 2018, the initial support for 2019 will increase from HUF 802.9 billion to HUF 851.1 billion, which represents an increase of 6 percent. I would like to introduce a few additions. One of them is HUF 7.1 billion for the Klebelsberg Center because of the educational career and qualification. The other HUF 7.6 billion is a surplus due to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. To continue the line in the language of numbers, HUF 0.9 billion will be added to support the Klebelsberg scholarship programme. Further significant items compared to the budget of the two years are the operating surplus of public education human services, HUF 36.1 billion, the surplus of faith and ethics and textbook support by 2019 is HUF 1.7 billion. This morning we discussed the values of the Unlimited Programme. The subsidy surplus is HUF 2.7 billion. The Router, which is also an extremely outstanding program in its professional content, is available with about HUF 0.7 billion and, as I said at the kindergarten, half a billion HUF more is available for development in kindergarten content than in the previous year. To make a big leap in age, a few highlights from higher education, as by 2019 the continued improvement and closerness of the sector's competitiveness, the better matching of economic and labour market needs, better enforcement, increasing the weight of technical, IT and scientific training, and, of course, the proportionate retention and subsequent development of other training areas, and further searching for solutions that help access to higher education. Meanwhile, it is important to pay attention to the transformation of the structure and content. This is all a very important issue, which can also be seen as a budgetary reflection of content issues. Of course, it is the responsibility and responsibility of this government to cause many billions of dollars of damage to the very unfavorable PPP structure imposed by left-wing governments. These constructions have caused a lot of damage to universities as well as to the Hungarian state, which is still our responsibility and task. Higher education should continue to provide higher education, research and development and innovation as an outstanding issue as part of domestic and international networks in the coming year. Of course, this will serve the development of talent, the training of replacements, economic and technological progress, and the development of science. It should be seen that the instrument for achieving these objectives is the priority support for students, doctoral candidates, teachers, researchers and the support of institutions on the basis of tasks and quality. The budget also provides funding for the research-related tasks of higher education institutions, as such consistently defined strategic coordination and proper implementation of system-level institutions will ensure a more effective involvement and effective functioning of the entire higher education system. The proposals of next year, as we can read, include significant improvements. For example, the renewal of the Institute for Physical Education of the University of Pécs, the renovation of the Venetian water sports facility of the University of Physical Education, the continuation of the operation of the Budapest Corvinus University's Future Capacity Research Centre, the wine science and research-development and teaching centre of the University of Debrecen, and a number of other developments that show in any way the idea of intent that the Government of Hungary is very serious about. A few more numbers, a few more facts. The extra funding for investment in universities and colleges will increase by HUF 20 billion on the basis of a government measure. The amount to be spent on the Stipendium Hungaricum programme will increase by HUF 1 billion. We spend 1.5 billion HUF more on funding training courses. The amount for the training and scholarship of doctoral students will increase by HUF 1.2 billion. Students' social scholarships under the HÖOK agreement will increase by HUF 1.7 billion. Finally, overall, in the case of higher education, 2018 to compare ourselves to ourselves was HUF 258.9 billion, HUF 287.6 billion in 2019, which represents an increase of 11.1 percent. I would like to express a few ideas about culture after some education, both in public education and in higher education, as the priority objective of this sector is, like the other strategic goals of the government, to achieve them, especially here, in the focus of strengthening families. The role of culture is very important in promoting social mobility, in general, in improving the quality of life, as I think we all agree that a good champagne, quality and meaningful cultural life is a force for improving quality of life in any settlement. A few highlights from cultural investments. In fact, the professional management and supervision of the cultural sector is largely covered by about fifty-six major projects from domestic sources, but if we add them, we can add to the total number of projects the investments of the Liget Budapest project and the totality of the Makovecz projects, together with 96 projects. As you can see, the 2019 budget ensures the timely completion of the tasks of the Liget Budapest project, the creation of a new complex of the Metropolitan Circus, the renovation of the building of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road, the assistance of the Makovecz Fund and the Thália Theatre, and the support of the development of the Microscope Theatre. It is very important to highlight the role of Budapest and the countryside, and it is very important to highlight festival tourism; it plays an increasing role not only in Hungary but also in the world tourist market. Practically as early as the 16th annual budget, it appeared as a new appropriation as a prestigious community and domestic cultural festival. In this respect, it is very important to resolve the opposite of the development of the capital and the countryside, and to help it, as a result of previous failed policies, the Budapest focus on cultural life itself. Among other things, festivals have a role in this, all events, we have heard about many opportunities that open this opportunity, support this opportunity, and help to live and preserve local traditions as a virtually national value. It is very important to support projects such as the Árpád-ház program, the Hungarian National Archives programme for hungarian research and archives education, the public collection digitisation strategy, and I could continue the line. Overall, support for culture increases by HUF 69.5 billion in the language of figures and facts. Finally, as a last thought. The draft 2019 budget and one of its important objectives is that all Hungarians can continue to take a step forward in their own lives; tax cuts, tax policy, serve this by increasing family support. We want to make sure that all Hungarians can work, it is worth working, and the quality of life of all Hungarians is improved. To this end, I would like to ask the support of all my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.40]]
u2018-06-28-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will be a speech from Congressman Gergely Arató, the Democratic Coalition. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is particularly fortunate that I can speak for Mrs Maria Kállai, because I would like to speak for myself about the world of education and culture. Although we do not see the figures in the budget exactly the same, I would like to talk about the facts rather than the desires. Before I get to this, I am obliged to mention that, contrary to what you are saying, this is actually a budget of uncertainty, unpredictability and detachment from Europe, stagnation and congestion. In fact, in any area that is important to people, it does not contain any meaningful growth, it is based on substantial progress, but on extremely uncertain foundations. The fundamentals from which a budget could be planned are not available, and what we know, what we see contradicts your immeasurable optimism. So we are forced to note that with this budget, we will only move away from European life, European quality of life, social security, or even a functioning health care system of European quality. We will also move away from the knowledge-based society, we will move away from a better chance for young people to start their lives, so that they can succeed in an economic environment in which skills and skills that can be used in many ways are the key to success not only for individual citizens, individual workers, but also for the country as a whole. Let's look at the big numbers first. It has been said several times in this parliamentary debate how happy you must be, as the budget for education has increased by HUF 15 billion. This is a very big deal when we talk about a person or even a local government. But do you know what the total budget for education is? I'll tell you: more than 2,000 billion forints. To do this, you need to measure the money you are talking about, this 15 billion, and you can see immediately that this is not an increase of 1 percent, not one forint will be added to every hundred forints in the next year's budget. This also means that in the event of inflation estimated by you to be slightly higher than 2 per cent, almost 3 per cent, the support for education will be significantly reduced in the following year. Of course, you can trick around here, you can say, "Well, there's more for basic education and secondary education." But that is only because, dear fellow Members, a system of education management has been built earlier in which the functions of education cannot be properly separated from each other. Therefore, most of the educational expenditure is included in both 2018 and 19 in the so-called "other" education. This is where the majority of primary and secondary education is, by the way. In English, they transfer the money for education from one pocket to the other pocket, but that won't make a penny more. If we look at the world of vocational training, the situation is similar. At vocational training centres there is a very modest, 3-percent increase, let's add, they get a lot of new functions. But you think vocational training is the center, you talk about how important vocational training is. If that's true, then why is there no record of this in the budget? Why can't we see the government spending money in the budget to improve vocational training? The situation in universities and colleges is similar. There is a substantial increase there, indeed, but the fact is that most of this increase in expenditure is due to an increase in the own income of universities and colleges. In English it is said that go ahead, boys, earn this money, develop higher education from this. State aid itself increases by a total of HUF 3 billion at an amount of around HUF 280 billion, which is ridiculous. This means that the downhill process in higher education, the kind of negative process that has started, continues the downsizing that you are proud of. We heard at some point in the debate that, oh, but the chancellor system is good, because now there is finally budgetary discipline in universities and colleges. Yeah, well, there's no money. There is no money to pay quality educators, no money to keep talented young people on the teaching field, no money for research, no money for development, no money for Hungarian higher education to get closer to the world's top. It is also very important to mention that, of course, there is an area where state aid is increasing. There will be plenty of money for church public education and higher education, so much so that if we add up the increase in support from church institutions, it turns out that there will be 41 billion more for ecclesiastical education next year, and 26 billion less for public education. So instead of locking him up... [[Turning to László Böröcz:]] Count it out, Congressman. You're looking at me very strangely. All the growth is 15 billion. If the churches get 41 billion of this, that's a lot less for the state institutions. This means, fellow Members, that the difference that still exists in funding church institutions and state institutions is not going to change. Remember, we talked about this several times, two and a half times, three times more than a child in church school than a child in public school when it comes to expenditure on work. So that difference in the next year, let alone close, would not eliminate injustice, on the contrary, increase. It's not that children in church school get too much money. It's about not getting enough for kids going to public school. And you don't want to change that. We talked a lot about the fact that Mr. Secretary of State often boasts about the great educational numbers compared to GDP. This is the number that shows most generally what the state of education is like in the education budget. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, this is also a very simple calculation. The budget for education is around 2000 billion, which is what we talked about, and this is what we need to compare to the GDP that you have planned for the future for 43 000 billion. Well, dear fellow Members, that is not 5.2 percent, as you say, but 4.6 percent. You have to figure it out, it's not a complicated mathematical operation. They are happy to refer here to what was in 2010 and before 2010. This was, by the way, the methodology of the KSH, which is how they calculated that the amount in the functional allocation of the budget was allocated to GDP. According to this methodology, indeed, in 2010, even during the most difficult period of the crisis, education had a share of 4.75 per cent of GDP, but there was also a higher share of around 5.5 per cent earlier. [[Sándor Font's intervention.]] I must say to you that it is no coincidence that you have completed this calculation in 2015; since 2015, you have not done this calculation. But as you've seen, I'll do it for you. There is another method, a method according to Eurostat, including the amount that is not given by the budget, but that is taken from people. For example, in the form of towering tuition fees in the form of hundreds of thousands of HUF tuition fees. Yeah, that counts for that, too. There's a 5.2 percent coming out here, but it's not your fault, it's being taken away from the citizens. But I must add that in this respect you cannot be competitive, even with government before 2010. That was 5.5 percent, now 5.2. Before they say that, indeed, GDP decreased in 2008-2009 because of the crisis, I must say again that this is true, fellow Members, but before that, this ratio was even better. In 2005, for example, the budget for education was above 6 percent in this comparison. So the difference is that when we had money or the country had money more precisely, because the country worked well... [[László Böröcz: Credit!]] No, Congressman, we have spent this amount on investing in education, but in times of economic growth, you do not want to spend any more of the bigger cake on education. There is another place for you, but this is not for the good of the country, but for the benefit of some individuals close to you. [[Sándor Font: How beautiful everything was during the socialist-free democrat governments! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Let's keep moving. Perhaps it is also worth talking about why more money should be spent on education, since we are talking about where we stand. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the situation of education. Obviously, they don't believe me, but then believe the data compiled by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. For example, the EU's goal is to reduce the proportion of young people in the European Union whose basic reading, mathematics and science skills do not meet the minimum requirements. This is PISA level 1, level 2. The fact is that in the last measurement in 2015, this ratio was 25 percent and is constantly increasing. [[12.50]] The aim is also to make as few people as possible leave the school early. We are now at a rate of 12.5 percent, and it is also constantly increasing. Mr. Secretary of State boasted here that 20 percent of the total working age population is higher education. That's great, but it's not your credit, it's the credit of the former governments, which have significantly increased the proportion of those in higher education in young age groups. In young age groups, where this is measured at the age of 25-30, the proportion of graduates is not increasing, but is constantly decreasing. In 2017, only 32 percent, while the EU target would be 40 percent. Let me mention one more little thing, since we are talking about what more money should be spent on, because you can see that there are plenty of areas here where there is a need for additional resources for education, where we need to make substantial progress in the interests of the country. There's no resources, no extra money in your budget. So let me mention one more little thing. We have also talked here in Parliament about what a problem it is that you want to increase your language skills in the country by law or regulation, by decision, instead of spending on it. It is very nice to be told that by 2020, everyone who goes to university should have a language exam, but the conditions for this will not be spent a penny in the budget. There is no additional source of higher quality language education, more language teachers, smaller groups. Let us also talk about educators' wages, which they often boast about in Parliament. The reality is, however, that you guys have played a nasty trick on educators. When the career model was introduced, they promised that the basis of the career would be the minimum wage. That was their promise to the teachers. However, this was violated, and the consequence of this was that, for example, a career-starting educator with a college degree received only HUF 177 thousand in January, while the promise made to them was HUF 248 thousand. This was raised to 200,000 forints, seeing the election coming. This means that they still owe these teachers 50,000 forints, and a career-starting educator earns 13,000 forints net more than the minimum wage for skilled workers, which is earned by a teenage youth who is out of vocational training. Don't you feel the shame? Don't you feel the situation? There is a constant difference between teachers' wages and not only the average income in the national economy, but the average income of teachers' wages and intellectual workers. While there are 8-9-10 percent increases there, you're going to give the teachers 3-4-5 percent as a donation. And this automatic raise is almost over. There is no guarantee that teachers will at least have this modest wage. You are happy to refer to the Gyurcsány government, the previous governments, but it is unnecessary, my dear fellow Members. You've been ruling for eight years. It's just as much time as we've been able to steer. Where are the results after eight years? Where is it that this country has reached, even in the field of education? We're not any further ahead. Now, I want you to focus on what's gone wrong in the last eight years. Or if you want to remember the Gyurcsány government, please add that, for example, the Roadway Program, mentioned by the congresswoman, was launched by the Gyurcsány government, you have failed to pay the scholarship several years ago. I hope that this year or next year will be resolved once the source is available. The situation in public culture is similar. Because, of course, you can talk about culture, especially because you started a series of investments that are well overpriced and your account is shown in the cultural budget. But if we look at public culture, it turns out that, for example, the municipal funding of public culture is essentially not progressing. There are a few hundred million forints of progress in the field of public culture, which means that there is walking on the ground here. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, because this means that a significant part of the graduates of public culture will continue to earn under the minimum wage, only by supplementing the minimum wage. She boasts that there is additional resources to pay for the minimum wage and the minimum wage. Well, they'd rather cry about it, because that means that a large part of the people working in the fields of education and culture are employed at minimum wage or minimum wage. It's not something to brag about, it's a shame. It would be good if the minimum wage no longer affected this area. Finally, let me mention the issue of funding the Academy. It's obvious what's going on here. It's possible to misread, to mention all kinds of examples, but it's clear what's going on. In 2018, the management of the Academy could decide on 40 billion forints of resources in the framework of scientific autonomy and 12 billion next year. Now, of course, they've threatened the Academy, and they might force him to make some kind of coercion deal, but that doesn't solve anything. You can say the opposite, but without underestimating the government, my fellow Members - is it not possible that the government is always right, and everyone else is stupid, including the Academy of Sciences, not only the Hungarian, but also the world's scientific opinion? The presidents of the V4 academies were protesting against austerity. Shouldn't we just stop doing that? And since Congressman Pósán was so kind yesterday and mentioned an extremely unfortunate statement by former Minister Kóka, let me remind you that this story ended with János Kóka calling the President of the Academy and apologizing for it. It was quite clear that he did not represent the government's opinion, but his own opinion. I'm suggesting the same thing to you right now. Call the president of the Academy, apologize to him for everything you've proposed, and for what you've said over the past few years, and for what the press funded by you has done, please apologize and leave this matter to nothing. Understand, it is in the best interests of the country that the Academy can function in peace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-28-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr László Szászfalvi, Mr KDNP Group. You have the floor.
u2018-06-28-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The current budget also represents the values of the current government, goals, value choice, worldview, world vision, social image. I think that this is also the case with the current budget proposal for 2019, which we can say is a budget for Hungary, a budget for balanced and secure growth, with a focus on Hungarian families, security, growth, job creation and further strengthening of our communities. I would like to talk about two important areas, which are particularly important for the KDNP: how is national policy and support for churches in the next year's budget proposal that lies before us? Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to national policy, it can be said briefly and in summary that after 2010, there has been a paradigm shift in national policy or national policy. If we look at the support of national policy from the budget side, we can say that we can sum up by saying that over the last eight years, budget support for national policy has multiplied tenfold. I think that this includes the commitment of the national government, the attitude of the national government to the united Hungarian nation and, of course, to our Hungarian national communities abroad. Over the last eight years, and the tenfold increase in budget support, there have been or have been very many cultural programmes, educational programmes, church programmes, institution development programmes, community building programmes and civil society programmes. I would like to highlight in particular some of these programmes. There has already been a programme called Unlimited!, which I might say is a programme supported by all of us. In the next year's budget, we will already spend 5.6 billion HUF on implementing the Unlimited! programme, which I think is extremely important in order to ensure that the growing generations, the young Hungarians living in the mother country, can get to the Hungarian communities abroad as intensively as possible and as many places as possible. I would also like to highlight the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, which started five years ago. We are talking about the diaspora hungarian support and support program. We started this program with 47 scholarships, and 115 applicants in 21 countries were able to participate in this programme last year with the aim of strengthening and extending the cultural and linguistic identity of Hungarians abroad, strengthening the links between diaspora and the Hungarians of the mother country. [[13.00]] The third priority programme, which I would like to say a few words about, is the programme for the Sporadic Hungary in the Carpathian Basin in spring 2015, the Sándor Petőfi programme, which covers the territory of the former Monarchy, which affects the countries concerned today, Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and South Poland. In these countries, Hungarian organizations, churches, educational institutions have defined areas where these scholarships can be of the greatest benefit, with the aim, of course, of strengthening the identity of Hungarians who are losing weight in sporadic areas and of helping our existing Hungarian communities out there. I would also like to mention that, not only in the field of educational, cultural, community development or religious programmes, but also in the area of long-awaited economic development programmes. This is more than HUF 50 billion economic development programme, which started partly in Vojvodina, partly in Transcarpathia and Szeklerland. We believe that in the coming years this can continue to expand and continue to grow and expand. I would also mention that in the area of national policy we have restarted MÁÉRT, the Hungarian Permanent Conference, created the Diaspora Council, confirmed, extended the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, and did so as I have already said, that we have gained tenfold of the budgetary resources. In the next year's budget proposal, I would like to say a few more words about the operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund and its resources. To sum up, we can say that in the following year the budget allocation from which the BGA, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, can operate will increase by HUF 1.9 billion. The increase is made up of an extra HUF 1 billion spent on strategic university education across the border and an increase in support of natural persons in Transcarpathia. I'd like to give you some details. Forint 5.8 billion for the planned expenditure, HUF 1 billion for natural persons in Transcarpathia, HUF 1 billion for open applications, HUF 1 billion for the funding of institutions of national importance, HUF 900 billion for the funding of HUF 550 million, and the Bethlen Gábor Fund will have HUF 366 million in total for other grants. This includes support for cultural, educational, social, youth and religious institutions, from a community-enhancing and regional level. Under this framework, grants are awarded on the basis of restricted tenders and individual applications. The main objective remains to support education programmes in the Hungarian language, in particular in the field of sporadic schools, support for cultural programmes and events, and support for media in the Hungarian language with regional cross-border competence. Thus, the Bethlen Gábor Fund can manage a total of HUF 28 billion in the following year, which will serve the achievement of national political goals. The other area on which I wish to briefly address is the support of churches. We all know that as stated in the Fundamental Law, the churches have been a nation-sustaining, nation-sustaining force over the past centuries and are still reporting in the life of the Hungarian nation. For centuries, the churches have served and served Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian communities, and Hungarian society. In the field of education, social, cultural and health, they perform a public service which, I think, is essential for Hungarian society, is essential for the survival of the Hungarian nation and for the future of the Hungarian nation. In addition, I would like to mention the churches, in particular the cross-border areas, the Hungarian communities from abroad, where they also perform a huge service and task in the field of cultural heritage protection. I would, of course, like to underline that churches, our churches, are present as a nation-sustaining force in the Hungarian communities abroad, especially in the diaspora, in the sporadic areas, in the strictest sense of the word. That is why we still consider it extremely important to support churches, church communities and church institutions. I would like to point out that the support of churches has increased significantly in the last 8 years since 2010, with a total of HUF 23.5 billion in support of our churches. This year's budget bill will increase to HUF 71,3 billion in the budget proposal for next year, which will, of course, include support for church public collections and public education institutions, support for religious education, basic institution support, so-called annuity financing, income supplement for church persons serving in settlements less than five thousand inhabitants, support for ecclesiastical persons serving abroad, protection of church built heritage and other investments. And in particular, in the following year, budget resources, support for religious community programmes and investments, and in addition, support for the development of cross-border ecclesiastical institutions, complementing church religious support, support for the provision of assets to church persons, and, in addition, support for many primary ecclesiastical, cultural heritage conservation programmes, projects or start-ups, or support for ongoing investments. On this basis, honourable Members, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the 2019 Budget Act proposal, and we also ask our fellow Members to support the adoption of this budget proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Szabolcs Szabó, Mr LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2018-06-28-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Not surprisingly, as a member of the Cultural Committee, I would also basically talk about education, I promise, in short, because there has been a lot of talk here in the debate, and as a university assistant, I will not stop to bring up the case of the MTA, since we are talking about a budget. So, as far as education is concerned, when Minister Kásler came to the Minister's hearing in front of the Cultural Committee, I also told him there that I think the most important thing that we need to do in education is to put order in order and really have a European quality education system for all, which Mrs Kállai referred to, and this money and dialogue, because there is no dialogue, but we are talking about the budget, so I will put it in parentheses. What's important is money. I also thought that the first thing to show when Minister Kásler was really going to be a minister for good education and become a good minister is to be found in the debate on the budget: can he make more money for education? [[13.10]] I think it's safe to say that this didn't work. Education is not at all a winner of next year's budget, but rather a loser. I have always been very interested in listening to debates when opposition and pro-government representatives are, by the way, having a long debate about whether, in the long term, expenditure on education from the budget has now decreased in the last eight years, and how they have evolved in proportion to GDP, and everyone finds interestingly the series of data that seems to support his argument system, so I have just downloaded it from government.hu as I have listened to the debate, a series of data. The title of the table is I say that you can download it from government.hu, and the educational financial data is compiled in the Ministry - :. The educational expenditures of the budget. I can't show you, because I'm being punished for a few hundred thousand forints, but believe me, the table looks like the spending on education will be cut off from 2011 and there will be a replacement from 14 onwards, and the educational expenditure that was in 2010 will reach nominally in 2015. In English, to translate, if someone is monitoring this mediation on the Internet, this means that they were withdrawing from education in 2011-2012-2013, this is about a hundred billion forints in years, it is here on the diagram, and then it was replaced until 15, but in 2015 the money that is the same at current prices as in 2010, this means that it is worth much less in real terms. There is such a simple economic concept that inflation, a sustained and constant rise in the price level, in Hungarian, could buy less things for that money than in 2010. Although expenditure has been increasing nominally since 2015, it must be noted that, unfortunately, we have still not been able to catch up with ourselves in real terms. And the same is the case now that education spending is not increasing in real terms. At current prices, it is growing a little bit, of course, which is why there are fewer things to buy than in this year, as we are talking about next year's budget. That is why we are saying that education is losing to this budget proposal. And then we didn't talk about GDP growth, because otherwise, this type of welfare expenditure, international statistics, when we analyze this, I say that as a social researcher, we usually give it in proportion to GDP, ergo, if GDP grows and we don't really increase educational expenditure, then we lose in proportion to GDP, and in Hungarian we will lower the weight of education in the budget in proportion to GDP. Because, let's say, as long as Finland and Israel and such backward places have between 6 and 6.5 percent of the GDP of education expenditure, we have more than one percent less than that, and that should actually be put back. That is why we have tabled proposals for amending the budget, which would transfer approximately HUF 200 billion to education. This would at least put us in a position to catch up, because it is only possible to pay decent wages and to create normal infrastructure conditions, then to start a quality education, which, for example, Mrs Kállai talked about, if there is money for it, because until there is no money, there will be no money. We have to look around a school today, it's not good, there's no money, and it's one of the most basic problems in today's education system. What are the most important items on which we thought that we would have to put an amendment in any way to spend about 200 billion forints on education in addition? I'm not talking about ornaments like this from Christmas trees. If someone's watching the broadcast, I'm telling him that we're going to put in a budget changer with an indication of where we're going to take it from, so that we didn't set the amount on our stomachs, but calculated whether it could be done. There are a lot of items that are completely unnecessary in the current budget. The wages must be settled. There's been a lot of people talking about this, so I wouldn't be able to analyze it for a long time. The point is that in public education, the salaries of teachers, staff who help them in their work, and those who help them in education must be settled. In higher education, not only is there no salary close to competitive, but the salary is facially low. In a category where I'm on unpaid leave, I'm a university assistant - people's salary is less than HUF 200,000 net. So how do we expect to have normal, motivated colleagues in higher education if we don't have a net salary of HUF 200,000 for colleagues with a scientific degree? Schools must be returned to local communities and, by the way, the money must also be given to them in order to solve maintenance and operation. They introduced everyday physical education, they forgot to build a sufficient number of classrooms, and they always want to spend little money on it, so we have to increase it, which is what we have put in an amendment for. In higher education, not only teachers' salaries should be increased, but student scholarships should finally be substantially increased, this has not happened in ten years; we have also tabled an amendment to this. We need to assess the current status of segregation immediately. This is particularly important to me. It's not even a big item, a billion forints, which hasn't been realized in over ten years, should be done. By the way, the Metropolitan Court has just stated in its first instance judgment that almost 30 schools are under segregation. You have to do this, and it's not a big item. In addition, we would support and add a supplement to the development and expansion of an early development and therapeutic pedagogical network, as well as the launching of a national forest school programme, and we would also spend more money on normative funding at school. These are the main elements of what if it were to happen, I say, a sum of about HUF 200 billion, then we could start on the road to a normal education in Hungary, because this is not a European quality non-quality education. And it's not really the teacher's fault. The system is wrong, and it is a very important element of this that there is no money. As far as R &amp; D is concerned, and in particular MTA, as I mentioned, I'm not stopping you from bringing this up. Everyone knows what's going on here, and I wouldn't add a word about it, because for example, it was researchers from the MTA who regularly told me why the educational system that is in Hungary today is not good, and I note it in parentheses. It's customary to say from the pro-government side in the last few days that, uh, there's no nationalization here, and there's no interference with the MTA's finances. In particular, the funding of the MTA's research institute network will be transferred to the Ministry, which is clearly a direct intervention, and this is a clear destruction of the autonomous operation of the MTA. In order not to say that I am this typical oppositionary, Soros-bender representative, who always yells, I would like to say that the European Association of Academy of Sciences, the Academy of V4 Member States, has issued a resolution that they do not agree with, but what is most interesting to you is that even in Nature, an editorial article has now been published, in which they clearly say that they are not doing this, because it is wrong. They know exactly what's going on, and they're finishing this article: there's still time for the government to change course, that's what we should do. That should be done anyway, at least leave the MTA alone if they don't want to take the other opposition councils. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-28-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-28-51	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to appeal to my pro-government colleagues in a series of cases for some reaction to the fact that the government is asking for hundreds of billions of forints of pocket money with this budget plan. He asks for this by raising the so-called extraordinary government measures from 110 to 165 billion forints, and by separating the 60 billion in the National Defence Fund, which the government will then want to decide in decisions, so he wants to hide from us, he wants to make his own decision on what he spends these hundred billion. He did this in 2016, when he spent 8 billion HUF more than he had planned, without any real consequences. Obviously, we can't put our names on this without any explanation. [[13.20]] But the issue of new jobs created by the government has also been discussed here today. I would like to point out that this government has not really created new jobs, that new jobs could be created in the Hungarian economy, but it is very difficult to argue about the number of jobs until the Hungarian Government falsifies or distorts statistics on three points. On the one hand, in an outrageous way, even the Balliberal team didn't do what you do, but student workers are counted among the full-fledged employees. The public employment participants are counted here, and indeed part of the Hungarians working abroad, who have not fulfilled all their administrative obligations or opportunities. The result of this triple forgery of statistics is that there are hundreds of thousands of differences between the number of jobs actually created and your visions. The fact is that the productivity of the Hungarian economy is unfortunately not as good as you think it is, but there would be a substantial reaction to the fact that they are still holding this onion fever dream, that a million new jobs will be created here during your regency, or are they holding what they have said so far, that they want to spend more than 300 billion forints from this budget as pocket money. I look forward to your substantive response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take advantage of the two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. We will continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let us be clear that this draft budget is a budget for safe growth, as we have tried to make many areas feel, both with viewers, listeners and radio listeners, and with the opposition, who has not yet felt this, at least on the basis of their comments. Therefore, allow me to talk about a part of the budget, agriculture, and to explain why I dare to say that it is a budget for safe growth. Agriculture is the area that our ancestors had forgotten before 2010, which they thought was enough to create some capitalised large estate systems that they had created as a result of privatisation - and then the others at home to rake a little bit, hoist a little, hoist a little, spray them; it is enough to call them people living in agriculture. 2010 had to come to make agriculture a strategic sector for the government. He assumed, and now we can safely say, on the basis of the past eight years, that rightly - that there is more, more power, more potential in this agriculture than our ancestors thought, and thank God, we have proved that. Anyone who knows the number of budgets and the number of performances of the Hungarian economy over the last eight years knows precisely that, with the exception of two years, which have rejected agriculture due to extremely serious environmental damage, he has helped the Hungarian economy grow to an unexpected extent in all other years, and the proportion added to the GDP has become an unpredicted proportion. These figures were, of course, reflected in the partial data, which meant the performance of certain sectors of agriculture, their export capacity. Its balance, which closes with a very high, positive saldo year after year, and, of course, without underestimating and denying the technological progress that has been financed from the European Union's agricultural funds, and we see that even in the case of rural development subsidies that are still ongoing, but which are already coming towards closure, a very significant number of farmers are coming and, thank God, a very high number of winners are also coming. They have never been able to apply for this amount as much as in the past, but let's add: they are usually 50 percent proposals, so never so much of their own strength, i.e. 50 percent more, Hungarian farmers have not added to their investments. So what I am talking about is that the budget for safe growth, this growth, which has been presented here in the last eight years with factual data on agriculture, wants to ensure and continue this. And why do I dare to say that I assure and continue? Because anyone who has looked at the partial figures of this draft budget for agriculture can read this from this. It is no coincidence that we could not have heard a great debate before, and we could not have heard a critical debate about agriculture, since, in addition to the reorganization of the structure of the government and the structure of the ministries, let me mention one here, in which the Ministry of Agriculture is also involved, the entire State Secretariat for Rural Development is now returning to the Agricultural Ministry at budgetary level from next year. At the same time, a waste management and management area is avoided by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, and if these major transfers are closed and we look at the internal part of the budget, it is exciting how far we have come and what opportunities the 2019 budget will offer next year. In this, it is safe to say that a significant stabilisation and a significant increase in budget amounts can also be seen from the sum number. In particular, let me now go to the individual areas. There is always a lot of debate about the operation of institutions. Here we have heard a lot about the operation of health and education institutions. Let me indicate that the institutions belonging to the agricultural portfolio are expecting an increase of HUF 5.5 billion. Let me mention three large groups of institutions or four, not detailing their work, but these are also the tasks of ordinary people, such as the National Food Safety Authority, the Nebih. There is no day in which we do not receive news of their activities, which is essentially for the safety of the population, as a result of various work by the Food Safety Authority, and which monitors the safety of the quality of the food. But such a large area is the national park directorates, the conservation of genes, in which we should be proud that not many countries have the genetic gene pool, guarded, graded and accurately known propagating material, such as Hungary. Don't get me wrong, it's not our government, it's the result of our predecessors' 30-40-50 years of research and even 100 years of research. But we do not want to lose it, but we want to be able to continue guarding and securing the tasks carried out with this budget support. And the national agricultural innovation institutional system, which holds significant amounts in the field of development and research, is not irrelevant. There is also a significant increase in agricultural targets, which is now set at HUF 5.7 billion. Let me mention three areas: the AMC, the Agricultural Marketing Centre, the National Chamber of Agriculture and the Tokaj wine region, as well as the closed garden programmes. This is a new programme, but it is well known that many residents are involved in the management of closed garden properties, it is about the program of releasing and launching the closed garden system. A specific target for this is set out in the budget. Which is already close to the target of farmers, in the vast majority, national agricultural subsidies. You know, this is the area where the direct agricultural support scheme of the European Union provides farmers with amounts in the form of applications or grants which are not or are very low in the management area. This is a very significant sum, more than 78 billion forints this year, and it is available again next year. Also this year, an amount of this magnitude was available. Let me mention the operators concerned, such as cattle farmers, dairy producers, sheep and goat farmers, tobacco growers, but, as I mentioned, areas which are not fully supported by the EU central agricultural fund, this is the poultry, poultry-keeping area and pig farmers. This is an even more intensively supported area under a separate domestic programme, as we believe that we need to increase the number of pigs on a continuous basis. This debate leads to a higher weight of crop production after our accession in 2004 than the weight of livestock farming in Hungarian agriculture. We're trying to bring livestock back to balance, which is losing the connection. I am not going to go along with why and who has unfortunately lost the livestock sector to joining the European Union. And let me also give you concrete comparative data on what important areas we provide funding from our own national budgets in the field of agriculture. In comparison, I always note how this was done in 2010 just to show what progress was made in financing these sectors from 2010. [[13.30]] The prevention and eradication of animal diseases is extremely important, since we are not always on top of this, they simply block the export of Hungarian food to vulnerable countries. It is no coincidence that more than $10 billion is available here. Here I add a 2010 figure, then our predecessors left us 4.5 billion forints in the last budget they made. So we have more than doubled the money and resources to prevent and eradicate animal diseases in next year's budget. The same specific area concerns the safe transport of animal corpses. This is an extremely dangerous, contagious area in the event of a death. HUF 3.6 billion was available in 2019 and HUF 1 billion in 2010. Field patrol is a small area, but here we know that in order to prevent crop theft, many, many crimes will be discovered by field watchmen. They have all our respect. Sometime in 2010, the previous government gave us 500 million forints, and now we support their work with 900 million forints. Let me also mention, in the case of de minimis aid, that we have extended the scope of areas where farmers can participate. It is called de minimis de minimis de minimis aid, but it is not so de minimis aid for farmers involved in this. For a list only: owners of dried fodder producers, spice pepper producers, rabbit farms, vine-fruit plantations who benefit from the use of diesel and others. The present de minimis aid of the size authorised by the Union shall be granted. We have reached a new level in the system of national agricultural compensation. Not only because we simplified the administration of farmers at the time of the damage events and reduced the level of damage, it is possible to apply for compensation in Hungarian for less damage. We have expanded the number of people affected, and we can now declare the protection of 3.7 million hectares from the area of less than 2 million hectares. This has been confirmed by an ice compensation system, which will perform its first test at present moments this year. The investment was financed by EU money, but the operation was financed by the National Agricultural Compensation Fund. I stress this because one European country has not yet tried to cover the entire country with an ice compensation system. We've done this, we've built nearly a thousand silver iodide vaporization stations at 10 square kilometers of square grids. The operation of this is estimated at HUF 1.5 billion. Farmers do not need to put anything into this, nor do Hungarian citizens, whose cars, the roof of the house, may be protected by this ice compensation system. After all, we are trying to operate it from the compensation fund this year, and later, with HUF 1.5 billion. Allow me to go to three areas that seem small, but there is a great deal of involvement in these three areas, even if their financial funding is not so great. What are these? One is the farm development program. It is important to me because in Bács-Kiskun County and the counties of the South Great Plains, there are typically large numbers of farmland settlements and the number of people living on the farm. His initiative, the author of the law and the developer of the program, when we started this project, was available only 1.2 billion forints for people living on the farm. It is possible to apply for very specific areas with this money, the renewal of farm management, the creation of a food processing small plant, the improvement of the quality of life and lifestyle of the people there, the establishment of access roads, the construction of energy supply and water supply systems. It's very popular. It is a pleasure to see at an agricultural exhibition that we see and receive food from farm farmers that have been produced by their hands in farm conditions. Let me mention two Hungarian success programmes, at least in the field of education. One of them is "Drink milk." A program. To illustrate here what this is about, we would like to add 4.3 billion forints to this area in the draft, and this was the case in 2018. In 2010, all this was supported by the government that had resigned by HUF 400 million. More than ten times we increase the. Drink milk! The financial basis of the programme. It is understandable that the number of children provided has been increased so that they can obtain fresh milk free of charge every day. A similar co-programme is the School Fruit Programme, which helps Hungarian farmers a lot, let's be honest. After all, providing fresh fruit for children is the real goal, but the system buys it from Hungarian farmers and Hungarian producers, and so we lay it down to all of the 1-6th graders. This will receive HUF 2.3 billion in funding to make the program work. Our ancestors thought it would be HUF 260 million to finance this School Fruit Scheme. Well, together with the data mentioned above and the data presented on the dynamic development of Hungarian agriculture, I still say that this budget also provides for safe growth for agriculture. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-54	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Tibor Bana. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to split my speech into two parts. In the first half, I wish to present the position of the Jobbik Group on the use of EU funds as Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee. In the second half, I would like to talk about my proposals for amending the budget for the constituency of Körmend and the County of Vas, highlighting their background and justification. Commission President Richard Hörcsik outlined a rather pink picture of the use of EU funds. Unfortunately, the situation is much worse. After all, if we look back over the past years or even in the 2014-2020 period, so the current seven-year budget period, we can say that the Fidesz government intends to maintain a corrupt system for the use of EU funds. The Orbán government was characterised by an effort to deliver a large proportion of the funds to a tight circle of friends, which contributed to the fact that the level of corruption is higher than ever, as it has been before, as is the case with Poland. Why do I bring up their example? Because, in addition to Poland, only Hungary is the state that does not want to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Viktor Orbán and his government are rigidly excluded from this, which could have very negative consequences for the future, including for the 2021-27 planning cycle. For the next financial planning period, the possibility of introducing the rule of law mechanism has been raised, and if this is indeed to happen, Hungary may fall from a significant part of EU funding if certain conditions of the rule of law are not met. This is why, in the context of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, 20 Member States intend to establish this organisation in the context of the so-called enhanced cooperation procedure. Hungary, as I said, unfortunately does not wish to join this position as it stands. We will also present a proposal for a resolution together with Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, in order to override their position. This is also necessary because between 2010-27, if this accession does not take place, and therefore we are making our negotiating positions worse, Hungarian settlements, businesses and our fair compatriots will suffer. Although, based on the processes of the past years, Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates will be sad about the other side, as they will be able to steal less money as a result of any withdrawal of funds. [[13.40]] It can therefore be said, Honourable Parliament, that corruption in Orbán is a threat to EU subsidies. This is a serious problem because Hungary's economy is heavily dependent on EU funds, and while we see that the priority projects are running fast, the oligarchs you can channel can access money very well and quickly, while on the other hand Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are drowning in the swamp of bureaucracy. Or let's look at the pay grade. Here it can be said that the situation is bad in our country compared to Western Europe, but even to the neighbouring Member States. It was not a coincidence that we focused on our wage union initiative, and it was a positive development that the European Commission included the issue of equal pay for equal work in its consultation. We also encourage all our countrymen to fill in this consultation and give their views on this. Jobbik is of the opinion that, in contrast to prestige investments, employment-enhancing targets, health, education and the social sphere should be focused on the use of EU funds. I mentioned that, for the next period, Hungary may be threatened by a terrible loss of resources, but it should also be said that the European Union has indeed set a serious penalty for the current cycle of 14-20. The auditors of the European Commission have examined applications and can pay a penalty of between HUF 100 and 150 billion, which is due to the fact that you, my fellow members of the government, have legitimised corruption with the laws passed over the past years and have thus contributed to this punishment from the level of the EU. We are interested in creating a more transparent system of applications to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as this could serve the long-term strengthening of the Hungarian economy, and this could also make an effective contribution to the rise in the standard of living of Hungarians. I would like to turn to the second part of my comment on my proposals for amending the budget for the district of Körmend and the county of Vas. But here I would refer back to my proposals for this year, that, for example, during last year, I submitted my motion to renovate the building of the firehouse in Körmend, and fortunately, concrete steps have been taken since then. The fire department building has been renovated, which is definitely a positive development. But I could also mention the issue of Route 8, in which steps have also been taken, although unfortunately not in the way that this was promised. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has personally promised on two occasions that there will be four lanes in Körmend 8 and from the capital to Körmend and from Körmend to the border in this way. On the other hand, this will take place twice in one lane. Of course, the contractor will be Lőrinc Ripper's company. What a surprise. This is something we can face almost everywhere when this type of tendering takes place. I also consulted with small town mayors, asked for their opinion and indicated that in many cases there are still problems with the sewer network, roads and sidewalks. Vas county is a small village with a structure, so we are particularly disadvantaged from this point of view. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that there is still much to be done in this area. But in order to go back to road development and to give some of my amendments this year, I would like to bring the question of road 87 here between Szombathely and Kőszeg; we are talking about an accident risk road. However, the development of the 86th would also be important between Körmend and Egyházasrádóc, but also from Körmend to Szőce, as this main road is subject to extraordinary truck traffic. But likewise, the question of 76 is important, from Mountain Backsal to Zalaegerszeg. Developments have been made here in recent years, and this must be acknowledged, but we are talking about an extremely dangerous road, so it would be important to take further steps to save people's lives. It's a question of flood water. It was very up-to-date. A few weeks ago, there were again serious problems in several small settlements, especially in the Körmend district, but also in the county as a whole. Unfortunately, small town mayors have indicated that the steps that have taken since then have not resolved this situation. It is also important to allocate substantial resources to these purposes. In the case of villages, it is also crucial that we can also boost cultural life, since we are talking about settlements which are mostly ageing, and in order for young people to stay there, we also need to take substantial measures in this regard, and I would therefore like to bring here, for example, the issue of the renovation of the village house in Uppermarác. However, there is also a need for effective steps as soon as possible in the aptistvánfalvár district building and the medical office next to Szentgotthárd. And if it is already Szentgotthárd, I have tabled a number of amendments to our city, like last year, as well as to the construction of the Reformed Congregation Centre, because we can talk about a very active community in this case, whether in order to renovate the music school or the mayor's office. The system of pay-parking can also work less when, for example, there is a situation at the grove that even in a small rain there is a swamp, a mud sea. Worthy steps should therefore be taken. In the context of the rescue station, I would like to bring here a HUF 5 million item, the purchase of the Lucas chest-compromising device, which can be called small compared to the budget. Last year I also submitted a small item to improve the situation of the rescue station in Szentgotthárd, not in order to improve the situation of the rescue station, but in order to improve the situation of the patients, and in this case specifically to save lives. I ask you to support this as well, since, while billions of forints, if any, disappear in the mazes of corruption, there is no such expenditure. Not to mention, we're gonna need an ambulance in town with the current situation. With regard to Körmend, I would like to bring the case of the cinema here again, like last year, no substantive steps have been taken on the mobile dam issue, the roof space of the rescue station has not been renewed, and the municipality has already taken steps on the construction of a new public cemetery in the sense that this has already been discussed at the representative board meeting, but they have not been able to move on. The same applies to Kőszeg, too. The renovation of the sports locker room and the village hall of the gastronomic region or the renovation of the noble cultural house next to Jánosháza and the solution of precipitation are also items that I have submitted. As for a settlement near Körmend, Harasztafalu, the main road should be renewed as soon as possible, as this otherwise very busy road is getting worse in many cases, because when, let's say, instead of road 86, this road is being taken because of an accident, or many people are going on a detour, this is a considerable burden on the settlement. Döröske is a small settlement even in the Vas county area, as 100 people do not live there, yet it would be important to take into account the request of the people there, whether for the construction of the bus turn, for the collection of sewage, for the purchase of property by the lake, for the establishment of a community space or for the establishment of a tourist accommodation. Moreover, concrete plans are available in this respect, so they should not start from zero, but they are waiting to receive substantial support and assistance, as, unfortunately, small settlements over the past few years have been able to benefit much less from different applications, whether they are TOP resources or other opportunities. Last but not least, I would like to bring here the issue of flood protection in Csákánydoroszló, the development of the dam system, because the problems in the settlement are increasingly serious in terms of flood water, and more and more inhabitants are affected by this problem compared to previous years, but also in many other settlements, as I suggested, this task is waiting for a solution earlier. I ask you to support, where appropriate, this larger investment or some of the smaller development plans. Don't make this a question of pride. Of course, if it is submitted by its own name, we can give it our own support. It would therefore be important for people in the Körmend region to feel that substantial improvements can be made either in cities or in small settlements in the next period. I therefore request your support for these. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, will be speaking. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-28-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Without a family, there is no youth, there is no future. In a budget, what matters is what he says about the future, what he says about the country where you imagine your own life, your children and your grandchildren. [[13.50]] The 2019 budget says that this country is counting on its young. The joint effort promises a future in which the newly-educated house painter finds his place as well as the newly-educated young researcher or preschool teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2019 budget is not only a budget for safe growth, but also a budget for youth. Demography will excite few people, even though the quality of life of my generation and the future of us will depend largely on how many Hungarian citizens populate the Carpathian Basin. In recent years, young people are growing again in the mood to start a family and have children. The government pays particular attention to supporting family formation and home creation. Next year we will spend HUF 2004 billion on family support, HUF 75 billion more than this year. This is more than twice as much as before 2010 and shows what is at the heart of civil governance. The growth in family support is dynamically following the pace of economic growth. This is important, since balanced families are the basis for stability and strengthening both the economy and society in the short and long term. CSOK, which helped to create homes to an unimaginable extent, continues: in the 2019 budget, the government envisages HUF 242 billion for the family home creation discount, so it will continue to contribute HUF 10 million to the families' access to their homes if they raise or take up three or more children. As part of the CSOK, families with three or more children, building or buying new apartments, can use a 3-percent fixed rate housing loan. In addition, the VAT rate of 5 per cent on real estate sales and the tax refund for self-built persons will be used to improve the housing situation. The actions of the programme will improve the quality of life of the population while encouraging childbearing. In 2019 there will be nearly HUF 400 billion for family-friendly tax and contribution reductions, which is 10 percent more than this year. This is HUF 355 billion for family tax incentives. The tax relief of families with two children continues to increase, so next month it will be HUF 40,000, twice as much as in 2015. Next year, the government will spend 265 billion forints on the baby care fee, the baby care fee, the child care fee, children's children's children's children's children's children's allowance, which is 14 percent more than this year. Thanks to the continuous increase in the scope and amount of grants and the government's cradle-building programme, careers and children can now be shared. In the field of youth, the government's priority is to improve the employment situation of young people, and to promote community development, which also strengthens and facilitates the physical, mental and moral development of young people. Dear House, The number of unemployed people in Hungary is at a historic low, since our unemployment rate is only 3.8 percent. Hungary is among the few countries in Austria, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Malta and Germany where youth unemployment is below 11 percent. Unemployment in our country has fallen to a third since the crisis, while the EU as a whole has been able to reduce the problems of unemployed young people to a lesser extent. If we look at the 2019 budget proposal, the detailed general government balance sheet for the period 2019-22, we can see that the government can expect positive public finance base processes for the next four years. The growth, balanced growth of the economy is stable and further wage increases and tax reductions can be expected. A Hungarian youth has a certain future in Hungary. In 2019 the National Talent Programme will have HUF 3.4 billion available. The National Talent Programme is an economic, chance-enhancing, social-building strategic programme that shows the government's commitment to long-term assistance, continuous development and predictable support for talented children and young people. The promotion and development of talent is a national issue, which serves both to stimulate creativity, to combat disadvantage and to ensure the cohesion of the community. For the popular Erzsébet children's and youth camps, the government provides 13 billion HUF in 2019. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, From 1 January 2018, each young person under the age of 35 will be refunded for one language exam or a higher level of foreign language maturity up to 25 per cent of the minimum wage. The objective of the measure is to improve the general knowledge of young people about foreign languages and to facilitate their subsequent possibilities for their location. The 2019 budget provides the necessary resources for this, with HUF 2.8 billion. Young people take advantage of this opportunity, since 40-50 applications are received every day in this case. From 1 July 2018, the Government will also support the acquisition of category B driving licences for young people under the age of 20. The aid amount is up to HUF 25,000. The 2019 budget provides the necessary coverage: it provides HUF 1.7 billion. The government continues to provide targeted support for the repayment of loans from students in particular and in kind. In the 2019 budget, the necessary funds are available for approximately half a billion HUF. The Kemény Ferenc programme consists of HUF 33.5 million operating and HUF 9.5 billion accumulation resources, which are part of an 8500 student city project. The Student City project is more than just a college development, it is a total brownfield investment in Csepel and Ferencváros in a total of 197 hectares. This includes the concept of a student town, as part of which the 8500-person student town centre project started, which takes place at 44 hectares in the Nagyvásártelep and its surroundings. It is not a large building, but fifty single-storey buildings, along with additional service units in addition to the dorm rooms. The investment is a huge help for young students living in Budapest and the agglomeration. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to be able to live in a country where we can see development based on environmental, social and economic considerations, and live in a predictable, safe environment with a rising standard of living and an improved quality of life. In Hungary there is a great tradition and a huge base for nature travel. Each weekend, tens of thousands of people go for the forests, the waters, and various tours. In both tourism and ecotourism, we have seen significant progress in recent years, which will not stop in 2019. Ecotourism plays a major role in improving health and quality of life, as it provides an opportunity for citizens to spend their leisure time in a healthy environment and recreation. In Hungary, more than 800 facilities and trails support the activities of ecotourism and environmental education. Of these, nature conservation reception, teaching and visiting centres stand out, the number of which is close to 40. In the management of the National Park Directorates, there are also nearly 200 trails, 8 landscape houses, 4 arboretums, 34 tourist caves, 59 other demonstration sites and 15 forest schools that await visitors who want to enjoy healthy recreation. The popularity of ecotourism shows that the number of registered visitors increases year after year, reaching 1.6 million people last year. The number of actual visitors exceeds this, as many ecotourism facilities and services are otherwise free of charge. Several visitors' centres have been developed in recent years, and in parallel, we have witnessed the unprecedented expansion of the bicycle road system. These improvements will be covered by the 2019 budget. [[Dr. István Simicskó will be replaced in the notary seat by Attila Gelencsér.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2019, as this budget ensures the rising standard of living for Hungarian people, young people, families and their improved quality of life, by extending the possibility for future generations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2018-06-28-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, allow me to make an announcement. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, in the debate, will resign 66 minutes and 58 seconds for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]] I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament, MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-06-28-59	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear House, I would like to talk about education and culture from the perspective of the draft budget law for 2019. In this draft budget, education is at stake. He's in, but you don't brag about him either. The HUF 15 billion surplus that is foreseen next year is that if inflation is included in the whole, then it is clear that it does not preserve this year's value in real terms for everything you want to devote to education in our country. Actually, I get it, but I don't accept it. A law always has a letter, numbers, amounts in it, and, of course, it has a spirit. In terms of education and culture, it is worth looking at the explanation of the fact that you are not looking for more, but for some less in real terms. I claim that everything that they started in 2011 with the law on public education called bad public education was not worth continuing - they gave up and believe that some sort of correction should take place, but they do not know what this correction is. In this draft budget, there is no character in the issue of education. There are numbers, there are lines from last year and the previous year, but for example, the series of ideas, which could otherwise be regarded as particularly controversial, which was named as a change of grades, was discussed by the Parliament, and although in many respects I also debated it, has undoubtedly given a kind of frame to all that they wanted in the case of education. This is not visible at all in the next budget year. This concept was based on the fact that the improvement of the quality of Hungarian public education leads through higher education, i.e., by the way, by breaking the 2011 concept in part, when, in breach of almost a decade and a half of its continuity, you, as you said then, laid the Hungarian public education on a tabloid basis, from which the cab disappeared, and the revolution ended. Instead, there were figures which, for example, translated into the PISA survey language, showed a lower performance than ever before. You often mention the eight years before 2010, as you can't say the last eight years, because this is already yours, but you can't give me one PISA number that would be higher in your time than it was before 2010, none. However, if they compare their own performance with the latest survey, since there are now two international surveys that have been carried out during your governance, this has also been evaluated and published, it is the case that the last one is even weaker than the previous one. Two points are already clearly showing a straight line, so you can't even say it's a cyclical change. The quality of Hungarian public education is in a falling flight. Before, for example, mentioning what happened before 2010, I would be happy to take up any kind of debate - some of which are right, but not altogether, they destroyed something without being able to do better and more productive, but only something else. You were not convinced that what you were introducing was better than the previous one, and when you found out that it was not better, but weaker, you gave up the concept and could not replace it. The presentation of this is the draft budget for 2019. There was, indeed, a professional idea that, once again, was not simply to break the course of the 2002-2010 cycle or of the periods of governance that you mentioned a great deal, because I warmly welcome you from the occasion that it all began in 1999, and although the first government of successive governments, Viktor Orbán, and then our two governments, have shown a great shift in education in many respects, but we were one, your first government and our governments, that we put the best interests of the child at the centre of public education. Although various ministers have placed emphasis on different points, one on talent management and the other on the Internet for the development of public education, there was one on infrastructure reinforcement, but the direction, honourable Members and Members, was the same not for eight years, but for 11 years. And at any strange, slow but accelerating pace, the quality and the results of Hungarian public education improved. This was shown in the second and then in the third PISA survey, just learning from his first experience. So this was something that, in a very special way, meant continuity and continuity in Hungarian politics, when, once again, the first government of Viktor Orbán and then two successive left-wing governments agreed in the basic direction. In 2011, you broke the law on public education adopted in December. From this point on, it can be proven that the result has decreased, the quality has weakened, and that has not been stopped since then. Then, when, during the ministry of Minister Zoltán Balog and the secretary of state of László Palkovics, they realized that this was almost irreversible without correction, there was indeed a concept that said that this had to be corrected by introducing an unknown form into the Hungarian administration, against which arguments could be made, but without doubt, what we have not tried to do so far, let us not shut down. However, the strengthening of these teaching centres and regions is no longer taking place. Apparently, the change of personnel that took place at the head of the Ministry and even the State Secretariat also means giving up a concept, because it is not in the language of numbers at all and with the amounts that prove that they want to confirm or are able to confirm what they have created. We discussed the concept of "Training in higher education" developed two years ago here at the committee meeting, which, once again, wanted to achieve Hungarian public education and vocational training through the strengthening of higher education. There is no financial confirmation of this in this budget. [[In the notary seat György Szilágyi will be replaced by Bence Tordai.]] Please see or see together what changes this has made in the deeper tissues of society. Between 1995-2011, the structure of Hungarian public education was around a standard state. 90% of our schools were held by local governments, 7 percent by church, 2 percent by association, foundation, and 1 percent by private schools. Between 2011-2016, the volume or proportion of the 7 percent church-reserved school increased to 13.5 percent, and before anyone thought that I was condemning it, they were very wrong, not only did local governments give their schools to church reservations because they thought that this was definitely a better standard, where yes, there was, where they did not, but they simply did not want to give them to state reservations. [[14.10]] Everything that was created under the name of Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre now runs under the name Klebelsberg Center, which was the first word in the vast majority of cases from the local level to the mayor to the school principal, and then they were afraid of it, and then they fled. And in order to avoid misunderstanding that I am talking only about a specific, difficult-to-form medium of society, I would also like to raise a small proportion as an example, the wealthiest layer of the country, who, by the way, created private schools and taught their children in private schools. Now, the proportion of this has increased by one and a half times, and in Hungarian there are several of the most wealthy, who do not want to send their children to the state-owned or even ecclesiastical institution of Hungarian public education. There is no record of how many people are taking their children abroad, not only to higher education institutions, but also to public education institutions, especially secondary institutions. But if there are, and there are representatives from Western Hungary or representatives from Western Hungary who have their roots in Western Hungary, please ask a high school for admissions, how many students from Sopron, Kőszeg, Szombathely and neighborhoods are doing primary school in Hungary in the traditional sense, but the high school or secondary educational institution is already in Austria. And the reason for this, please, is not that Austrian public education is of such a very, very high quality, of course, should be the problem of the neighbours - but they do not want to leave their children to learn and teach in Hungarian public education. This is where I need to get to the third component, which leads me to the knowledge of foreign languages, in which the problem would be worth thinking about together. Please, there are 92,000 Hungarian compatriots who have almost completed the higher education institution, they have finished all their exams, they have written their thesis, they have protected it, they have an absolutorium, they do not have a degree, because without a language exam, they will not receive their diploma, unless they are accepted and completed more precisely. In Hungarian terms, this is a larger city of citizens. In 2010, you used to study foreign languages and informatics before you started studying the skills, and one year of your life, the first year of your life was completed in 2009: 10 thousand students, in 2010 the second grade: once again 10,000 students, 90 percent of them started their high school studies with middle and higher education exams, not university, high school studies; 70-75 percent of those who graduated from the university graduated from the second language exam if you liked it, and every year 10 thousand Hungarian students have been proven, not theoretically, not on paper, to obtain a proven language examination, that is 70 thousand students in the last seven years; 90 thousand young Hungarian students who graduated from foreign languages together with 20,000 students who took a second language exam. Instead, you abolished this system back in 2010. A process has been launched, resulting in 92 thousand young people living in Hungary who have not received their diploma. And the result of the graduation program is that 6,000 out of 92,000 somehow obtained a foreign language exam certificate. Please admit that this is not a Fidesz problem or MSZP problem, and we need to find a solution together, because in the future, but already in the present, although Hungarian is our mother tongue, and for us the most important, the most beautiful, but in the last thousand years it has not been the perfect attempt to learn Hungarian at the mother tongue level in the Western, Northern and Southern parts of Europe, and therefore it is worth learning a foreign language for us to prevail. This is not supported by your system, including the 2019 budget. I know you're there to pay for the first exam, but I'm just asking you to let me know that the problem is not whether you can pay or not pay for the exam, but the process that would take them to pass the exam is not established. Their problem is not that they don't have enough money to pay the check for their language exams, but their problem is that they can't get the knowledge that they can pass the exam. And there was a way to do that; I liked to break it down. They've brought in another system that's proven ineffective. After all, there must be some issues that we need to solve together. Please, the solution you're proposing here is not good, and there is something else, and there is better. Finally, some thoughts on culture and the financing of culture. Firstly, I must say that neither in the draft budget nor in the structure of the government can cultural policy be felt at all. I see a very powerful policy of power, but not a cultural policy. The management and budget of foreign Hungarian cultural institutions are at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The structure and budget of archaeology and historic protection are at the Prime Minister's Office. The cinema, the film industry at a separate prime minister's office and his budget. Big investments as a Liget project, a ministerial commissioner and his budget. If you look at the cultural secretary of the Ministry of Unlucky Human Resources and its budget, I must say to you that it is 85 percent budgeted, with little room for manoeuvre. In practice, the State Secretariat plays a post office role, conveys to each institution the amount symbolically transferred by the central budget or the Treasury without any additions or conception, whether these are the national cultural institutions of the highest priority or some institutions of public culture. And then you're off. There, then, the scope for presenting Hungarian culture, either abroad or in Hungary, the Hungarian culture across the border in Hungary and the national culture in a uniform manner abroad, is neither an idea nor a money. They didn't even set anything up for this. They are trying to finance symbolic projects and certain foundations with small amounts, but the concept, which was set up by the Balassi Institute in 1999 and 2000, in order to ensure that the uniform national culture, the Hungarian culture across the border, and the uniform presentation of the Hungarian culture in the mother country are displayed abroad through cultural institutions with strong funding within the bosom of an institution, was kicked off at the level of the institution as well as at the level of funding. Instead, they didn't bring anything. In fact, we are now at the point that there is a demand, the institution is no longer there, and funding is not included in the budget of cultural policy, and there is no such part of the budget at the Ministry of Culture of the EMMI. [[14.20]] That is why I miss the concept, I miss the fact that what was announced in 2010-11 with a great deal of heat, but apparently neither international nor domestic surveys prove that it is good; believe me, the PISA surveyers do not care what kind of government they are doing in a given country, and now they produce a weaker and weaker result two times in a row. I don't see the concept that would otherwise correct, which would replace a failed one, but I can see, as I said, that hiding the issue of education in the budget, although it mentions it, it has lines, at the end it has numbers, but the idea of what to do is not. That's why I claim that this budget is a matter of education. We will therefore not vote for this, and we will not accept it. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-28-60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-61	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said many times before by my fellow factions, this budget, this bill, is a budget for safe growth. An important objective is to maintain Hungary's safety. But it's not just about border protection, it's not just about economic issues, it's about our everyday life, it's about our welfare. I would like to approach this bill from some specific areas. To make us feel safe, to make people feel safe, it is essential to work, to work, to support employment, and to increase employment rates. Since 2010, there has been a steady increase in employment rates and an increase in employment, including the employment of people with disabilities. If the aim is to achieve full employment, it is also a very important goal to support the employment of people with disabilities. It is also important for the national economy to allow as many people with disabilities to work either in a protected workplace or in an open labour market area. The employment rate for people with disabilities was 18 percent in 2010, in 2018, this year it is 40 percent, and we plan to increase this further. To do so, we will provide additional resources in the draft budget for the following year. There are 2.7 billion forints more planned. Approximately HUF 470 billion will be supported on this budget line. This is accompanied by a very important task, a goal, and this is the various professional programmes, services and training that help people with disabilities to integrate into the labour market. As the aim is not only to create as many people with disabilities as possible, but also to enable as many people as possible to work in the open labour market, I would suggest that additional resources be provided in this line so that as many people with disabilities are able to work in the open labour market and find work. To make children feel safe, it is very important that they grow up emotionally safe, grow up in a family. For this, it is always necessary to ensure the conditions. However, if there are people who do not have that, they should also have the chance, the opportunity to support these children through foster care networks, so that they can grow up in the family and grow up instead of institutional care. The government introduced the employment relationship in the foster family in 2014, thus making this system more predictable and safer. Previously in the case of a child, the foster parents received 15 thousand HUF support, which means 60 thousand HUF support today. In the case of three children, this support was 45,000 forints earlier, in the current draft it means 113 thousand forints a month. The budget plans this task for the coming years plus HUF 455 million with additional support. Social assistance in kindergarten and school is also important for children. From 1 September 2018, all family and child welfare centres will be required to provide social assistance in kindergartens and schools in public education institutions. This year there is 1 billion HUF 374 million in funding for this task, for this benefit, the planned cost is HUF 5 billion 519 million in the following year. So there are more than HUF 4 billion in additional resources for this purpose. It is also a very important task to support the Roma community network. Compared to 2018, we will increase the amount of this support by more than 400 million, supporting the upbringing of the future Roma intellectuals in these specialised schools. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Of course, but not least, support for people with disabilities is also very important, and support for organisations and services representing them, because the work of these organisations is necessary to ensure continuity and predictability. Thus, providing the right quality of assistance, training and employment for people with disabilities is a very important goal. For example, the personal benefit of the blind is 35 billion HUF 622 million this year, and 36 billion HUF 926 million is planned for the following year, i.e. roughly HUF 1 billion is added to this line in the next year's budget. In the same way, it is also important to support advocacy organisations representing people with disabilities. In order to continue their work, their professional activities, it is very important that people with disabilities feel safe and safe in the field of self-living. During the last eight years of Fidesz-KDNP governance, there has never been a reduction in the support of these organisations, year after year, either the same or the same amount was rising. This year, these organisations have already been supported by HUF 1 billion of HUF 15 million, i.e. since 2010, the subsidy line of these organisations has doubled on average. At the same time, it should be noted that the number of members of these organisations is constantly increasing, thus increasing the need for services. There's a huge job to be done. To this end, I would also suggest providing additional resources. It is also important to mention the world of sports for disabled people. Year after year, support for this area has been rising or staying at a level, with HUF 460 million this year's support. [[14.30]] It will remain the same next year, which in itself would not be a problem, because it will continue to ensure the functioning and work of organisations working in the field of sports for disabled people. However, I would suggest an additional resource, because the following year there will be three special world games in the field of Hungarian disability sport: one of them is the summer game of organ transplanters, the summer special Olympics and the winter deaflympics. In addition, preparation for the 2020 paralympics is also very important for the preparation of Paralympics. I would also suggest that we provide additional resources here. In conclusion, you can see from the draft budget law that it seeks to ensure support, predictable, safe operation in all areas of life. I would also ask my fellow Members to support the proposals and the adoption of the Budget Act. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We will continue our work with the speeches of the speakers announced in advance. This line will now be followed by Mr László Hajdu, representative of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-63	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention, in particular, the Chapter of Local Government, Annex 2, Annex 3. But before I do this: the debate has been very limited in terms of the local authorities for days, I think that a chapter may reach the municipalities, but I would like to deal specifically and exclusively with the local government chapter. There are around 3,200 rounded numbers of municipalities and local governments in Hungary today, and I think that in the presentation of the central budget in 2019 this 3186 municipalities represent quite a significant subsystem, which now manage the settlements in Hungary. This budget is essentially about the Hungarian people, and the local governments really meet with the population. So the different lines and chapters of the central budget are about people, and these people live in one of these settlements, this country. I think that, therefore, I would like to deal with this in a bit more detail and in these few minutes, which I have at my disposal. The services which, in principle, are partly financed by the central budget, can be obtained by the public in the municipalities. These services are primarily social services. This has been well debated, but let me just say that at the moment, if we look at all the numbers, we have to develop the social services of local governments by over 50 percent, because the central budget would not be sufficient for this. This is true, however, that this central budget does not provide a service that comes entirely from the central budget. This is also the kindergarten care, which is also financed by the municipalities to varying degrees per municipality, in proportion to the capacity, solvency and capacity of the local government, and we can say the same thing about nursery care. Moreover, the central budget deals with these parts in Chapters 2 and 3 and clearly shows that there is a level of maintenance or a reduction. Everyone has said something about what this budget is, and I would say that from a municipal point of view, the 2019 presentation of the central budget is a budget for the fall of chapters, because if you consider that it is a 2.7 percent inflation and what other cost increase is expected, I am thinking of the value-proofness of the forint, then I think that even on the municipal side, this current budget will not be achieved. This is true of the services provided by the elderly, and this has been explained in quite detail and in a professionally demanding way. And it is true that I would respond to the congressman, Gergely Tapolczai, before me, for just one sentence: he took only a very small piece of the supply of people with odds, probably all of the positive chapters he mentioned. At the same time, support for people with severe disabilities and mild disabilities, those in need of care, those in need of care for 24 hours has not increased in this budget, and it can be clearly said that it has decreased. So, contrary to what the Member said, I can imagine that all of them have changed so positively, but the mass that the municipalities are meeting has decreased in that respect. We can say the same thing about the cultural normative, but this has been explained in quite detail. The cultural norm has not changed in years, and even the cultural norm is decreasing. Otherwise, there is some increase in the budget in total, but this clearly means a reduction at municipal level. A law has been passed on the homeless people in our law called "Top" Soros or what, on the issue of the homeless, which is clearly the result of poverty, and the people who are unable to pay, the people who are evicted from their homes, show an increasing number. This supply chapter also shows a reduction in the budget. So when we break down this budget to the level of the so-called people, this budget shows a significant reduction. I am not talking about people in crisis situations, and what the municipalities are almost independent of which municipalities we are talking about is poverty, homelessness, all the problems of starting a family, all of which appear in the municipalities. In this respect, the budget gives the municipalities very little crutches, it is clear to say. It has also been said here today in comments, the state of municipal roads does not matter whether it is a county government, a metropolitan government or a district government - if we go to the other side, let us say, beyond Lajta, it is also catastrophic, but there are terrible conditions in relation to ourselves, both in terms of potholeing and carpeting, as well as in terms of walking and many things. There is nothing targeted or addressed or tendered or similar in terms of the state of the roads in this budget, from which it could be extracted that it would have the opportunity to apply addressed or targeted to iks settlements, and that is decided not on the basis of political considerations, but on the basis of normative aspects. I believe that this normivity will accompany the budget from a municipal point of view, that its norm is lacking for the municipalities. If you'll allow me, I would also like to relate to the debate on whether a serious budget can be drawn up without presenting the accounts. If I take it, a local government in Hungary today cannot accept a budget without a closing account. According to the law adopted in Parliament, the local government is obliged to comply with it in a law-abiding manner. There's no budget without closure. You need to see the numbers on which the next year's budget is based. And if the numbers are not interesting, because the plan will not be interesting, but I will bring it up a bit with myself - it is in this budget law that there is a budget law for 2019, but the government and the finance minister can change that at any time. [[14.40]] With such a budget, it doesn't matter whether we accept, vote or not. Which is acceptable without closure and can be changed at any time, it does not require Parliament, the seriousness of that budget, I think it does not need to be presented in this circle, even if someone is part of the government side, but they know the budget, they have done so, or they have been involved in it either in the local government or in Parliament, they know exactly that everything is in order, and that order, I think, should be respected. I was also the mayor of the 12th Constituencies of Budapest a few days ago - including Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota and Újpest. I can also say, on behalf of this area, that we have tried to model from the central budget about what money we will have by 2019. You can imagine about ten different calculations of how much money we're gonna have. It cannot be established from this budget, which has just been presented, that Article XV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: The district will have about what money, but I could take Újpest or any district of Budapest as an example, since I was a member of the Budapest General Assembly, and also a metropolitan representative as mayor, this is automatic by law. We wouldn't be able to say that at the Metropolitan Assembly. Such a situation is that we do not know according to the budget law, we model it as one of the alternatives, but none is positive about this in the budget. I mentioned it earlier, but perhaps I would stop at the thought that, while the forint's exchange rate is at historical depths compared to the euro, it now means perhaps 330 forints, we do not know exactly, we see that the government's budget is nothing more than injustice, unpredictability, uncertainty, a long-term unsustainable economy and a budget for social processes from a municipal point of view. This can be clearly said, since there is no municipal representative, a municipal representative body who can be calm about reading this budget. Another issue is that we will fill the holes with manual control, and in some way the settlements will operate and function, which is the task of the municipalities, and the complaint, all the problems, all the havarias, everything falls on the mayor or the body of representatives there, and no one will remember that this is the result of a very badly planned budget. From a self-government point of view, we can therefore see that support from the central budget to municipalities has been available only on a target basis and on a task-based basis since 2013. This measure was intended to ensure planning and transparency at the time, which I took seriously, and I thought it would be so. However, these principles are being violated due to practices based on legislative amendment that the subsidy appropriations provided for in the Finance Act may be amended by both the Government and the Minister of Finance in their respective powers during the year. In addition, a number of primarily operational support appropriations are set out in the legislation for which the decision to grant is made by a responsible ministerial authority without setting the parameters for the decision in the law. I've been sitting here in Parliament for 16 years, and in 16 years, I don't know how many budget amendments we've made. The government always had to consider whether it wanted to change the budget, because with the same torturing as the adoption of the budget, the amendment had to be carried over. So not the Minister of Finance, whom I respect, but personally us, together, then 365 of us have jointly amended the budget, or the majority has changed it. Now we don't need anything to do with it, once we have to vote for it, even a year or two before, we don't know what, and then we can change it like a string, everywhere. These measures neither guarantee planning nor transparency, although here in this Chamber I have heard in many cases that we are talking about a budget for planning and transparency. On the other hand, they are increasing the risk of local governments in their fiscal planning with regard to soundness, and I do not see the security of the management of municipalities in this budget in any way. From the draft budget law of 2019, I see the following trends as being very important in terms of the aid granted to the municipality. One trend is very serious for municipalities to finance one municipality from another. 167 municipalities finance, for example, the KLIK or the school system, which is nationalised by us, in terms of solidarity tax. This cross-subsidisation, in order for the municipality with greater tax power to finance the weaker municipalities, to split us in two. Before that, the split was done when the local administration was cut in half, and there was a government office and a municipality in the same district, and our clients are coming to us, so let's say we don't have to come to us, we have to go there. If you go there first, tell him no, tell him to go to the municipality. And that's how we pass people to the right and to the left. One learns when to go to the government office, when to go to the municipality, and the other annoyes and insults the whole system. So that's about what we're experiencing every day. This solidarity tax is also linked to this, which, I think, is pretty harsh. We have to be specific, XV. The solidarity tax was 270 million forints in 2017; now it has increased 2.2 times, and the solidarity tax will be 604 million forints on the basis of this budget in 2019. If this solidarity tax increases in this proportion, KLIK will be profitable because we will pay so much money as a solidarity tax. I can see that my time is on the move. I wrote myself a line reduction, but I wouldn't worry about it anymore, because, I think, there is clear and complete evidence in this budget that the chapters show a reduction in order and order. I'd like to end up drawing attention to a few things. One is that the emptying of municipalities is true not only in terms of access to resources, but also in terms of the task. Therefore, in this respect, in respect of the tasks taken or the tasks transferred to the Government Office, its rights have obviously been undermined and its possibilities of accessing funds have been reduced. Taking this into account, it is quite a blow for the municipalities that, for example, one penny of personal income tax in Budapest does not remain with the municipalities. In Budapest, after the huge number of vehicles present in Budapest, which pollutes here in Budapest, the municipalities collect taxes, but 60 percent of them are about to be removed. These are hundreds of millions in scale for the districts of Budapest. I have to say, however, that one of my fellow Members said several times this morning - that HUF 4280 billion in VAT is included in this budget, which is paid by local governments, municipalities and citizens living there, including pensioners. That's a lot of tax revenue. Or HUF 399 billion of corporate tax, which is almost 400 billion, is also generated by local governments. I believe that this withdrawal is unworthy, that there is no room for manoeuvre by the municipalities, because we can set local governments into more categories, obviously the capitals are only liable for solidarity taxes in terms of tax power, and even more 167, as I have said, and there are some places where the payment of the electric bill is a serious problem because of the endurance. But overall, this HUF 737.2 billion, which is published in the budget for municipalities, does not even reach the level. [[14.50]] Dear Presents, Dear House, Mr. President. One of the biggest losers of the 2019 budget, I can say: the municipal subsystem will be. Therefore, as a politician with local government practice and as a politician of the Democratic Coalition, I can say that this budget is not eligible and does not serve the interests of local communities. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-06-28-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have Congressman Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the importance of border protection and security. Security in all societies is a fundamental pillar that is essential for development. Next year's budget will also show that our primary objective is to protect the security of citizens. We will continue to devote more in 2019 to the security of the Hungarian people, whether it is the tasks related to illegal migration or to public security. One of the main objectives of next year's budget is to preserve and strengthen Hungary's security, which is made possible by the country's growing economy year after year. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group is committed to further strengthening and developing law enforcement areas in 2019. The introduction of the career system of law enforcement workers and the associated wage development, which opened up a new long-term career for law enforcement personnel, is an outstanding achievement. Our aim is to improve the financial appreciation of professional personnel protecting the security of Hungarians, and to make the career of law enforcement even more attractive for young people. On average, the salary of professional staff increases by 50% between 2015 and 2019. On average, the salary of the staff will increase by another 5 percent from January onwards. In addition, in 2019 there is also a financial recognition of high-quality service provision, for which the government provides HUF 12 billion. Our aim is to preserve Hungary's security and public order, to protect borders and to combat illegal migration effectively. The national government is also committed to protecting our national sovereignty and our Christian culture, as we have been empowered to do so by the Hungarian people. Without these, neither the economy, nor families nor businesses can be strengthened. Accordingly, the security of Hungarians is now guaranteed by more policemen, more police cars and more modern instruments than before. Overall, there is a HUF 12.4 billion more resources for the operation of the police than before, as well as further developments that have been started. The further strengthening of the law enforcement area is clearly measured in figures. The 2019 budget sets out the basis for this. It is of particular importance that additional resources are available to carry out the essential task of law enforcement bodies, that improvements to the protection, security of citizens and the consistent implementation of organisational changes are implemented, and that there is increased police presence in all settlements. It can be said that in 2019 the number and resources of the police will be further strengthened. The important consequence of this budget bill is that almost all law enforcement bodies can expect additional resources in the future. Thus, for public security, the operation and development of the police, the National Defence Service, as well as the Counter-Terrorism Centre, nearly HUF 350 billion, of which the police will carry out their border and depth detection tasks, including 3000 staff development, will be supported by an additional HUF 15.7 billion. The Immigration and Asylum Office will have nearly 9.4 billion forints in operation. Forint 15 billion for the expenditure related to the management of mass immigration and the expenditure related to the implementation of anti-terrorist measures, HUF 25.1 billion is provided by the budget bill before us. Since the outbreak of the migration crisis, huge masses of people have been trying to get through our country, which has been a major task for government bodies. Following the closure of our borders, the number of people who wish to cross Hungary has fallen drastically, and I would like to thank the police, the national defence, the staff of the Immigration and Asylum Office, the disaster protectors, the vigilantes, the police officers serving in the region of Veszprém, the civil wardens and the disaster protectors, as well as all those involved in the management of the migration crisis, in order to help protect Hungary and Europe. But the migration crisis has not stopped, so we need further measures to ensure the security of the borders of our country. Therefore, it remains an additional task for the government to deal with migratory pressures. For this reason, the 2019 budget has also provided an adequate financial background for the protection of borders, which is now undoubtedly the most effective instrument against illegal immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is living in the years of an emerging era, and we can also see this in the 2019 budget. It can also be said from the point of view of security. The government has been developing this area for years, guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people, strengthening public safety. This cannot be a matter of bargaining, so this area is highlighted in the 2019 budget, as has been the case in recent years. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the 2019 budget. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Here comes Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP. Here.
u2018-06-28-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On Monday, at the hour of immediate questioning, I wanted to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that the economic crisis is here, knocking on the door, as György Matolcsy indicated, while the budget does not show that we are prepared for this, and the budget does not contain any measures on how we will manage it. We have very little belief that the government wants to raise the reserve by HUF 50 billion, or that there is a provision of HUF 100 billion, which is intended by the government for wage development and hospital development of the public sector. I also pointed out that the Hungarian economy is very vulnerable, has few legs, and that economic stability can only be ensured by standing on many legs. My questions have been answered by Prime Minister that these issues should be discussed and discussed in the context of the budget. I am very sorry that the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Budget do not participate in the substantive debate. It would be important, especially at the door of a crisis, to have consensus on key economic policy, social policy and environmental policy issues, because in a difficult economic situation, it is the only way to overcome the problems. Dear House, Since the change of regime, left- and right-wing governments have changed, but there was no difference in the fact that budget planning was characterised by narrow-mindedness. All governments were constantly pushing for GDP growth, as if it were the only measure in a successful society, while they did not care that people were working at multinational companies' factories for almost nothing, nor did they care that investments were financed from loans and thus lived up to the future. They also did not address the fact that environmental damage is growing faster than the economy. One example is that in recent years economic growth has been 4 per cent, while CO2 emissions have been more than 5 per cent. In other words, economic growth has always been more important than reducing social differences or increasing pollution. The former governments and the Fidesz are no different from the future. However, it does not take a pro-green politician to realise that we have been using our environment to an ever-increasing extent since the industrial revolution. Today we are using about one and a half times the planet's natural resources, it is quite clear that this is unsustainable and that we have a shared responsibility to reduce or reverse these dramatic processes. [[15.00]] For the purposes of The budget for the year 2006 is a budget of unsustainableness. Instead of doing everything in the government's power to change direction in both economic and social and environmental policies, it will speed up processes in the wrong way. Hungarian society is moving away from the possibility of sustainable development. However, progress towards sustainability objectives, adopted by the UN in 2015, has already been dictated today, because societies are breaking up so quickly, poverty is growing so rapidly in the world and we are consuming natural resources so quickly that we are not only experiencing the future of today's young generation, but we are also putting the lives of the older generation at risk. Next year's budget and tax policy should serve an economic, social and environmental policy that shifts direction and reverses today's unsustainable processes. Dear House, Indeed, it is time to conduct the debate in Parliament on the criteria for sustainability and how these should appear in the budget. The LMP is confident that the sustainable economy is stable, which is why it stands on many feet, primarily using and developing domestic resources, using them in a sustainable way, and which is very important, helps to strengthen the local economy. At the same time, we see that the Hungarian economy has a huge dependence on global economic processes, the performance of multinational companies, the automotive industry, external energy and not least EU subsidies. There can be no question that this dependence needs to be relaxed. Turning to social policy, we should note that social policy should apply the principle of social justice, the reduction of poverty, the halting of society's separation and, obviously, the well-being of people. Obviously, we need wages, education, health care that give everyone a decent human life. Sustainable environmental policy aims to ensure a healthy human environment and the sustainable use of natural resources, and to preserve natural values. Unfortunately, for today, we have overused our environment and polluted it to such an extent that we also need to see that it is now a barrier to the development of the economy. Dear Parliament, The draft budget also shows that the government does not value the tasks of environmental and nature protection and does not take sufficient steps to resolve these tasks. The budget lacks an approach to integrating environmental aspects into sectoral economic activities, including horizontal issues such as tax and support policies, including the intelligent use of EU funds, which have an impact on natural resources and the environment. In this respect, the government's performance is not only insufficient but also directly harmful. Not only is its tax policy flawed in overtaxing the work, but also its support and development policy, energy and agricultural policy, are often only symbolic, while the taxes on the use of the environment and the burden on the environment are particularly harmful to the environment, thereby taking advantage of the chances of the present and future generations. Its approach to the development of public transport is almost unprecedented in terms of the more developed half of the world. Taking into account the budgetary tables, the financing of classical environmental and nature protection and water issues is also very limited, not to mention innovation, programmes addressing new challenges, such as adaptation to climate change, support for environmental research, environmental education and awareness-raising. The collection and evaluation of environmental data also falls under critical conditions, and without a good diagnosis the problems cannot be adequately addressed. A management of natural resources, the protection and restoration of ecosystem services, such as achieving a good ecological state of water resources, making wise use of it, soil renewal agriculture and reducing the adverse effects of climate change, would be inevitable. It should also be noted that the government has little use of resources for environmental remediation, water retention, nature conservation, energy efficiency. There is little evidence of sources to improve air purity, to reduce noise and vibration, and to reduce allergy pollen load. One way or another, the government endangers the health of millions of Hungarians and undermines their quality of life. Let's just think about it, the government's suspension of the implementation of the asbestos removal programme and the national environmental remediation programme is endangering the lives of thousands of people. Dear House, The government wants to spend nearly 140 billion forints on nuclear investment, which I believe is unnecessary, harmful, harmful to the environment and human health. In addition, with the usual tricks, taxpayers are deceived to provide money for the most damaging project of the century. The Paks II. In addition to the 106 billion project capital increase, some 33 billion would be burned in the virtual nuclear power plant expansion, only the latter item was fraudulently hidden by the draft budget under the heading of spatial development tasks in the Central Danube region for the so-called non-fence project. There are several problems with this item. On the one hand, because of the encryption of the investment contract, even the Members of Parliament do not know exactly what the Russians have to build, so they can transfer tasks and cost elements to the Hungarian state at any rate. On the other hand, if the rates shown in the draft budget are real and the additional tasks outside the fence increase the account for the Paks enlargement by around one third, the calculation on the basis of which the return on enlargement was calculated is completely false. So the project will be roughly loss-making. LMP would spend this money on something else. We would like the state to support the Hungarian families instead of building a Russian nuclear power plant of uncertain fate and unduly expensive value, so that they can make their homes more energy-efficient. Every Hungarian family could receive a HUF 1 million non-refundable grant from the price of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for a complex energy efficiency renovation. Thermal insulation, the replacement of windows and the modernisation of heating could reduce households' energy consumption and their overhead bills by half. If this were to be achieved on a national scale, it could trigger the construction of a new core power plant, separate the country from energy imports, make domestic housing more comfortable and valuable, and create tens of thousands of jobs. If the government waives all these advantages for Vladimir Putin and Rosatom, LMP cannot support that policy in any way. The budget also draws attention to other environmental problems. If it's up to the government, domestic waste management will continue to run. This process began with the entry into office of the Orbán Cabinet in 2010, and continued with nationalisation and the introduction of state price regulation, and today we are talking about the loss of all waste services in the country. A multitude of municipalities remain temporarily or permanently without adequate waste management. The stench is strangling people around an inadequately operated landfill, isn't that what we've heard here in the last few days, weeks, around Hatvan, while the performance of selective collection and recovery is now decreasing year after year according to Eurostat data. And it's costing taxpayers more and more. Next year, more than HUF 3 billion will be spent on financing the waste sector in which everything worked better before you started your amok run, and where at present, public trash storage cannot even cope with the tasks of issuing invoices. [[15.10]] At the same time, there is no money for key tasks of the state such as environmental education, support for civil society organisations in the field of environmental protection and nature protection, or remediation after already known environmental degradations. The budget provides a ridiculous amount of money to eliminate PM10 pollution causing thousands of premature deaths and hundreds of thousands of diseases each year, which has led to two infringement proceedings against the Hungarian government. According to the LMP, the primary task of the State is to ensure the right of citizens to a healthy environment. We can only accept a budget that serves the protection of the environment and health, sustainability and the future. The Orbán government's budget is about the exploitation of environmental goods and the waste of natural resources. The LMP does not intend to play a role in this. Dear Parliament, When we, the Greens, are talking about sustainability, we understand this society as much as we do about the environment. It is no accident, as in the case of the environment, that harmony and balance must be sought, and similarly, a society works well and in a sustainable manner only if the tissues of society are not allowed to be torn apart by the resources and energy at our disposal. Unfortunately, the Hungarian society after the change of regime is characterised by this process. It's breaking up at an increasing rate, and it's breaking up at more and more levels. Regional differences are growing, scissors open in the city and in the village, between graduates and secondary graduates, and there is no reduction in differences between women and men. More and more people are slipping down and narrowing down the circle that increases their standard of living and is getting richer. The wage crisis could not be dealt with by the government at all, so the exodus from Hungary continues. Although the government has increased family tax incentives, it ignores the fact that the first child is also a very serious problem. Moreover, the government has not increased the family allowance in the ninth year, so the real value of the family allowance has now fallen to about a third. Education and health are constantly deteriorating, which ultimately leads again to poor, poor quality services for the poor, while the rich are able to pay for good education and health care. Ladies and gentlemen, The wage crisis has many reasons. On the one hand, bad practice inherited and passed on from previous governments, which kept wages at a low level, and on the other hand the Fidesz government's unacceptable single-key tax system. The current wage increase is a typical example of firefighting, the government's perception that the wage crisis has become unsustainable, which needs to be changed, but there is no thoughtful planning behind it, there is no proper strategy behind it. This increase in salaries is due to increasing and worsening labour shortages. It will therefore not be a lasting solution, since the structural reasons remain unchanged. As long as the government stands by the single-key tax, which the vast majority of workers suffer from, workers' poverty will continue to grow. I can demonstrate that a recent OECD research was published recently, comparing the average salaries of the Member States in purchasing power parities, and Hungary was placed at the top-of-the-line. Among the developed economies, Hungarian averages are only worth more than Mexicans, which I think everyone feels is a shocking figure, but at the same time it is quite clear why Hungarians migrate to Western Europe to a large extent. The elimination of the wage crisis will not be postponed for LMP. One-key tax should be replaced as soon as possible for a single-track, three-key, fair tax burden, where the minimum wage is tax-free and up to three times the average wage is better for everyone. I would like to underline here and say that this is not a tax increase, as we have often received in response here. The introduction of a multi-key personal income tax system does not result in a tax increase. This merely means that higher incomes will contribute more to public tasks and lower incomes will be able to take more home. Unfortunately, poverty is not the only one exposed to workers. We live in a country where working life is not a guarantee of a peaceful and happy old age. According to statistics, some 70,000 pensioners receive benefits below HUF 50,000, and hundreds of thousands of pensioners live below the poverty threshold and the minimum living. For example, these include those who have nursed their disabled relatives for decades, after which they receive a pension of around HUF 50,000. The LMP has repeatedly initiated to increase the minimum pension amount of HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000, which is also very, very little. It is also important to see that 50,000 forints do not make a living in Hungary today. We have also initiated to make care a minimum wage for work, but the government has rejected it all the time. Unfortunately, the minimum pension increase to HUF 50,000 is also missing from the 2019 budget, but the LMP submitted it as an amendment proposal. I am very interested to see how you will decide on this, whether this amendment will be voted on. If you don't vote for it, I recommend everyone try it for at least a few months to make a living with that amount. With regard to the pension system, the dual inequality caused by gender differences is unfortunately rarely mentioned. Gender equality is particularly important for the LMP and should also be reflected in a fair and sustainable pension system. What we see today is that women's pensions are on average 14 percent lower than men's, i.e. women's disadvantage in the labour market, loss of many years from the labour market and wage disadvantage in the pension. At the same time, however, we know that men reach the retirement age in far worse health and, unfortunately, they die younger. A decent retirement is also a condition for pensions to preserve their value. In the case of pensioner inflation, weighted account should be taken of all expenditure which is typically spent more by pensioners. These include medicines, basic foods, or household energy. According to the LMP, pensioner inflation, pensioner consumer baskets would have to increase pensions in order to say that pensions have maintained their purchasing value. Dear Parliament, This budget is a guarantee from a fragmented, unsustainable Hungary. I would like to ask the Parliament, my fellow Members, with all due respect, to support and accept the proposals of the LMP amendment towards a fairer, more sustainable budget. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-28-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech, Mr Lajos Korózs, Member of the MSZP, who has applied for two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is just this genre that one cannot react when a statement is made, but I would like to recall the memory of our Members here, that Congressman Böröcz from the benches of Fidesz said that in Hungary there is a certain future for young people. Then I will join Erzsébet Schmuck a little bit, and I will mention only those countries where more than ten thousand Hungarians stay permanently. More than 10,000 people in Italy, more than 10,000 in Spain, more than 10,000 in Ireland, more than 15,000 in the Netherlands, more than 80,000 in Austria, more than 210,000 in Germany and 250,000 in the United Kingdom, most in England. Please, when we look at all of them, we add up, almost 800-900 thousand people are abroad for a longer or shorter period of time. So there's such a sure future for everyone here that these people, I don't know why they're going to England, I'm sure they're going on an adventure like our ancestors used to, but that's not what I'm seeing. If Mr Böröcz had listened to Professor Hiller's speech, he would have clearly seen that education, for example, is not intended to make children feel good here, but that is not the purpose of the budgetary resources for education. [[15.20]] If we just look at the scientific news for the last month, here's what you can see. Please, with a 3D printer, a human liver has been printed, built in and worked. A six-storey apartment house was printed in 3D in Shanghai with all-comfortable apartments. And, please, a truck without a driver went from Budapest to Austria, three trucks in a row, stood up from the site, and Schwechaton joined the site. It's the future! But it's not the far future, it's here, and this education budget is not for these purposes, it's not for this knowledge. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-06-28-70	Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, two minutes.
u2018-06-28-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to join in what has been said about the fact that, indeed, the environmental protection and the budget for the environment in Hungary today is at a very high level. In fact, the government's efforts to invest more and more in this area are completely different, as even the resources that the European Union would want to devote to improving the energy efficiency of the housing and building stock in Hungary are being taken away from the Hungarian people. You voted for it many years ago, and you came up with the idea that the resources that were intended to improve the energy efficiency of the family houses were being transferred to the public buildings have been implemented since then, and the European Union has, of course, not a word to say that you could do this, and a hundred billion-dollar sum has been taken from the Hungarian people. Of course, this meant that Hungary's climate policy objectives and energy efficiency objectives had to be undermined. For if these funds were actually spent on family houses and Hungarian people could insulate their own homes and make real cuts in terms of their own long-term interests, this would also be linked to climate policy objectives, as greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced, energy efficiency would increase, the economy would be boosted, and indeed, this would be a really good investment for Hungary. For some reason, you think that this improvement in energy efficiency can be achieved more effectively than in public buildings, but this is contrary to reality. In fact, there is still a long list of areas where the same problem exists that you regroup existing resources, whether the European Union or domestic resources, in such a way that they benefit only their own interests, but the Hungarian people do not, and this is seen in the state of the domestic environment. This is also typical of the current budget, which is why Jobbik cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-72	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2018-06-28-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several criticisms have been raised in today's debate on inferior roads. I must speak, and I feel that it must be said to me that it is unacceptable for the government to reduce the amount of money intended to improve the lower roads. Not only does this make the issue of inferior roads frivolous, but I also think it expresses the fact that it does not really matter to the government, it does not really matter about local sustainability. In order for people to stay there and not wander from rural towns, the local economy must be strengthened, and it is certain that the lower roads should ensure the circulation of small settlements among themselves. This is definitely not gonna work. Unfortunately, every weekend I face the tragic state of the lower roads. They were able to now only in the middle of the summer to take a four-kilometer lower road on which they could no longer travel, either by bicycle, life-threatening, but now they have been mucked out, but the excavation also means that the four-kilometer stretch of road has become so dimbes-hounded that it is virtually untraceable. I think that if the government is important to the countryside, if the local people are important, if it is important that the countryside does not die, then there should be much more money for the lower roads. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2018-06-28-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will now return to the pre-notified speeches by Members, the first of which will be the opinion of Mr István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Cicero wrote more than sixty years before the birth of Jesus:, Legum idcirco servi sumus ut liberi esse possimus. The duty of civilized human existence is especially for those whose confidence is in the creation of good laws, the provision and support of the conditions of sound justice, as it allows us to live a full and free human life. Our civil government brought the country back not only from bankruptcy but also from the edge of the gap in 2010. Not only did the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments take over a country suffering from the economic damage of their road-based, systematic national destruction, but also in the legislative and enforcement sense, a judicial chaos and legal degradation had to be corrected in addition to the fact that people had already lost their faith in judicial bodies and justice. In addition to the pitiful, devastating Balliberal policy of justice, we can at best compare the judicial policy of Balliberal governance to the so-called Brezsnyev slumber period, if there were no strong and exaggeration of the use of the word "truth" at all. As a member of the Judicial Committee, I would now like to share with you my summary opinion on the efforts and activities carried out by the Ministry of Justice. Regulation (EC) No 1710/2014 on judicial policy With the adoption of Government Resolution No. 13, the Government laid down the main principles which also set out the objectives of the judicial portfolio. The Ministry shall carry out its legislative tasks in order to ensure effective cooperation with the judicial system and effective representation of national interests before European and other international fora. In order to implement the judicial legislative plan, in the government cycle, it can be said with a very significant, calm conscience that it has carried out historical codification tasks through codification of the wallet, the codes of private law, criminal law, administrative procedural and administrative litigation. According to this, the implementation of the new Civil Procedure Act and the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the renewal of administrative procedures and the fulfilment of the tasks related to the entry into force of administrative proceedings were among the priorities of the period 2014-2018. During civil governance, the wallet has always paid particular attention to increasing public confidence in justice. In this context, the new procedural laws mentioned above have been adopted, and the judicial reform will begin as a follow-up. In order to strengthen public trust in justice, the Ministry of Justice has established a new basis for professional cooperation with the heads of the judiciary and prosecutor's organisation, as well as with the leaders of other legal professions and chambers. Within this framework, regular contacts with the President of the National Court Office were held, consultations with the Supreme Prosecutor, the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Law and the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries. Dear House, In the 2019 budget proposal, Chapter X consists of appropriations for expenditure and revenue from the administration of the Ministry of Justice and from appropriations managed by the chapter. Let me highlight one of the most important tasks: in 2018-2019, the Ministry of Justice is active in preparing for the establishment of a high administrative court in order to strengthen the protection of citizens' rights. Citizens have the right to seek redress against the decisions and procedures of public authorities under the Fundamental Law. [[15.30]] The aim pursued is to make procedures faster and more efficient. In recent years, we have broadened the possibilities for citizens to appeal, so we can, to say, expect more administrative court cases. Let me recall that the administrative upper court is fully in line with the historical traditions of Hungary and the practices of several other EU Member States. There are separate administrative courts in many other European countries, such as Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic and Poland. In Hungary, the Supreme Court, acting in administrative disputes, with the same legal status as the Curia, will be available after 1 January 2019, for which we have allocated the appropriate resources in the 2019 budget. To add, the first step has already been taken with the adoption of the administrative order. However, the creation of a single and autonomous administrative code of conduct alone is not enough; in my view, it is only possible to have a positive impact in conjunction with the necessary organisational restructuring arrangements within the judicial system. Dear Parliament, The Ministry of Justice intends to contribute to improving the quality of legal training through support for research and education development programmes and legal scholarships. The Ministry of Justice provided a budget of HUF 500 million in the 2019 chapter budget plan to support programmes to improve the quality of legal training, as well as in 2018. The budgetary resource allows students of rural legal faculties to create two types of scholarships. On the one hand, the Ministry of Justice's national grant of excellence is open to all law students, and the Ministry's scholarship to study is open to students in self-paid training. In addition, further education and research programmes have been launched. They support research and education development programmes that promote the scientific work of universities and faculties, in particular strengthen the cooperation of students and teachers, raise the quality of education, and cover interdisciplinary research topics involving several fields of law that take advantage of the strengths, experiences and complex approaches to current topics and practical issues. The Ministry also intends to take steps in the field of talent management in order to increase the commitment and motivation of the best law students in rural areas, as well as to increase the knowledge of the teaching and research staff of the legal faculties. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, victim assistance is a state task related to the constitutional obligation to exercise the criminal power, which serves to repare citizens' violations and disadvantages caused by criminal acts. I would like to remind you that by the end of the Justice Office and by melting it into the Ministry, victim protection, legal assistance and protective oversight tasks are also reflected in the everyday life of the Ministry. The victim protection strategy was adopted, where the topic of victim protection was highlighted. The Ministry has set itself a strategic goal to promote victim support across the board. In the further development of the victim assistance system, the development of victim support centres has been a short- and medium-term goal, with the aim of making victim assistance services accessible and accessible to victims as widely as possible. Dear House, It is also necessary to draw the attention of my fellow Members to international legal proceedings. A number of EU procedures are in progress against Hungary, which are in fact politically motivated, as part of international power games, generally supported by internal balliberal help machines and notorius reporters. For example, in the European Court of Justice, we must protect the refusal of a compulsory quota, anti-immigration legislation, the law adopted against the Soros network and the law on transparency of organisations financed from abroad. In addition, Brussels is threatening with further procedures with the forthcoming Soros report. The Ministry of Justice shall represent the Hungarian State in such cases, and shall do everything in its power to enforce national interests, to protect us against the Brussels procedures and attacks that the Balliberal opposition, which is not specifically familiar with the word of our country, greeted loudly. With regard to the 2019 budget for support for organisations and professional programmes under the Ministry's supervision, let me highlight, for example, in terms of compensation for victims of crime or even in terms of chapter appropriations for legal assistance, that those affected can expect the same scale of expenditure and support compared to the previous year. Please note that the important objective of the wallet remains to increase legal competitiveness. The Ministry can contribute to Hungary's economic performance by creating, simplifying and making it more transparent and reducing administrative burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, we can conclude that the Ministry of Justice is a decisive chapter in Hungary's central budget, which includes the necessary cover for achieving the objectives set out in the law, and with the help of God, this will serve as a legal reflection and moral expectation. I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the budget presented. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-06-28-76	Here comes the representative of Jobbik, Congressman Philip Erik. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-77	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I've been rushing my head here, as we've been talking about billions in the last few days, billions flying around, tens of billions flying around in this budget. I tell you the truth that I am a little disappointed, and I am very disappointed, because a very important item is included in this year's draft budget of HUF 53 million, and this is Hungary's budget for animal protection. I don't think I have to say it very strongly if I say that this amount leads to a ridiculous, even directly humiliating situation, creating a situation for all animal lovers, for all civil society organisations, for all Hungarians for whom animal protection is important, and who regard it as a matter of heart. In fact, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has, on many occasions in recent years, drawn attention to the anomalies in the field of animal protection, on the one hand, the legislative shortcomings and, on the other hand, the huge budget deficit that the Fidesz government seems to have failed to remedy in this draft budget again, as, once again, this HUF 53 million animal protection item in this budget is humiliating. I do not know why the Hungarian government considers animal protection to be such a stepchild, because many of our amendments, a number of our amendments, have been made to try to ensure that if the Fidesz government no longer intends to assign money to animal protection, at least provide the legal background, a strong legal background with which we can prevent the various animal tortures and cruel animal murders. I think we haven't been able to get one step at a time compared to this, and perhaps even risk being in a much more difficult and critical situation than we were a few years ago. I hope that the news that has happened in everyday life has also been delivered to government representatives. For example, in Helvecia a dog had his head cut off, or a mutilated animal was found in Zuglo a few days ago. This proves that the current government treats animal protection as an extremely stepdaughter. I am sure that during the coming period, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will be so strong and will fight out, hearing the voices of the animalists, the thousands of animal lovers, hundreds of NGOs who seek to draw attention to such and similar brutal cruelty that they will not be able to perform any more. On the other hand, one of the prerequisites for this would be that all good Hungarians, us, Members of Parliament, you, dear pro-government representatives, financially support animal protection. [[15.40]] At the time when we are talking about billionaire stadium constructions, I think it is not too much to ask for a few extra ten million or a few hundred million forints to be transferred to the area of animal protection. These were also the subject of my amendments. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to support a major increase in the budget line for animal protection of about HUF 100 million, as I stress that there are 260 civil society organisations in Hungary, according to the databases currently available on the Internet, that deal with animal protection and animal welfare today, as far as I know. These organisations have at their disposal a total of 1 percent of personal income tax paid, as well as their own offerings to various donors, various animal friends and groups. I think that if we divide this 53 million forints by 260 noble and charity-friendly NGOs, then we get an extremely humiliating amount of money, from which virtually nothing can be done for a year. I am also sure that Members are aware that such a noble mission, such as animal rescue, animal protection, will cost considerable money and considerable financial sacrifice. Needless to say, most of these organisations take in injured, sick or tortured animals, the necessary vaccinations are, of course, paid for, the costs involved, whether petrol costs are of course incurred, or they also undertake and pay for hospital treatments for these animals, which often, I can even say, not only on a small number of occasions, can amount to 10,000 HUF, but also to a hundred thousand HUF items. So I would like to ask the kind Members to support this amendment, my proposal, with a significant amount of money, because this should not only be spent on animal rescue, but also on animal protection, but also on a new educational prevention system, which, I believe, could be a challenge or expectation for us in the European Union. After all, a lot of animal cruelty, I think it would be preventable if we were to draw the attention of Hungarian students to how to treat animals, how much joy, how much love an animal can give in everyday life. I also missed this possibility in this draft budget. My other amendment would also seek to address a problem that I think everyone can meet in everyday life, as well as us Members of Parliament. As mayor, I have unfortunately experienced this extremely difficult circumstance caused by the problems of stray animals, especially stray dogs. It seems to me that this is also a kind of stepchild of the government, because there is no adequate source behind it, there is no proper concept behind it, there is no proper will behind it to deal with this problem. The options currently available, which are either in the form of the dogry settlements, the existence or absence of which is highly questionable, since we do not know whether the pets, the pets that get into such a dogry colony, can stay there for how long and can even get out of there. On the other hand, it is still possible to place at various animal shelters. I think that this does not need to be exaggerated, we all know what their capacity is, and they often operate at 200 percent, and also these NGOs, who are doing this kind of charitable activity, are trying to survive beyond strength, and, of course, do not receive any tangible state support in this extremely noble mission of theirs, in this very noble struggle from the state. In fact, they are trying to meet the conditions of application, they are trying to include any sources of tender in the system, and of course they are trying to maintain themselves from 1 percent of personal income tax. So this situation, this untenable state, must also be dealt with by the government and managed by the Parliament, so my proposal in the Finance Act would be to redeploy or initiate a much more moderate amount than in previous years, and this would be a HUF 250 million item for national animal deconstruction, or at least for the start of this year. I believe that the kind of coercion that lies with civil society organisations, municipalities, notaries, public sector inspectors, field guards or anyone, in particular, with regard to the reduction or reception of stray animals, is a fight that cannot be successful without the effective assistance of the government. Therefore, the aim of this national animal decontamination action would be a kind of prevention, a kind of preventive effect, namely to try to spare those poor, unfortunate animals that are on the streets from unnecessary, unexpected further growth and thus create a more livable, normal environment for them and, of course, for Hungary. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to try to treat the area of animal protection as a much more important area in the future, as a much more important matter. This could be a very good reason for adopting and supporting our proposals for amending the budget, the amendments made by Jobbik, on these issues, as well as, in the future, other initiatives to amend legislation that we would really like to create for Hungary an animal protection at EU level. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Winning Congressman Vinnai, Fidesz representative is coming. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about education, including vocational training and adult education, but before I do that, I would like to set some general targets for the budget, because they say that a good budget can achieve financial stability and economic growth. In my opinion, this draft, which is before us, is such a budget. Hungary's budget for 2019 will be a budget for safe growth, as it has been properly planned and increased the reserve base for Members. There may be a threat to this budget from both sides. One is that in the Western part of Europe there are already certain economic crises and the migration crisis. We can't ignore these circumstances. As regards its impact on the economy, since it has a 4.1 percent economic growth, a 1.8 percent government deficit and a further decline in public debt has been going on for years - and it also includes investments worth 4,000 billion forints. I think that this is good news and good news for the people, so that all Hungarians can work, because the goal is to achieve full employment, because anyone who wants and can work can work and is worth it, so that he can get a decent wage for this job. [[15.50]] Economists say that total employment represents unemployment of around 2.5-3 percent, as there are so many fluctuations in the labour market. If we look at this, we have come close to this, because in 2010, unemployment was 12 percent, last year, 2017 3.8 percent. Therefore, further work needs to be done on this and the budget can provide a basis for this. It's about education. I think it's possible to connect the two. When we talk about education in general, education and quality education improve the country's economic competitiveness, because we need a qualified workforce as much as possible, and we are talking about the fact that there is a shortage of workers today, and there is a problem with recruitment. Therefore, the principle of access to quality education should be applied to all in education, and education should also promote the development of future players in the economy and improve the quality of life of learners and educators. My colleague, Mária Kállai, has already said in a previous statement that the role of the state in this area is increasing, the responsibility of the state is increasing. We have also increased this to ensure that schools are stable, there is a stable background for public education, and even vocational training through vocational training centres I would like to mention this in a little more detail - and, of course, the debates that István Hiller, who is currently chairing, has to be held in education. I listened with an open ear, but for me it is a little dissonant that when there is a round table for public education and we want to discuss certain educational issues, the PISA survey, which was mentioned several times; but I would mention the TIMSS survey or the PIRLS survey, where Hungarian students were better involved, and this is a methodological issue. It is also possible to argue what percentage of GDP is now being spent on this in an educational budget of about 2,000 billion. I think it's 5.2 percent, but it's also a methodological question. We are debating this between 4,75 and 5.2, but I think that spending 5-5.2 percent of GDP on education means that it works in a stable way. Of course, you can argue on content issues about how the National Basics plan changes, how we try to develop creativity, skills, individualise education, and who chooses what educational institution, because I am referring back to the words of István Hiller, because he told us exactly what kind of schools there are, even bringing private schools here, that many of the wealthy choose private schools. That means the school system is diverse. Education is, of course, important to all of us. Allow me three sentences on this. One: access to education is essential for everyone. It was for this purpose that the state took over the schools, equalized, say, a XII. the district municipality has been able to add more to the education, such as Tiszadada or Tiszadob located next to Tisavasvári, two smaller settlements whose municipalities did not have enough income, could not add, so they were indebted and had operational problems. It has already been said today that the government has implemented a debt consolidation of HUF 1300 billion in 2012-13, as the smaller municipalities were essentially indebted for operational and, of course, development purposes, but also for county seats, as they themselves could not maintain this institutional system. Returning to this point three: one is access, the other is chance. Today, it can be seen that the Hungarian education system must essentially compensate for the social disadvantages of the family. We still have a job to do. We still have a lot of work to do. The third is talent management, recognition, care of talent, and achievement of results, as Hungarian students show how talented and creative they are in several international, European or world competitions. Returning to the figures and finishing it, I am going to switch to vocational training: budget support will increase to HUF 851.1 billion instead of the original 802 billion in 2019. That's a 6-percent increase. If I add that in higher education, as mentioned by Mária Kállai today, there is an increase of about 11.1 percent, i.e. the support of HUF 287.6 billion is increasing by HUF 30 billion more than the initial estimate of 2018 - this shows that education is very important for this government. So education doesn't lay low, education works, content changes, and it has a stable financial background, a stable maintenance background that is most noticeable in vocational training institutions. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to talk a little bit about vocational training, because vocational training has a very important impact on the labour market, and we are now in Hungary on the need to develop vocational training dynamically, the relationship between training institutions and economic operators, entrepreneurs, companies, practice-oriented training, dual training, which, in fact, we have told everyone about German adaptation - and, in fact, the expansion of training supply is also on the agenda. The booming economy needs continuous and growing skilled labour supply and therefore it is important to develop vocational training. How? On the one hand, vocational training centres are where vocational schools, vocational schools and vocational schools belong by strengthening them. The budget also has HUF 150 billion in own revenue for the vocational training centers, which are the owners of vocational training institutions. In recent years, and now in the budget, it can be seen that since the maintenance background is secure, the institutional system must be flexible, efficient and increase training and retraining supply. One of the most important areas, I think, is the reduction of deficit trades. In order to reduce shortages, we can achieve a Szabóky Adolf Scholarship. We have increased it from 12 to 20, at least expressis verbis we have said that there are 20 missing professions, and those who take training here receive a scholarship. This is an increasing number of people, which means that reducing deficit trades is our fundamental goal. Of course, the aim is also to strengthen cooperation between vocational training institutions and economic operators. Such cooperation is the development of workshops, investment-enhancing training programmes and close cooperation with economic chambers in vocational training and adult training. Let me tell you something new. I do not know if you have noticed that there is something new for those who have looked at it in detail, and that the budget is spending some HUF 6 billion in 2019, so that in the year ahead, we will develop sectoral training centres and corporate training centres. If I may, I would like to say that a sectoral training centre is a non-profit entity set up by industry profit-oriented companies with the aim of coordinating and cooperating their training and innovation capacities to train students. So it is not created by a company, but by a sector, such as the construction sector, because we can see what kind of housing fever there is in Hungary as a result of the CSOK, how many permits are issued. Therefore, train students to ensure that you and the sector are recruited. In the sectors requiring state-of-the-art technology, investment and development costs are very significant, and I think it is easy to see that, since there is industry 4.0 robotisation, but the training capacities thus created are typically suitable for modelling, training, prototype production, not mass production. So they carry the money, which is why we need corporate and sectoral training centres. If I can say one thing, because I have listed more here, for example, the development of the Siemens Metal Industry Training Centre is based on German dual training, so the large company can develop its own practical training site. [[16.00]] I thought it was important to say this because vocational training is at the centre of attention, and it must be the engine for further development of the economy that skilled workers are available or not. A few words about adult education. The structure of adult education also needs to be changed, and in recent years adult education programmes have been attempted to be added to vocational training centres. They appear as more transparent, stable, higher standards, and therefore in February 2018 normative support has been put in place, which has made the provision of tasks stable, predictable and smoothly funded. In 2015-16, some 20,000 people started to acquire qualifications and then to acquire qualifications in adult education. This has stabilized in about 55 thousand people to 16-17, then to 17-18, and you can see that as the budget total, the cash register is available from top to top 12.3 billion forints. With the government's permission, this can be expanded if there is a need. We calculate that there will be about 53-55 thousand people per year in this system. But if the demand is higher, then the government's permission will allow you to spend more money on it. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps before I tell you my summary, let me tell you that the training Subpart of the National Employment Fund contains nearly HUF 32 billion, some of which is the Adolf Szabóky vocational training grant already mentioned. This is very important because it is important for children who come into vocational training to receive a scholarship, because it is also important for them to receive such a scholarship because of the family background. This has increased to nearly 40,000 people. The VET bridge programme, with HUF 1 billion in it, is very important. If I hadn't told you, the Adolf Szabóky grant is worth 9 billion forints, so I'm going to split 32 billion forints now. The aim of the VET bridge programme is to provide primary education or part vocational training. This is also a very important thing, I think Gergely Arató may have mentioned school leaving, early school leaving. Yes, we are doing something about it, and not 12.5 percent, as he said, we are at 11.8 percent, and we should be down to 10 percent by 2020. This is a very difficult task, but I think that growth has been stopped. There's a billion forints here. For the development of workshops, 8 billion HUF is available to support the vocational training and adult education system of the Chambers, 5.6 billion HUF is available for the development of the mentioned sector training centre and company training centre. I believe that, overall, these are really good news from the area of education, and let me conclude that, while there are opposition representatives who say that HUF 15.4 billion is an additional resource available for education in 2019, at least as an initial appropriation, that is not too much. In my opinion, this shows that there is an additional source of education and that the government is paying attention to this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly recommend the adoption of the entire budget, including support needs for vocational training and adult education in the Ministry of Innovation and Technology chapter. I hope the opposition representatives will also consider it before pressing a button. I can see that they're thinking very seriously about saying yes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-28-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Legendary magicians always say watch my hands. CHAPTER XX At the end of the century and one of the greatest magicians in our current history, he said in his legendary sentence that they should not watch what I say, but watch what I do. Now is the moment of truth, because the budget is always the story where you can look at what you have done, what your intentions are, and in what direction you want to take the world. They are at the beginning of the third two-thirds, ladies and gentlemen, the third two-thirds, when the past eight years are already smiling in this House, but also in the street, if you try - it is about the past eight years that we are talking about your eight years. The question is, therefore, what future do you imagine for Hungary in the third two-thirds case? What do you think of Europe? What do you think the world is going to do in this region? How do you think about organizing Hungary's future? The budget seems to be, if we look at it, a set of logical figures, obviously a set of figures that are more understandable and understandable to the experts, but what I would like to say is that it is a age document, a stamp in the present, which shows what you think you want in the next period. I've seen what I've seen today, and you've always been strong in that, that you've given every single year, every era, every budget, you're always trying to come up with good markers. If a cautious criticism can be expressed: this is not the best indicator, few will be able to take over this, you said that this is a budget for safe growth. I would like to say to you a simple and inexpensive joke many times today, but it is important that you understand this definitively - if you knew at the time of submission that safe growth would apply to the euro/forint exchange rate, I think you would have used a different term. And when you say that this is a family budget, and by the way, certain parts of family support are falling in this budget, I would very much like you all to understand, or at least you know that we know that when you talk about families, you only think about your own families. They only think of those close to the family, so they'll be good for them in the next period. As the Socialist Party has said in the lead vocal round, saying that this is an anti-future budget, I would add that this is a budget for silent survival, you want to survive 2019 quietly. They see that there is some movement in the world, and from this movement they think that, by the way, an open economy, open country such as Hungary, may have certain events. What you are simply doing is giving everyone who is not important to you - which is not enough to live, it is difficult to die from; I think the formula is right. And what is important to you for some reason, and this is not important to the country, it is important to you for some reason, and it is provided with significantly more budgetary resources. But then let's look at some of his remarks about what this budget shows if we try to dig a little down to the roots. What do you think of the role of the state based on this budget? It is clear that this is not hidden when they comment, any speaker, and the budget shows this: centralization, centralisation, centralisation everywhere and in everything. They think that it is only right for the state to try to solve all the problems, and they are able to narrow it down even further, and that the head of the state is running the government or the head of government itself. In this wave of centralization, I do not want to talk about this for a long time, I would just like to say to you as a parentheses note: in this you have reached a traditional and traditional institution such as the Academy of Sciences. I would like to say what a speaker said this morning: consider this, sit down, think about it. It is not worth opening each front at the same time in Hungary. What do you think about the budget and what is the concentration of income, what is the collection of income in Hungary, and how is this, how and how can it be used? [[16.10]] In this, too, the intention is quite clear and clear: to take away as much as possible from people who cannot defend themselves, and to distribute these money among the wealthier, to distribute it back to multinational companies, to distribute it back to friends, and sometimes even to finance the Prime Minister's hobby, not with little money. You will now, I understand, implement a Christian Democratic policy after illiberal democracy. Here the question arises as to whether they are engaged in a group meeting, in other professional workshops, to make public burdens fairer. I think that at all times one of the most important things for each government, every single majority, is how, how to make public burdens more proportionate among people, how, how to provide additional opportunities for those who cannot or cannot do this on their own initiative. I would like to tell you that, obviously, there will be some kind of rebuttal - the sentences that you are talking about a spectacular tax reduction are not true for all the Hungarian people, because although the personal income tax rate is actually decreasing, the single-key system will not want to repeat the sentences of Erzsébet Schmuck, I agree with him, that the corporate tax is indeed falling, so let us put in brackets here to see who can use it, and who is the biggest beneficiary of this, but in the meantime, the taxes on consumption, which, by the way, strike a significant part of people the most, are unprecedentedly high in this country and put people in a very difficult position. Let's look at the state aid system. In the European Union, what the state assigns to various companies is unprecedentedly high as aid. This clearly shows to me, to us, that while you are talking about national interests in a particular political section, while talking about how Hungary can defend itself on its own initiative, while showing some amazing openness in this area, you are amazingly opening yourself up and opening up Hungary to a certain multinational capital. I do not necessarily say that this is one of the worst decisions, and I would just like to say to you that when you talk in politics about protecting Hungary, while it is only perhaps less noticeable for the people, through these state aids, you are very seriously supporting companies that are otherwise trying to keep away with their other hands, or at least in communication. We have just heard about full employment, and what a good aim that is, if I remember correctly, that is what my fellow Member said in his speech, we are talking about practically full employment. I would like to talk about when there will be effective employment in Hungary, when it can be said that there is vocational training, training in Hungary that is actually training people in the professions that may be needed, and we do not know that this is 400, 500 or 600 thousand, different numbers, do not have to work abroad. The interesting thing is that while you put together spectacular programmes in this regard a few years ago, you have defined budget lines, and compared to that, we see that you no longer speak about it discreetly, there is no mention of it, there is nothing in the budget. And then let's talk about one more important thing, because I think one of Hungary's very serious problems is that there are serious territorial disparities in this country. They do not address this issue either at the level of communication or at the level of the budget, so that, in view of the 262 regions of the European Union, four of the seven are in the last 12 regions. Compared to this, you are talking more about the programme of modern cities, and you do not deal in any way with how, how, with budgetary means and obviously government intentions, Hungary's problem can be solved, which, once again, will be the biggest problem within decades: how, how, how the population migrates, how, how the industry moves from the small regions, the villages, and how, how, Hungary's life is concentrated in the big cities. In this context, we have come to what I would also like to say very briefly, which is one of the most important sub-schemes of the current state, governance, this municipal system. Here we are witnessing an eight-year stealth reform in the municipal system. Whatever you say, I have heard the numbers increase on some of the sections, Mr. Secretary of State this morning talking about 700 billion in development resources - but the reality is that the autonomy of the municipalities has decreased significantly over the last eight years. There are two ways to do this, ladies and gentlemen, and you will try both. One option is not to provide budgetary resources in one way or another where they are needed. The other option is to take away powers. Here again, I would like to repeat what I have already said, that everything is centralized, that there is less room for manoeuvre for the municipalities, that they have less and less opportunity to implement, either from their own sources of budget or according to their own intentions, what they think of the world. Perhaps it would also be worth considering, in the context of the territorial disparities mentioned earlier, that perhaps more opportunities and more responsibility should be given to small regions, more opportunities for local authorities, precisely because there is the principle, the intention, which was formulated in 1990, which is the principle that no one on the happier half of the world would argue that locals do know what is most important for them. There might be some settlements that would build something else instead of a stadium if they didn't decide for him. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is still possible to say that the task funding has answered all the problems. In fact, what I can say is that the municipalities are trying to patch up the various gaps, but in no way is a general solution to the dilemmas that exist in the municipal system, this system called task funding, which, I say again, is, in fact, differing in one name or another from what resources are actually provided to the municipal system. In the list I have tried to highlight the fundamental, I think, the items that define politics, what you think of the world, where Hungary is going, and let me say another short line of thought that it is not very clear whether you have thought carefully and properly about the fact that there are budget lines that have consequences in the coming years, decades, which I do not think are precisely thought through by anyone who is voting for this budget today. Sometimes you talk about a few billion forints, a few hundred million forints as a victory report, while there are decades of commitments in the budget which, once again, significantly determine where the country will go. You understand that I mean Paks, the Budapest-Belgrád railway, the move of the government to the Castle, the Liget programme, the Modern Cities programme, not to mention the stadiums, which must not only be built, but also be operated afterwards. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to say that politics in this regard is an ungrateful and cruel world, because when we look at it very closely, there is a lot of things that seem beautiful, and if someone is able to shape the words properly and well, they can even in the short term make people believe that they are good and that everything is okay. When we look back on these 9, 10 or 11 years of governance in the next period, which you will be able to hold behind you, I think that the thinking that with a very strong political mandate is that two thirds are a serious political mandate that you have - in a very favourable economic climate, as most of our potential partners have good economic indicators, with the possibility of involving a very significant external resource, since the peak of EU funds has been in the last six to seven years, we see that the next seven years' budget cannot be expected to amount to a similar amount, so a large political mandate, a favourable economic climate, and a chance of involving a very significant external resource have missed a serious chance and opportunity in Hungary. You're not a XXI. They built a century-old country, you took Hungary backwards in time, it's not a modern country, it's not an innovative country. [[16.20]] It is not about what we are so proud of, you and we are rightfully proud of, that the talent of Hungarian people is capable of achieving success in the world from certain small things. You're trying to take back the wheel of history when you're creating jobs where you're doing a training system where you're trying to freeze things in health care, so I can tell you that the world is moving away at high speed, and we're here. Today, it seems that in the short term, people can be convinced that this is good for us as it is, but I think that there will be a lot of work to be done in the next period to make up for all that you have missed. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-28-82	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, György Hubay, is next. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, In the course of yesterday, Hungary's draft annual budget for 2019 came before us. I sat through yesterday's debate day, and I felt that, by the way, the budget was yesterday at least, and today, a little bit of the hit was in the field of defence or law enforcement. This is the topic I have chosen, by the way, which will be the course of my speech today, among other things, because I am a member of the National Assembly of the Defence and Police Commission, and in recent years as the municipal representative of the city of Miskolc, I have dealt with law and order issues as chairman of the Commission. Of course, I will also address some other issues, and I would also like to share some thoughts with you on other topics related to my constituency, Miskolc-Diósgyőr. The 2019 budget presented by the Government is a budget for security. In its planning, the national government focused on maintaining Hungary's security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families and achieving full employment. By enforcing the will of Hungarian people, we must guarantee Hungary's security, border protection and the fight against illegal migration. Security will be one of the most important challenges in the coming years because of the immigration that has hit Europe and the terrorist threat and the consequences of public security. We will therefore continue to provide and even increase significantly the resources needed to strengthen public security and improve defence. The national government is also committed to the protection of national sovereignty, the preservation of Christian culture, the work-based society, the tax reduction policy, and the support of Hungarian families and children. This is also the basis for budget planning. Turning to defence, it is a very important number: almost HUF 513 billion more will be available for defence next year. According to the government's budget proposal, the budget for defence spending will increase by HUF 86 billion, so next year I will repeat it to almost HUF 513 billion for defence. This amount corresponds to more than 1.16 percent of the nominal GDP forecast for the future, and this figure was around 1 percent in this year's budget. As early as 2012, the Government decided not to reduce the defence budget to nominal value by 2016 and to increase it by at least 0.1 per cent of GDP per year from 2016. Defence expenditure will reach the 2 percent GDP ratio expected by NATO by 2024. According to the proposal, the defence portfolio would also contribute 4.1 billion HUF to NATO's budget next year. The defence budget includes HUF 100 million for the expenditure on the deployment of standby sub-units under NATO and the EU's offer, and HUF 580 million for the EU's common defence funds. The defense wallet is expected to receive more than HUF 38 billion in revenue next year. Next year's budget also sets out that the proceeds of the sale of assets that have become redundant for defence purposes should be used to modernise the defence technology and to improve the ability and equipment of defence to adapt flexibly to the changing security environment and to NATO's expectations. The portfolio plans a budget of HUF 14 billion for the expenditure related to the management of mass immigration. Next year, the armed and police career model launched in 2015 will continue to increase the salary of soldiers. In his previous speech, one of my fellow Members mentioned that, in view of recent years, the overall salary of soldiers increased by about 50 percent. It is also important to mention that HM contributes HUF 12 million to support the activities of civil society organisations in the field of war grave care and war tomb research, including the operation of the public foundation implementing the Law on War Care by HUF 14 billion. It is proposed that the Military National Security Service receive more than HUF 20 billion from the defence budget. The Hungarian Defence Health Centre will receive more than HUF 38 billion from the defense portfolio. In addition, a HUF 319 million investment fund was also planned for the Budapest Honvéd Hospital in the budget. In addition, the MH Health Center is expected to receive almost HUF 29 billion in revenue next year. The Kratochvil Károly Honvéd High School and College in Debrecen receive HUF 344 million from the defence budget, as well as HUF 1.1 billion in support of the Defence Sports Association in Debrecen next year. In addition, the budget includes more than HUF 524 million for the development of Defence Sports Centres. Moving on to law enforcement. With regard to the Ministry of the Interior, I would also like to highlight an important number: you can spend HUF 23.5 billion more on tasks related to the implementation of anti-terrorist measures. So the Ministry of Interior can expect a total of HUF 773 billion in 2019. The chapter calculates an income of HUF 27 billion, which is almost the same as planned for this year, so the budget support for the portfolio is expected to be HUF 746 billion next year. The most striking change is that while spending on managing mass immigration was set at HUF 50 billion by 2018, by 2019 the budget would be spent less than HUF 35 billion for the same purpose, only HUF 15 billion. At the same time, spending on anti-terror measures will increase significantly, while HUF 1.5 billion was planned for this purpose this year, next year HUF 25 billion will be spent on this. The National Defence Service can spend a little more HUF 4.5 billion on personal benefits instead of HUF 4.4 billion. [[16.30]] The budget of the Counter-Terrorism Centre does not fundamentally change, and in 2019 the amount of personal benefits will remain at HUF 13 billion, but they can spend a little less than this year in rem and 2.3 billion instead of 2.6 billion. The amount of personal benefits is increasing in the police department, with HUF 234 billion being spent on this project against HUF 218 billion this year. We still need to talk about the Constitutional Protection Office. The amount increases from HUF 6.9 billion to HUF 8 billion, from HUF 13.8 billion to HUF 14 billion at the National Security Service. The Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre can spend HUF 1.19 billion on personal benefits instead of HUF 1.14 billion this year. In disaster management, the amount of personal benefits may increase from HUF 55 billion to HUF 56.5 billion, but the planned amount of investments is the same as that of HUF 3.7 billion. The amount of personal benefits does not change significantly at the Immigration and Asylum Office, where HUF 4.76 billion is planned for this purpose this year, and some more for HUF 5 billion in 2019. Also, the amount of personal benefits is increasing to the greatest extent in the water boards, from 11.5 to 15.8 billion this year. Of the appropriations managed by the chapter, a significant amount of HUF 1.2 billion can be used to tackle water, environmental and natural disasters, which is the same as this year. 3 billion HUF is planned to ensure domestic support for the EU's tender for consolidation of government networks, increasing capacity and performance, and developing the institutions' network access and connections. We also have to tell you about the vigilante alliance. You've just been celebrating. According to the proposal, the National Citizens' Association will receive more than HUF 1 billion in funding next year, and there will be no change in support for voluntary fire-fighting associations and rescue organisations, and 700 million forints per year will continue to be planned for this purpose. Some decrease, from HUF 14.4 billion to HUF 14.2 billion in professional career-related expenditure, while still around HUF 2.8 billion is available for expenditure related to the cash redemption of professional staff. Crime prevention is also important. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior would support the national crime prevention strategy's task system by HUF 822 million. Overall, with regard to the two wallets, given the numbers, I believe that the calm functioning of the two wallets will be ensured next year. Allow me to say a few words about my constituency, I am the representative of the constituency of Miskolc-Diósgyőr and the five other settlements in this district. It must be said that, this year and in recent years, the government's budgets have provided the city with the investments that I could only say a few more important things. I think not many cities with county rights can boast that their public transport has been completely renewed, which in our case meant that there are brand-new trams and brand-new buses in the city. I think it's a significant thing. By the way, we place great emphasis on tourism, tourism. This area is directly related to the renewal of the Castle of Diósgyőr and the completion of the first stage of construction. We hope that the second phase will continue shortly. We've built the field of knights' tournaments. With regard to Lillafured, we have renewed, re-enchanted the hanging gardens, and this is also a serious tourist attraction. I mean, I don't think there's much to talk about about Miskolctapolca, because everyone knows about the cave bath, as it is a world-famous European attraction and spa, but it was renewed in 2010 with the management of the Fidesz-KDNP city management at the first pace of the Miskolctapolca spa. We hope that the second phase will be implemented soon. The program of Modern Cities has already been discussed here, some of them have spoken disparagingly about this investment process, which in our city means that it is nearly HUF 3 billion that renews the historic Avast, which means, among other things, that the precipitation water drainage, renovation, rejuvenation of roads, public lighting and, of course, the construction of the new main square in the city centre will also be made out of this amount, and a number of attractions. They also spoke disparagingly of stadiums. I just want to talk to you about the stadium in Nutmeg. We handed it over a good month ago, actually, it's a HUF 11.5 billion investment. I think, although it is not my place to talk about the situation of Hungarian football, this is a problem for many, many, many decades, but in order to get a sport to the right level, it is necessary to invest properly. I think that the government is on the right track in this regard, because there are several stadiums built in the country. But remaining at the stadium in Miskolc and Diósgyőr, this modern stadium was built according to UEFA classifications, and I would also like to add that, besides Ferencváros, I think it has the country's most serious and devoted support camp, and this cheering camp deserved this stadium because it stuck to the team through fire and water. We very much hope that this team, Nutmeg, DVTK will be effective in the coming years. So, overall, perhaps finally, the 2019 budget presented by the government was a budget for safe growth, and in planning the national government was concerned with maintaining Hungary's security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families and achieving full employment. So I am sure that the figures, plans and budget preparation in the budget itself are a sound, professional, professional budget, which will ensure the safe functioning of Hungary in 2019. So I highly recommend to my fellow Members that the 2019 budget be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-84	Congressman Székely, DK, next. Here.
u2018-06-28-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to get a little closer to the budget from the average people, because it's their life that's going to determine. It's our life. Before I begin what this budget will bring in in the year 19 I would like to start by talking a little bit about what is going on now, because we can talk about something compared to what. So, how are we doing with the life situation of the Hungarian ordinary people these days? Well, not good. Today, 1 million people are announced on minimum wage in Hungary, this is 138 thousand forints, and more than 1 million people's pensions are not reaching or just reaching 100 thousand forints. [[16.40]] That's two million people. In addition, there is a strong one-million-dollar crowd trying to hold on, not to work at one, but at two or three jobs to create that amazing luxury so that they can go on vacation with Lake Balaton for a week. If your employer lets you go, because you were able to write a Labour Code six years ago, when trade unions' rights were also abolished for a substantial resistance that workers could be recalled even from their vacation. Here we go. Workers who are usually reported black because of tax burdens, so they don't have papers, they go to work, they get paid weekly, but they may not get the money. Ask the workers in Csepel, or any road worker, whether they get it or not. If there's no money this weekend, their employer will tell them to work, Józsika, and I'll give it to you next week. What can you do? Since he doesn't have a union or a contract, he's gonna keep working, and he's hoping he's gonna get paid. But you've not only screwed with two-handed workers for the last eight years since you've been in government, you've screwed other people. For example, in the Széchényi Library, one of the most important cultural buildings in Hungary, employees have a gross wage of HUF 180,000. Don't be surprised if not one of them works today in Hamburg, Germany and England as furniture tables or furniture assemblers; it is true, there for EUR 2000 and housing. It's no better in the country. In South Baranya, but in all the other counties, in the small villages of our northern counties, people are fleeing. Kisbudmér, this is a thriving Shvab village half an hour from Pécs, it has flourished a long time ago, there are hardly any residents in it now, there is no job, there is no land to buy, because you, my dear fellow Members, have bought all the land there, and therefore cannot produce either. But the situation in Pécs is no better. In the city that was the cultural capital of Europe a few years back, there is a piece of optometrist. He's the man who's looking at people's eyes to make sure they see right. There are one, two of them in this town today, and the others have already left for the West. By the way, not necessarily Western Europe, but Western Hungary, as our northern, eastern and southern counties are evacuated, so our slightly luckier Western counties are filling up. So from Sopron, from a livable town of 50-60 thousand people in the last two to three years, it has become a city of 110,000 people in Hungary. But there is no better situation for the villages in the forest, where people have already realized that they should not have blown up the cooperative system, which gave this country a fantastic agriculture. They'd regroup now, but there's nothing, because, as I said before, there are no lands, but they're either you or the oligarch near Fidesz. You can go there and get 500-600-700 forints a day in the sun, or you can go from these areas, right? So, we're at this point, that's the case; and now let's see what there's money in this budget of yours and what it isn't. We have 30 billion forints in government communication, please, no matter what, we know that our country, although it doesn't have an army, is at war. We are constantly fighting against all kinds of NGOs, against the European Union, sometimes even against the United States of America. We are not fighting Russia and China, because they are now friendly countries. Our history has always helped us when we approach these countries, especially Russia. So, we're going to spend 30 billion on you promoting your own program with our taxpayers' money. There's money for that. And then there's money on reserve, because it seems that whatever victory reports you're getting from you these days, you're seeing the economic process and you're sensing that there's a problem, so you're putting aside a relatively large reserve. Then there's another interesting piece of information, and the unemployment benefits next year will be 25-30 billion higher than this year. It seems that the total employment you talk so much about within these walls, not only does it not come, but it will get worse. Then there's money for Paks, Paks II. We're going to build this 30-40-year-old power plant with a very high loan, and it's going to cost 100 billion from the budget, as Erzsébet Schmuck said, plus another HUF 33 billion from the budget, which was introduced in another place, but that's where it's going to go. Then there are prestigious investments, the reconstruction of the Buda Castle, the reconstruction of Kossuth Square, the Liget project 70 billion. 100 billion to major sports and stadiums. 90 billion to go. For the record, it is quite clear that the opposition knows precisely that sport is a good thing. I've played sports myself, I'm playing sports now, my son is playing sports, I can only tell you to move as much as possible, and in fact it would be best for Hungary to have people play a lot of sports, and not for the 10-20-30 thousand people involved in visual sports, these amazing fortunes would obviously not go to them, but to the infrastructure - but to the ordinary people. Hungary is the fourth most obese country on this planet. With this money we spend on these sports, we should not be raising stadiums, but we should start making people sport as much as possible in Hungary. That's what they should be persuaded to do, to start programs like this, to get this thing done. Of course, in addition to two or three jobs, you don't really want to play sports at weekends, especially if you are working, it would be better if you made a little more money, but at any rate it would be good if you were talking about sports, you wouldn't have to talk about top sports, but that our children, brothers, fathers, grandparents can move around and live a healthy life, so that they don't die when, say, they reach retirement age, but a very long and peaceful old age is waiting for them, and also for us. So, there's money for these. Even here there will be raises, of course, differentiated. At the Parliamentary Office, it seems that there will be a 40 percent increase in salaries, and there will also be a wage increase of well over 10 percent in the State Audit Office. On the other hand, it seems that there is a reduction in the salaries of those working in prisons, no increase in the salaries of those working in curative-preventive workplaces, and no increase in the salary of paramedics, at least there is no evidence of this in the budget. Of course, you always say that salaries have been increasing for years. Even now, salaries will increase by 6-7-8-10 percent, say you, and these figures are true in the budget, and of course they can be shown, but let's talk about it a little bit more. What kind of salaries are going to grow here by 6-7-8, maybe 10 percent? The minimum wage, the minimum wage of 138 thousand forints is 10 thousand forints, and will it be 148 plus 155 thousand forints? In Budapest and the metropolitan areas, the rental prices are between 120 and 150 thousand forints. Of course, they'll grow, and then you can tell us how we're going on this road you started eight years ago, but this road is not going anywhere. Plus, since you're going to take away the cafeteria, this 8-10 percent you've predicted for this year will be lost, to put it mildly, or much less. The amount of cafeteria that is leased has a share of tax, not even a small amount, 40 percent, it would not be a raise, it would be a drop in wages for many people, which people will notice otherwise. Of course, it is possible to suggest, through our wage, our tax-relianced government propaganda machine, that there is a huge improvement here, but enough to go into an ABC or to go to the Balaton and try to buy a scone for the family, and when you have to pay 2000 forints of 150 or 200 thousand forints of salary, which people do not collect from a workplace, believe me that a family of four has a tight stomach. So, there's a rise in wages, so to speak, a rise in wages. And then let's look at the pensions. In Hungary there are 3 million pensioners and more. We understand that you think, and you will find in the budget, that these people should not retire now, or come back and start working, because it will be good for them. They've obviously worked 40 to 50 years, and now they're gonna have to get back to work, so I guess they're gonna be happy. [[16.50]] But let's see what the pensioners promise. They've got no promises, I guess. There we can read about a 2-3 percent increase in pension, which follows inflation. Think of it when someone has a pension of 100,000 forints, and then they will not receive a pension of 100,000 forints at the beginning of the month, but even 103,000 forints. Imagine, when one of these small pensioners dies, and then there is no longer 200,000 forints available, but only 100 thousand forints, from which you should somehow earn a living at prices that you know are not low. In addition, pensioners can still count on the Prime Minister's favor, and perhaps once or twice a year they can still receive 10,000 HUF Erzsébet vouchers or all kinds of vouchers. Obviously, this will solve their lives, and they will surely feel that they have worked for this country for fifty years, and now they can get 10,000 forints. In addition, of course, they will also receive a pension profit that was introduced by left-wing governments - if the economy is doing well. We hope that the economy will go very, very, very well, and that our retired parents and grandparents will be able to get as many pensions as possible. I don't know if you can see it, but we here, in the ranks of the opposition, see how they live. Not good. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you may say about this budget, whatever success propaganda you may say is made with an exchange rate of 311 forints, and now the euro is at 327 or 328 forints, who knows where it will stop and what damage it will cause the Hungarian people - so as much as you say that this is a growing and secure budget, unfortunately it is not. The 2019 budget is a budget of stagnation, resignation and uncertainty, a budget of bitter awakening, a farewell to growth and the European standard of living, the security of everyday life. In the ninth year of the Orbán government, Hungary was eliminated, millions will live worse, poverty will increase and tens of thousands more will emerge. We are moving away from European and even neighbouring countries' wages, from improving living standards. Europe is building a social market economy, the Orbán government is building a wealth of friends. In Europe, education is based on freedom, knowledge, education belongs to the privileged in the budget of Orbán, our universities have fallen back in the international ranking. Healthcare in Europe is no longer a chance of healing, and decent medical care in the budget in Orbán is no longer an option. In Europe, pensioners earn a decent living, and in the budget in Orbán they get poverty and scam. The Orbán government lied about flowering, but unfortunately, it seems that the austerity is coming in 2019. Unfortunately, I certainly do not propose this budget to vote. Thank you very much. [[Gyula Molnár applauds.]]
u2018-06-28-86	Thank you very much. Mr Attila Barcza, representative of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-87	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also talk about young people and government measures in the general debate on the budget. We are talking about a lot of important and serious issues in this House, and I think that young people are waiting for a significant part of the future's tasks. That is why the government has already spent significant amounts on youth policy in the past, and that is why we have been able to report on significant results in the past. I will start by saying that in 2016, large-scale youth research continued, which for the first time brought young people from abroad into this. It shows that two thirds of young people are planning their lives at home, wanting to have children, wanting to work, and most of them have jobs. At the same time, we also see that 31 percent of them have only a language exam and spend a lot of time on social media and the Internet. We also know from KSH data that youth unemployment in Hungary is only 9.6%, which is an outstanding result compared to the 16 percent EU average. Perhaps this is also due to what we know from Eurostat data that more people have been coming back to Hungary for the second year than the number of people going to work abroad. I think that the message of research has been understood, and that is why we have made it possible for every young person from 2018 to the age of 35 to pass a language exam free of charge. This language exam cost is a burden for many, and these few tens of thousands of forints can be easier, and they can also have a gesture value. This program has already started, and the budget is allocated 2.8 billion forints. In addition, we have also seen a significant financial burden on young people to obtain a driving licence and a licence. It's made up of multiple elements. The government decided to pay for the KRESZ course and the KRESZ exam fee, in the hope that this would also facilitate young people's access to the driver's license. For this purpose, HUF 1.7 billion was earmarked in the planned budget. I would like to emphasise and highlight the programmes aimed at digital protection for young people. This problem is identified, proposed and provided to young people in a modern way by the Digital Prosperity Programme, and the Digital Child Protection Strategy is preparing for the challenges with a number of training programmes and mentoring programmes. There are several programmes specifically targeting young starters. For example, the graduate, which can be used for two years, but young married people receive tax relief, in the context of the demographic package, there is a proportional reduction in the number of children in the amount of student loan repayment or the amount of mortgage credit. With the family home - making discount, we facilitated home creation for tens of thousands of young families. I consider this to be an outstanding opportunity, and I am very pleased that many young families in Sopron and in my constituency are taking advantage of this opportunity, and many settlements here can think of Kopháza, Harka, Fertőd, Fertőszentmiklós, Petőháza or even Hegykő, and more and more local youths are using this opportunity to buy an apartment or build a house. Speaking of student loans, there have also been significant changes here, taking into account today's needs. The student loan became interest-free and the monthly amount was increased to HUF 70,000. But we can say and know that tens of thousands of students are also affected by the fact that, in cooperation with student self-governments, we have achieved a 40% increase in the budget for social scholarships in higher education, and this will be a noticeable relief for students. It may seem natural now, but there is a need to mention the various mobility scholarships to which the government is spending more than HUF 17 billion. The National Talent Programme is also important, for which HUF 3.1 billion is available annually, and this means the involvement of 300-350 thousand young people per year in this programme. And I didn't even talk about EU funding programmes for young people at the time. Here we can think of the Youth Guarantee programme, which helps tens of thousands of underprivileged young people find work. Or enter the market. For a program that helps young entrepreneurs, or for a program at home, which supports the localisation of young people living in small establishments, and is already known for many people, the programme of young farmers, which facilitates the start-up of young farmers who want to take care of production on a lifelong basis. Finally, let me mention an important but even less well-known step: the creation of the Wacław Felczak Foundation, which has already been discussed in this House. The activities of the Foundation are aimed at bringing young generations of Polish and Hungarian nations closer together, making them mutually aware of each other's cultural values and supporting a joint educational and language learning programme. Polish-Hungarian friendship is not only a beautiful historical tradition, but also a foundation and a value on which to build and to which to build. I think that the list that we have listed is not complete, but we can see from this that we are on the right track. We have a number of tasks ahead of us, but we are definitely on the right track. I therefore strongly propose to this House that the planned budget be adopted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-28-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to start by saying that the budget is always a mirror; a mirror about how the government thinks, what are the current priorities, and also a mirror about what procedure and how it wants its own intentions to be accepted, for example, by Parliament and society. [[17.00]] If we look at the current budget, then the figures that are in it can be absolutely terrifying to us in terms of the future, because in previous years we have seen what will happen at the end of the year for similar numbers, and I had to put this in a very quotation mark. But it's very uncertain because, basically, at any time, the government can redeploy and redefine anything in its own jurisdiction. So, even if we accept this budget, you will push it through Parliament, you will be able to touch it at any moment, and in essence, the current figures may be considered to be relevant, but for God knows how long. With this step, Parliament's powers regarding the establishment of the budget have been completely emptied and, of course, we are discussing the 2019 budget again without even seeing the 2017 figures. I have to say that, in terms of both the defence and the internal affairs portfolio chapter, the 2019 budget will once again be a budget of stagnation. Let me begin by thanking both the Hungarian Defence Forces and the police forces for their work with such perseverance, decency and dedication, as this is without which these bodies and the Hungarian Defence Forces would not be able to function, since unfortunately, the government's decisions do not point in the direction of developing these organisations in merit and of improving the status of the stock in substance. So thank you so much for the stock. I would like to say a few words about what the Hungarian Defence Office has described over the past few years. From 2010 HUF 250 billion was withdrawn from the Hungarian Defence Office, which means that a total annual budget at that time was withdrawn in four years. The shortage of staff has increased to about 8000 in recent years, and a large part of the shortage of staff is in the executive staff, which is a huge problem. In addition, a number of skills loss can unfortunately be reported, which means that, for example, the combat helicopter capability has ceased in the previous parliamentary term due to the irresponsible nature of the government, since it was possible to know exactly when the operating hours of these machines would expire. Well, well, now the government's thinking after all, that it might be necessary to have this ability, and then they're trying to make these helicopters bigger, so they're gonna make it work. Unfortunately, it is forgotten that, after a loss of ability, it always costs a lot more to restore, restore, train the file, create maintenance conditions, maintain maintenance, improve the machines than if this ability had been maintained. Unfortunately, this ship has sailed, and they're trying to unravel, for example, this ability. What is complex about the draft budget for 2019? This budget can generate the 0.1 percent increase in GDP that you set out in the 2016 Government Decision. However, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that by 2024, with this schedule, the defence budget cannot reach 2% of GDP, and with the greatest goodwill they can produce up to 1.7 percent. So this is not going to be an appropriate rate of growth. Instead of real military upgrades, we see them getting civilian machines. We have managed to purchase civilian passenger transport machines instead of military transport machines, and we also have only 300 Suzuki fully equipped civil vehicles. I would also like to point out here that it is not about the need to replace old, outdated cars. Only when defence resources are scarce, when the depreciation of the assets of the Hungarian Defence Forces reaches 30 percent, so the depreciation rate is so incredibly fast, and when we talk about the fact that some military technology has served in the Hungarian Defence Office for up to 45-50 years, I am not sure that passenger cars are the primary. Compared to this, these civilian assets are also acquired by the government, which, I think, is also unacceptable by doing so in complete secrecy. You're acting like they're secretive and protective procurements from a national security point of view. I do not think, for example, that a civilian passenger transport machine could be a military acquisition in any way. This is again about hiding it from taxpayers, exactly how much these purchases cost. To date, they refused to tell us, for example, exactly how much the two Airbus machines were purchased by the Hungarian Defence Forces. Just a few days before the elections, Fidesz representatives of the Defence and Police Committee decided to discharge 650 billion forints of public procurement, and to date there is no answer to how many of these contracts have already been concluded and to what amount. As I see it, I'm not going to get an answer to that today, because there's no one here, unfortunately, from the defense wallet. But we will continue to maintain these questions. It seems that the salaries will be slightly increased, as the defence stipend is rising, and this must, of course, be recognised. However, we continue to insist that the civil servant's salary, which is HUF 38 650, should be increased to HUF 60,000, as well as the defence salary base, which is a little over HUF 43,000, should be increased to HUF 60,000. Besides, it's not just a matter of money. This is a very important part of it, we need to give them a financial estimate of their work, and we need competitive salaries, and there is still a lot of work to be done, but there is also a substantial need to improve working conditions. It can be seen that the voluntary reserve system is once again being used by the government for a great deal of resources, and otherwise they are equipped with new uniforms and tools. Yes, but in the meantime, there is a professional force, where professional staff and civil servants suffer from lack of proper equipment, adequate clothing, their situation is not improved, the checkbooks still have money, there is still no boots in the clothing shops, no practitioners or any other equipment, since they are not intended to replenish these stores. Compared to this, it looks like they're getting these new uniforms for the VPs. I think it's a huge waste. In substance, his abilities are not increased by the Hungarian Defence Forces. This is primarily where the development of professional forces is needed, and of course there is a need for a voluntary reserve system, but not for an expanded reserve system of 20,000 people, which does not otherwise have any substantial capacity, but for a voluntary reserve system of 5-6 thousand people, otherwise well-trained, equipped and motivated. Zrínyi 2026 is the term, word composition, label that appears in this budget, roughly as I looked at it, 4-5 times per page, because whenever an extra HUF is assigned to the budget of the defence portfolio, it is written that it is due to the Zrínyi 2026 program and to its implementation. Well, to be clear, this program doesn't exist. What we've done over the years, let me show you, by the way. I don't know if I'll be punished for it, because it's the government's own publication. A little colorful booklet like Zrínyi was put together as a 2026 program. [[He's showing it to me.]] However, I would like to point out that this is not what a military development plan looks like. There should be an army development plan detailing exactly what development resources each unit has, what timetable, what tools it will acquire, what the goal is, moving up from battalion level, how the timing of developments gradually looks. So it's not a small notebook, it's a military development plan. Unfortunately, beyond the fact that it contains communication lounges, there is no meaningful, elaborate plan. It's a label they can put on everything. And, of course, everything needs to be improved, yes, unfortunately, the Hungarian Defence Agency is in such a state, and in these past eight years there is a huge responsibility that, yes, everything needs to be improved today. Unfortunately, that doesn't solve the problem. In the last eight years, you have also managed to prevent Parliament from deciding on the development directions of the defence, since the decisions that had been provided for have been repealed. [[17.10]] Let's take another look at the priorities of the defence budget and what is important, it seems, for the defence leadership. Looks like they're based on military bureaucracy. I find it quite amazing that the Joint Chiefs will receive an extra HUF 28 billion in material expenses by 2019. There is no detail of exactly what this will do, while in the units that carry out the tasks, the same expendments will increase by just HUF 1.6 billion at the Joint Defence Command, so much more will be given to the troops to operate. So it shows that the money will not go to the soldiers here, not to improve the implementation of the tasks, to modernise the equipment, but to increase the water head, the Honvéd General Arm will receive infinite resources. I'm gonna wonder what they're gonna spend this money on, by the way. By the way, to be honest, I'm not surprised because the current Secretary of Defense is also from the Joint Chiefs, so he obviously prefers this, but I think they're a little out of line. So it would be better to increase operating expenses for the teams. What improvements are identified: the development of the anti-aircraft armoured capability, the continuation of the car procurement programme, I would like to draw attention here, this is a programme launched in 2003, and a further development of the rigid wing and helicopter capability. These are all previously launched programs. I very much hope that, for example, the development of helicopter capabilities will not in the future look like what we say Mi-17s have managed to do, where the helicopters have not been able to bring to life and create their self-defense capabilities, so basically they have managed to produce unusable transport helicopters under combat conditions, otherwise for quite a lot of money, so this is not how modernization should look. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] What should be done to finally be flexible, XXI. Should we have a military force capable of reflecting on the challenges of the century, prepared and capable of harnessing the excellent knowledge of our soldiers? We need to increase the budget by 0.2 percent, and we have put forward several proposals for a decision, so we can reach 2 percent by 2022. We need thought-out improvements based on the right concept. A new type of early retirement pension scheme must be developed and the number of defences must be replenished. Moreover, it is also part of the need to create legal certainty for the stock, not to modify the service laws every two months, not to transform the legislation into an increasingly deteriorating situation, so that, by the way, soldiers can now be obliged to work and over-service for 365 days of the year, but to provide them with substantial security and perspective, so that, if the stock can be replenished, these extraordinary overwork and over-services can be reduced. I have to say that the situation is no different with the Ministry of Interior, because there is also evidence that the course of life is not working, that the stock is very overloaded. For example, the police are serving ten million overtime a year, and otherwise, this is even worse than prison execution because it has the same overtime for about 8,000 people. It can also be seen that tens of billions were spent on prison construction, which eventually did not happen, a lot of people were trained, which also cost a lot of money, and now everything is completely empty, and nothing has come of it. There is a clear need to reduce fluctuations, a new civil servant pay table, an increase in salaries and an increase in efficiency. At the moment, law enforcement bodies are not able to properly carry out, for example, security control tasks. The problem is huge, I could tell you a long time ago how criminals were allowed into the country in settlement bonds, for example, and the authorities either didn't notice it or knowingly turned a blind eye. There will be a lot of work to be done, and this budget will not solve it. We will not be able to support the budget of 19 in this form, and we will, of course, submit proposals for amendments. Thank you.
u2018-06-28-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group.
u2018-06-28-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is so nice to listen to the various winning reports in the pre-written comments here, but there was one such educational block here now. Let me tell you something important, you have a few weeks to deal with that. There is an invention here in Hungary, which you have already introduced, called tao. I don't want to deal with any other anomalies in this area. If you have so many and useful ideas about the development of education, what would happen if you initiated the very simple thing in your own government that this tao money, which we say is here, is available, could be used not only in visual sports but not only in that framework, but also in general schools, for example, to ensure the necessary infrastructure conditions for compulsory physical education? So let's just say that the collection of these tao money is correct. Once again, I don't want to get into how concentrated it is, say, in a city or in a settlement it is in Hungary and how it is used. But let this be a political intention and will, if you are so supportive of this part of primary education, so that this money can be used in the field of basic education to develop sports fields, to renovate gymnasiums, where appropriate, in more efficient places, in settlements, for example, swimming pool development. So, in this block, as I see it, there have been a lot of such educational contributions, and I would like to help you to submit amendments to the following days. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-28-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. We will now continue with the comments announced in advance. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, in the budgetary debate, I would like to represent the interests of the sector in which Hungary can be seen as the pantry of Europe. More precisely, that is what we could consider because farmers said before 2010 that agriculture has two enemies: weather and balliberal governments. Socialist governments have caused so much damage to Hungarian farmers that, thanks to their activities, we have been lagging behind for decades compared to Western European farmers. At the time of accession to the European Union, with great opportunities left out, the socialist governments of the time were satisfied with the possibility of opening a pastry shop in Vienna and of continuing to eat poppy seed. For this reason, eight years ago, in 2010, the basic pillars of our civilian government were: job creation, tax reduction, strengthening the livelihood of families, strengthening the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people, taking over the energy sector in Hungary and Hungary. In parentheses, I note that if it had been up to SZDSZ or socialist governments, the Parliament might have been privatized into foreign property by now. Furthermore, the holding of Hungarian lands in the hands of Hungarian farmers, because we all know that if it had been up to the socialists, the dominant part of the Hungarian agricultural land would already be foreign owned. One of the main objectives was to boost the economy and increase internal consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at and compare the government's 2010 and 2018 pillars, we can conclude that the goals now set are in line with the goals of eight years ago. The construction is conscious, the measures are built on one another. The governance of the last eight years has successfully established the budgetary targets that we hope the Parliament will now accept. The current pillars of Hungary's Government: full employment, tax reduction, expansion of family support, support for families, Hungary, the protection of Hungarian people, a stable and constantly growing economy. [[17.20]] In recent years, given the strength of the economy, we have constantly reduced the VAT on basic foods. This reduced the VAT on fish, poultry meat, eggs, fresh milk and pig meat to 5 percent. We can now say within the sector that our production volume for fruit and vegetables is 2.5 million tonnes on a multiannual average. The market value of all products produced exceeds HUF 500 billion. The government has created a law prohibiting unfair market conduct as a binding element. Today, Hungarian producers cannot be paid for shelving money, and Hungarian producers must be paid within a maximum of 30 days. The strict and continuous monitoring of Nébih has increased the share of conscious Hungarian customers to a high level. This approach was the basis for the growth of internal consumption. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Next year's budget is a guarantee that the work that has been done fairly so far will not be wasted. The budget for next year is a guarantee that we will take further decisive steps to ensure that Hungary can truly become the pantry of Europe by making reasonable use of the country's territorial and climate conditions, with appropriate support for agriculture and the fruit and vegetable sector. I believe that, taking into account all our talents and opportunities, the agricultural portfolio has gone up to the wall in terms of subsidies. Government measures to increase the competitiveness of gardening will be in the following period: promotion of market organisation and sectoral self-regulation; market support; technical support; school fruit and vegetables programme and protection of origin; income replacement and investment aid; operation of a risk management system; development of favourable credit schemes; labour market measures; operation of R &amp; D institutional capacities. From the list, I would like to highlight the organisation of fruit and vegetables producers, the support of the farmers, to which the government spends HUF 4 billion and HUF 216 million from the 2019 budget, as well as the School Fruit Programme, which is still supported by HUF 2 billion and HUF 287 million. For the purposes of national agricultural compensation, the budget will amount to HUF 4.3 billion in addition to the planned farmers' payments. A total of HUF 8.6 billion will be available to farmers. The integration of producers is extremely important. I would like to point out that the integration of producers is supported in all areas by the new Chamber system. The National Chamber of Agriculture and the Government are doing everything they can to stabilise the situation of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow us to go back to earth. We have completed the Hungarian land programme for Hungarian farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember what was before 2010: in every settlement a process was launched, a programme of socialist-balliberal governments selling Hungarian land. Thousands of hectares of land were handed over to Austrian, Italian and foreign citizens. The Socialists supported the former Presidents and crushed small farms. Remember and remember, my dear fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, who is now the chief critic of the budget, in the field of agriculture, István Lajtos, former President of the Theatre of Socialists, what he said to the camera, into the eyes of the people: that he does not like politics to interfere with the economy. Then he added that family farmers should not benefit. The president of the village, then the green baron, and then the strange lord of the village rented 2500 hectares for a few thousand forints. After the rented land, he received a total of 370 million state aids, i.e. HUF 1 million a day. That was the socialist dirt dog, my dear fellow Members. However, all of this was not enough for him, he illegally leased land from Hortobágy National Park to local farmers because he had little public support for 1 million HUF a day without work. István Lajtos said to the camera, into the eyes of the people, that politics should not tell, that the government, the law of the land, how many animals should be kept under contract. At the time, they could also afford to be different on paper and to have a different number of real animals. We could see that he was protecting them, and that's why the socialists were attacking the land law. And let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, against the Hungarian farmers, the full opposition joined forces in favour of the socialists. The betterman took over the Presidential Pulpit, proving that they could do anything for money and power. At that time, LMP's agricultural politician, Róbert Sallai Benedek, covered the asphalt with manure. At the time, we considered this harsh, but today we are glad that it did not beat up the farmers who were regularly applying for it, regardless of religious sect and politics. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the lesson of the 8 April election is that people understood that the Hungarian government represented Hungarian farmers and Hungarian people in the last eight years against the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, Rural development funds helped farmers to catch up with more than a thousand billion forints in support of young farmers. In the interest of modern agricultural intensive technology, please allow me to take a fresh example from my narrower country, the Jasmine. Yesterday, 1.6 billion improvements were launched to renovate the main channel network of Jászság, which will also allow the production of flood areas and the possibility of irrigation in the event of drought. And I would like to add that this programme starts with a 50-year lag. Ladies and gentlemen, As for agriculture and other sectors, intensive technology and the possibility of irrigation are key in gardening. During the period ahead, the government aims to create conditions for efficient agricultural irrigation and to increase the proportion of irrigable areas. Today we water some 103,000 acres. Approximately 200,000 hectares is the area where we have water-licensed areas, and the demand for water from the Hungarian farming community is between 400 and 500 thousand hectares. To this end, a comprehensive plan for the development of domestic water management for irrigation purposes will soon be drawn up, so that we can achieve the objectives of irrigation set out above. Ladies and gentlemen, You've heard it several times in the last few days, and I'm sure you'll hear it, and I would like to confirm that the 2019 central budget is a budget for safe growth. I would like to confirm that, as for all Hungarians, there can be three factors that are no less important and more fortunate than security, growth, i.e. safe growth. In the spirit of these thoughts, I call on my fellow Members to adopt the budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-28-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Peter James, the Jobbik Group. I note that Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát would have followed, but since he is not here, you have made progress and you have the floor.
u2018-06-28-95	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I wish the time would finally come when we could talk about a budget that is finally the budget for wage increases. Well, this time hasn't come now. In fact, from the government's point of view, it has come now, after all, from your point of view, it is the wage increase budget, because in a very bold way, you are proposing to raise the wages of the honourable ministers to HUF 5 million, while also cutting off the cafetheria from the employees. On average, they would take 88,000 forints from a Hungarian worker on an annual basis. [[17 .30]] What do you mean? They raise their own salary to 5 million, and the employees lose 88,000 a year? It must be said that this budget is not a budget for wage increases for workers, but a budget for austerity and fidesz lies, because we can clearly see that while there is no money for wage increases, government propaganda, 50 percent more for spreading fidesz lies in 19 cases. So in 2019 we'll be getting more posters in our faces, we'll be able to read more posters that I don't know, Hungary is getting stronger, and that they'll stop who they'll figure out by then, but the problem is that people can't make a living from it. That doesn't make people's wallets any more money, they won't be able to pay the bill, the loans, the medicine, or even the food. Hungarian people do not need more posters, but more income. You're not raising wages. You're raising the number of posters. Dear fellow Members, The fact that Hungary is growing stronger does not need to be written in large letters, strong Hungary must be created, with a budget that simply leaves more money in people's pockets. We need a budget that does not hit workers with Europe's record taxes, but helps them with tax and contribution reductions. We need a budget that gives EU funds not to Lőrinc Mészáros, but to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. We need a budget that does not support the slave-holding multinationals, strategic partners, with billions of dollars, but helps the workers of the multinationals, for example, by allowing the government to renegotiate strategic contracts, expecting the multinationals to appreciate their employees at European level. That is what we would expect, and a budget that does not distinguish between workers in terms of which part of the country was born. Because that's exactly what the state is doing today. Today, the state severely and negatively discriminates against workers born to poorer parts of the country when public companies pay much less wages for the same work to a worker in Miskolc or Salgótarján than, say, a Győri or a Veszprémi. We cannot accept this kind of negative discrimination. We think there is equal pay for equal work. This is the minimum, and not the five million allowance to be voted on by the ministers. That we can catch up with the countries that are breaking down and the social sectors that are breaking down, and, yes, we need a transfer of government resources, even in relation to my constituency, my hometown, Miskolc. Dear House, I have tabled a number of amendments today to the budget in order for the government to provide additional resources to Miskolc and to the Miskolcs, who are repeatedly suffering from your policy, not just because they earn much less than the national average, as it is now almost all miskolcs. The reason why many people in my city suffer from your politics is because their housing is in jeopardy. Comrade Tallai last said that you solved the problem of foreign exchange credentials. They didn't fucking solve it! A lot of Miskolc families are still terrified that after they can't pay their loan, they'll be out on the street. You think that's okay? 'Cause I don't think so. The Hungarian government and the municipality of Miskolc also have a dog duty to protect the families that are about to be evicted, especially now that we are fighting homelessness at the basic level of law. Dear fellow Members, This is our chance to fulfill our duties. It is time to take action against homelessness and protect the homes of families who are about to be evicted. Miskolc has some experience in this, by the way. In our town, in recent years, part of the so-called numbered street Gypsy colony has been demolished by the city. In order for the residents of the area to be settled, the Fidesz majority voted in favour of an apartment frame of 60 properties so that the numbered street people could be placed at different points in the city. I am very sorry that the municipality of Miskolc didn't think about foreign exchange legitimists, or that I am acting in good faith when I say that there was obviously no money in the budget to help foreign exchange legitimists, and the city considered, and the Fidesz majority voted to help the numbered streeters. I, on the other hand, would like the municipality to be able to help the foreign exchange credentials in distress. Therefore, one of my amendments concerns the fact that the Hungarian Government should also allow Miskolc to create a housing framework of 60 real estates, a crisis framework to address the housing security of families with foreign currency credits in distress. There are a lot of municipal properties owned by the city that the municipality cannot use because there is simply no money to renovate the properties. For this renovation, I would like to take an extra resource from the central budget and, of course, this resource away from government communication, government propaganda, spreading fidesz lies. Basically, a little less poster needs to be posted next year, and then there will be money to save families with foreign currency loans in Miskolc. I ask you to support my amendment, if you think that the Hungarian people are more important than some silly posters with serial and brussery, so that we do not stop Brussels on posters this time, but stop evictions in reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to make a two-minute speech. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-97	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The only reason I took the liberty of doing two minutes after the solo in front of me is because Jobbik is always on the payroll. I would like to tell Congressman to see what the President of Novak has to say about your salary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Oh, no! Don't go down to that level.]] I understand you're talking about salaries, but let's see you're talking about your own salary. President Novák, your fellow Member, told me frankly that they are spending more than their salary, apart from begging people for money. [[A statement from Jobbik: Is he a credible man to you?]] to its representatives, the party leadership gives extra salaries to those who are loyal to the party president. That's what the President of Novak said. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Amazing! Amazing! Is Mr. Novak an authentic man to you?]] Dear fellow Member! Make a difference when you talk about salaries, that you're talking about your own salary again, or that of the population. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-98	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's a need for another two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. We are now continuing our work with regular speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the parliamentary representative of an area that is the furthest from Budapest, there are 88 small settlements in my constituency, and only four small towns out of 88. I am very pleased that the country has a government that prepares the basic concept of the "Modern villages" programme. Following a social dialogue by the end of 2018, this concept will be completed and we will start implementing the largest development programme in the countryside from 2019. This is particularly important for the conscious strategic development of villages and small towns. Our aim is to increase employment in Hungarian villages, improve transport and increase the quality of educational, health, cultural and leisure sports opportunities, make our Hungarian villages more lively and attractive, and improve their population retention power, increase the opportunities for young people and children. Of course, it is possible to say that this is. 19 and while listening to the opposition in relation to the 2019 budget, the previous right-wing speaker left the room very quickly, I would like to tell him that the programme "Modern Cities" has also started in Miskolc. In cities with county rights, the government has launched a development of 3500 billion, three quarters of 200 local projects are already in design and construction. Therefore, before you submit amendments, as that is the job of the opposition - I would like to draw the speaker's attention to the point of first finding out. We, who are here on this side, say a lot that the opposition has a very big deficiency in having no municipal record. You now have a municipal mayor, but believe me, we, who are sitting on this side of the horseshoe, either down here, among the State Secretarys, or up here, among the speakers, are more of us, we were local leaders, so we know and know precisely and authenticly what problems people have, what problems they have. [[17.40]] I really recall what Congressman Pócs said, as I now don't know where he called us the former Job-Handing politician criminal, because we were both mayors at the same time and we were MPs at the same time, and he announced the fight against political criminals with a great deal of it, and then it was really interesting to read the commentary by President Novak when he wrote about it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Is this the authentic man?]] The fact that party foundations pay extra resources to otherwise infinitely decent right-wing representatives. So first, you always look in the mirror and then start criticizing. The elections are over, Mr. James, although he is not there. On April 18, 2018, it ended, so I think it's useless for him to keep saying stupid things. He's a Miskolc resident, and I'm a man who lives in the easternmost part of the country, and I know exactly how people live hard. But believe me that in our region, and I believe that in Miskolc, the minimum wage increase and the guaranteed minimum wage have also been raised, which has also put a heavy burden on local authorities, and I am very pleased that the additional support to complement this in the municipal chapter is included in the 2019 budget bill. For us, the municipalities are very important, because there are 88 municipalities in my region, and I myself was a local government leader, so let me talk a little bit more about the municipal budget. We also recall the time when, as a municipal leader, we were helped by the consolidation of Fidesz, where the Hungarian villages and the Hungarian cities received state aid for previously rolled loans, and those small settlements who did not believe that they could ever settle these debts were able to start with a clean slate. It is also very important for the sake of transparency that the task-based support scheme was established in 2013 and that the principles of task-based support are reflected in the 2019 budget. As in previous years, general principles apply in the financing of municipalities. This is to support families in relation to a municipality, to further increase employment and to help parents get into work. And it is also very important to eat children, because we got cold and warm in the previous cycle, but believe me, either in a small village or in a small town, thanks to the help of Fidesz, there is no child who is starving now in school. So this was a very important form of support. It is also clear from this budget and from previous TOP calls that it is very important for us, precisely so that parents can get to work as soon as possible, so that the small children system is continuously developed. A cradle-building program has been launched, and it is likely that many settlements will benefit from the tendering opportunities. While earlier, if we recall, a nursery was only possible in a district center. Local governments are expected to manage HUF 2754 billion in 2019 without loan resources, with a central budget of HUF IX. In the Local Government Support Chapter, Chapter 1, it will grant and provide 737.3 billion forints of support. The other very important area is public education in the life of a settlement, a small village, a small town, and we are very pleased that, due to the funding of the task, the municipal leaders, the small town mayors operating the kindergarten feel that they can safely operate the institutions they still have, because many of us remember, during the socialist era, a municipal leader had to think about the way he was going to raise wages at kindergarten or school. The specific amount of the aid to compensate for the costs of the kindergarten operation has increased significantly from HUF 81 700 to HUF 97 400, of course this relates to the number of staff. A new funding element appears in the draft budget law, which contributes to the nationality bonus and related social contribution tax for teachers who are entitled to the nationality bonus. Let us also talk about the social sector, as I have said that I am a Member of Parliament in one of the most disadvantaged regions. It is very important what amount of support the government will provide for the social responsibilities of local authorities. In 2019 the draft budget law will provide HUF 34.79 billion for social expenditure in low-income settlements that cannot be financed elsewhere. The most important change is that, taking into account the expenditure actually spent by the municipality on aid tasks, the aid becomes limited. The aid will primarily cover the payment of municipal aid, but will also help to provide basic social child welfare services and provide the self-employment required for public employment. Supplementary subsidies are also very important for municipalities. There is usually a demand for support at the Ministry of the Interior at the disposal of the municipalities. This represents HUF 5 billion in the 2019 budget bill proposal. They can make three types of constructions out of the tender money submitted to the Ministry of Interior by the municipalities. They can translate it into the development of compulsory municipal institutions, the development of supply sports, infrastructure, and internal road renovation. A lot of people in my constituency are using this support. And, of course, let us not forget the extraordinary support of the municipalities, because, quite often, due to a situation of force majeure, in the case of damage caused by a sudden hailstorm in municipal properties, for example, there was one in my constituency - so there is also a need for force majeure announced by a municipality. I'm glad we can find cover in this budget. It is very important that I also talk about economic development programmes as a Member of Parliament in the border region and as a little expert in external affairs. At the time, this programme was launched for the first time in Vojvodina and then in Transylvania, after Mura, Croatia and the Highlands, it is likely that Transylvania will receive this economic development support. As a frontier representative, I know exactly what this means, because it is important for us to know what source of support the Hungarian people living next door, on the other side of the border, are getting, as it strengthens Hungarian communities there. But here we could talk about public employment, because in my area we are still taking part in public employment with a significant number of people, broken down into settlements. I am pleased that we are planning HUF 180 billion in the 2019 budget for public works programmes. Finally, allow me to say that I have just come from the Council of Europe's sitting in Strasbourg, and that is why we, who represent the interests of the Hungarian people, our Hungarian voters, do not need to be Bagatellized, Member. [[17.50]] So you can talk about frivolous posters here, but if you had colleagues there - you would see exactly what the European Union wants against Hungary. And while we are talking about a budget, let us also talk about the fact that you are planning certain withdrawals on the proposal of Brussels and, of course, of George Soros. [[Tibor Bana: Corruption! The government is corrupt!]] But if you don't believe me, my fellow Members don't believe me, then I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are younger today with the help of technology, you can also look at parliamentary meetings later in the Council of Europe. I would like to draw your attention to the two English gentlemen sitting there: one is a baron, the other is a lord, one is a socialist, by the way, and the other is a member of the conservative faction, who has told you exactly what you need to know about George Soros. The English know exactly how he made the pound back in the day. So you can call this government propaganda, you can call this a waste of money here, believe me that people living in an area like my area are an individual elected representative of an area that, unfortunately, you have only one success in this constituency thanks to God - we know exactly what people want from us. People want us to protect them here in Hungary, and do not give in to the aspirations that soften them up, loosen them up. And while we are talking about a budget, people are simply translating this: they want us to stop Soros's ambition in Hungary, because they clearly see that either the applications from the TOP development sources or family support may not be ready for so much money or even for some people to say that there may be no possibility. So I suggest, Mr. James, that his first style, his first speech, has succeeded in discrediting you - that it may be a little deeper not only in the reality you think it is, but instead attempt to walk the country. And if you were going around the country, you would find out that, for example, the day before yesterday, the mayor of Tuzsér announced that he had had had had enough, that the county assembly had quit its rightful faction today, because he said that the party that spoke and did something else was frivolous. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Like Fidesz!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Tibor Bana: Thank you, that was brilliant!]]
u2018-06-28-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone would like to take advantage of the two-minute speech right now. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group.
u2018-06-28-101	Thank you very much. I didn't want to tell you, but I was shocked by your vehemence. I'm not gonna protect the Jobbik. Don't be scared. I'm not gonna protect the Jobbik. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes, you can!]] I'm sure they'll do it themselves. I'm sorry to tell you this, but the perception you've expressed about the local governments, I don't think it's about the establishment of the municipal system at all. What you have said here is that every word you use is a shiny version of the council system, which is about thanking and grateful to the wise government, that our money, which you are collecting, is being redistributed in a way that seems to be acceptable at some point. He wasn't here when I said my big comment, the longer one, and that's exactly what I was talking about, that you're taking away the very essence of this locality, so that the local people can decide what they think about kindergarten, nursery, school, and where they need help, there are systems, structures that they're doing this help through. So once again, it's a very wrong way of thinking and understanding, and I would like to say to you that it's obvious that you can believe in what you're saying with such momentum, and with great respect, what you said, and, of course, the right of your heart, make sure that you don't feel ashamed in a few years' time, if the world goes any other way. Thank you.
u2018-06-28-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Peter James applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, At that time, we received the answer from Congressman Tilki about what was more important to the Orbán government: the silly posters, the serial posters are more important than protecting the homes of Hungarian people. I'd just like to ask you, if you're so well informed, did George Soros tell you that the country must be looted? Did György Soros tell you to put Hungarian people on the street? I don't know what George Soros said about immigration; you let thousands of migrants in. Orbán said that anyone who comes from the south and knocks nicely can come. Those who pay nicely and come from the east, may come to Rogán's circle. Did George Soros say that, or are they doing it on their own? Could EU funds be withdrawn from Hungary? Well, you shouldn't steal so much. In 18 seconds, Lőrinc Mészáros earns a month's wages to a nurse in Borsodi. You think that's normal? Is that normal? Because I don't think he's normal. So we need to look inside ourselves for a while. And of course, Viktor Orbán is already seeing a global economic crisis. Not necessarily a global crisis will come, but the Hungarian crisis will, and you will lead this country into this Hungarian crisis with immense corruption. This will cause the crisis, which will result in Brussels saying, sooner or later, thank you very much, if, among other things, the Hungarian taxpayers' money is stolen, we will not give it to you. Now, this will be the real crisis in a country that does not generate resources, but uses resources. That's what you do. It's gonna be a big problem if these resources fade away thanks to your corruption policy. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Interestingly, now that we are talking about the budget in principle, perhaps the real debate partner would never have thought that I would have said this to the Socialist Member, who, of course, was a former mayor, so he is familiar with Annex XI. in the district, that is, a large district in Budapest, and believe me there is a difference, so it's another budget for a Nemeszborzova of 126 people and XI. district budget. If you're just thinking about the utility service, you still agree with what I'm saying. So believe me that it was unfair to the rural eye, to the rural eye, that, by the way, the great municipalities could do it, that they could put as much money on top of school education as they had at their disposal. Solidarity is reflected in this budget. Mayors of small settlements say that, finally, we feel that we are happy, Budapest is the capital, we like to come to Budapest, but we live in the countryside - it is a good feeling that the institutional system of solidarity appears in the Hungarian budget. I say to the better Member that I understand that you must tell you these things, but if you are so credible, why couldn't you tell the poor voters of Miskolc before 8 April, as you said, because a fidesz opponent, who is a lady, won the election. So believe me, you can bang phrases about the ground and all that crap, but what matters to people is that someone is authentic or not authentic. And saying demagogic horse-zunges doesn't mean that voters take you seriously. In my area, the difference between the betterman and me, although the betterman did his best, it is his job to reduce the number of 16 200 votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. James Peter: We have 127.]]
u2018-06-28-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to live with another two-minute comment. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to, because he can't, because the factions here have exhausted the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. Since there is no demand for comments from the other groups, since MEP Tamás Harangozó and Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi have not returned, they cannot realise their earlier opposition, so we now have four better Members to speak, but I would like to announce here that after one speech, there will always be a two-minute speech, since this is a round of speeches. Congressman Ander Balázs, please.
u2018-06-28-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, from the pro-government benches, the role of master Pangloss from Voltaire's Candide was played, so you think this is the best possible worlds. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] [[18.00]] Isn't that right? Well, my dear fellow Member, we see it that way, and we see it in the light of the figures and the facts, and they tell us that this is not the case. If there are good initiatives, then I have to say and here we will look at a few things in particular - that they are actually just a sort of beauty patch on the huge set of problems that we, together, should be able to solve here. What I would like to talk about most of all is education and the Gypsy integration with this thousand threads, and I am already terrified of the fact that the pro-government crap press will not bring it down with the better Member again being a gypsy in Parliament. Fellow Members! This is not the case, but we need to see that this is the 21st. One of the most important national issues of the century. We must deal with this issue responsibly. Once again, it is a very sensitive subject, but we still have to be honest about these issues, because the issue of Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence is a matter of national strategy, which, if we do not solve many problems - then the whole country will fall into a gap, because demographic and social trends are very, very clear in many cases. We say that ascension has three pillars. These are the three pillars: obviously the first is socialisation processes, the second is education, and the third is work. It is only through these three things that you can rise up to a social and social extent. There's obviously some Real World stars, but I don't think it's a cure for a whole group of people or a country. Well, if you don't have the parenting funds you need to have a child, a young person, to be successful in school, and get good results there, and then go to school and do a job that makes you a useful member of society, then the hell with it. That is why we are treating the items of the budget related to education and education as a kind of complex system, and we are trying to shed light on where new resources should be involved to deal with these problems, problems and problems. First of all, in order to see if this budget is good, we have to diagnose reality, the reality that I think if we open our eyes, then we all see, and not here about your propaganda posters, and I don't know where it comes from, hypothetical, and indeed something that paints such Panglossian worlds, in which you unfortunately live many times. These things must be discussed tabooly, otherwise, as I have tried to do in my speech before the agenda on Tuesday. I am very sorry that you are not here, Mr Retvári State Secretary, because you've made a great deal of drama, and I'm sorry to say so, but you've made a great deal of drama about what you said there. It was such a big drama that it would have been a compliment to the liberals. We already knew that KDNP was a kind of department of Fidesz, but that KDNP, in this form, let's say, a kind of SZDSZ platform, was very, very shocking to me on Tuesday. It was a false uproar and a show for a Pharisee school that we saw there from the Secretary of State, and his boss, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, said that the politically correct way of speaking is the most obvious instrument of spiritual repression. At the time, it would have been nice to hear at least the words of the Secretary of State from his own boss, and according to this, not to make such a big deal out of what was said there. I almost had the feeling that he was crying out a kind of liberal bastard like what the extreme liberals had done to the Gyenei Marta, who, several years ago, had been writing on the basis of empirical experience and who had been disinherited by liberal intellectuals. But the same was played with Dr. Póczik New Year's Eve, who also talked about integration problems. Then György Németh played it with a sociologist and economist, and in many cases played it with István Forgács, the Roma expert from whom I quoted the sanity, on which they were so upset that, at a young age, without school, giving much into poverty was not a cultural right and virtue, said a Roma expert of Gypsy origin, who, I believe, often gives you advice. So I'm asking you very nicely, if we're talking about this kind of thing, then please don't make this false uproar any more. And then, say, Attila Lakatos, the gypsy butter from Borsodi, who can say really tough things, I didn't even quote, but I could. Let's just say that the idea of having a conscious child is not a fascist blight, we should talk about it at a social level, calmly, and we will, even if you don't like it. It is important to talk about these things, because it is important to see that there is a huge power of inertia among the gypsies, we can observe centuries of historical disadvantages, we can talk about them, which make it difficult to deal with this issue. So we need the help of the state and the majority society to solve this. In parentheses I would like to note, let us say, the successful integration of Singaporen Malays, on which we would like to think here in Hungary as well. And then we find it very, very harmful that, in connection with Roma integration, you, joining the liberals, will turn this into a sort of ideological battlefield and not reflect on reality. This would be necessary, by the way, to know and react to reality. So, when I outlined the harsh reality on Tuesday, let us not be upset, but rather think about how to solve problems and understand that in a society with a Latin American social structure such as the Hungarian society has actually become, iron laws predestinate that in a situation where there are such demographic trends and where we can also observe certain withdrawn sociocultural peculiarities, the only solution is to catch up with school and education. It's the only real solution. So when we talk about how incredibly bad it is, let's say, in some cases, the so-called family background index, and how that ruins school results, and that these school results also show us, through international surveys, that they are getting worse, that they should not blame me, but face reality. I don't know, I'm waiting for them to figure out that the PISA test is something from Soros, I don't know what it is. No! It shows you the truth. That 10 percent of primary schools in 2008 were where the majority of disadvantaged students were, this has now grown to 15 percent over the last two cycles, and then again not to blame me, but to look up, say, Z. Attila Papp's studies, who sheds light on the processes that this entails in terms of education. Please respond to the fact that only 6 percent of 15-19-year-olds in 2010 did not work, were not in school and were not looking for work, and by now this proportion has doubled. When I'm talking about these things, don't tell me that the betterman was a gypsy, but that these problems should be solved. Thank you so much in advance. Well, social mobility in Hungary is clogged. The school, we must say, does not compensate for those disadvantages, as in a more normal society it would otherwise have to do, but actually preserves them even more. What we see in many cases is that the proportion of early school leavers is increasing within Hungary, these young people are untrained in the labour market, and territorial differences are also increasing enormously. And when I say that whole regions are ghettosing, they should not be terrified of this by creating an uproar, but, let's say, look at the surveys and investigations of János Vénes, head of the research group at the University of Debrecen, which say exactly that social, ethnic, cultural marginalization is often associated with geographical and territorial disruption. And it is no coincidence that the World Economic Forum indicated that Hungary took 29th place in the competitiveness rankings at the beginning of the 2000s, and by now we have actually moved to 60th place. [[18.10]] The only way to get ahead with this is if we could somehow get involved in the hierarchical pyramid of the world economy by applying more and more added value products to the market. This requires well-trained young people, a well-trained society. Well, how much do you spend on solving these problems and problems? We can see that you will receive 15 billion HUF more in the education sector. It's about a 2% increase in inflation, which, as it is, will take you away. And to be a little demagogic now: your great friend Mr. Mészáros and his family portfolio increased by HUF 180 billion last year. Divide by 12, that means that it was 15 billion forints a month that made them richer. You will now give this 15 billion, this monthly increase, to the Hungarian education industry, for a whole year! Then what are we talking about here when my fellow Member Vinnai says that the government is paying attention to education? That much? Well, let's not joke. Who do you think you are, fellow Members, so blind, so foolish? ! It's nothing! If you really believe these problems are real problems, and you don't want to gypsy here for your own good, and I don't know what you're thinking, but just because we're worried about this country, you have to realize that this extra resource you're looking for for education is infinitely little. And if we look at the amendments that we have made to this budget, we need to see them now. - that the evil Jobbik, the racist and racist hater, and I don't know why Jobbik has called out is paying attention to the children's homes, because we believe and believe that early development is the most important thing in this regard. We'd double our resources. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in Hungary, the proportion of child poverty in the pan-European comparison is huge and one third. And if we look at the age group that was invented to put it this way, the programme of the 'Secure Start', then we are talking about the age group from newborns to the age of five, where there are at least 450 thousand children, and if we believe that child poverty is a third in Hungary, then we are talking about 150,000 children who should be paid much more attention to regardless of their origin. So if we were to say that this 2 billion forint resource should be doubled, then I think we're right. And the money invested here will be repaid with interest in the future. Then we need to talk about the question of boarding schools. In this connection, we have tabled an amendment. Yeah, a lot of people get convulsions when they hear it's a boarding school. There's one in Switzerland. Or Bishop Cotton School in India, it's a very expensive private school, by the way. So that's one way to imagine it. But let's say that the school network of Csaba Böjte, the Szent Ferenc Foundation of Déva also creates a kind of boarding school model. But Gandhi High School in Pécs is also a kind of boarding school. And sometimes it's a lot worse when you have to bring antisocial children or rescue them from their families, so to speak. For example, the special Zita children's home in Kaposvár, only those working there say that young people will be there very late, at an age when there is nothing to do with them. So the Jobbik would devote more resources to these issues, such as these. I would very much ask that if you do not express the terrible things that Jobbik is talking about, but accept the Hungarian reality, then you will also accept these amendments. And, yes, we'd like to raise the amount of high school students' scholarships. It is important to appreciate the efforts of teachers who are willing to learn despite a cumulative disadvantage, to make an effort to be useful members of this society. We say that such scholarships, if there is real achievement behind them, serve a good purpose, a good cause. Let me give you an example of a practical life. There they are, we talked about it on the pro-government side, the Travel Scholarships. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the government, someone should be brave now, shout out how much money a teacher receives every month after such a mentored student has to put at least 12 to 14 hours of work into that mentoring process every month! Shout out the amount of this! Seven thousand forints, so it's about 600 forints an hour. The most miserable day's wages you've ever spent on this kind of thing, that's how much you value educators. It is also very important to further develop adult education, as I am bringing a European comparison here too. In Scandinavia, 30 percent of adults constantly train themselves. The European average is around 10 percent, this is 3 percent in Hungary, my fellow Members! Very, very little. A few more things you should be very careful about. One of them is school social work. Yeah, we know it's gonna be a tender, but we don't know the frame numbers. There are reports that 1,500 students will be assigned to one of these experts. Do you realize what a terrible number this is? We say that this program should start with HUF 8 billion from September in Hungary. My fellow Members, we are talking about a few kilometers of money, some overpriced kilometers of motorway money or just a few kilometers of railway money, which your fellows are stealing in overpriced form. We respectfully ask that you pay attention to these issues and then try to rape yourself and accept these amendments. But there is also the case of the Erzsébet camps, for which HUF 4 billion is intended for operation, HUF 4 billion 400 million. Once again, the share of child poverty is one third in Hungary. Why can't this amount be doubled? Why is it that the Erzsébet Programme Leader, Foundation Manager, who got into a scandal last year, rented a house for 110,000 forints near the Zánka camp, and from there he came to work for 1 million 850 thousand net for Zánka, and that's where the Secretary of State of Rétvári is now showing up? Shame, shame! Keep an eye on these guys. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-108	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Would anyone like to live with that? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Mr Stummer, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-28-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The essence of Viktor Orbán's political tactics is that the government never has to govern. The emphasis is not on making good decisions, or trying to defend with arguments the changes that are embodied in decisions, but on the need to constantly attack the opposition. You have to build an enemy image, you have to make a threat, you have to draw the hoofed devil on the horizon, and then you have to accuse this enemy image of the most insane accusations. There is a debate among historians as to whether Hitler learned this political tactic from Stalin or vice versa, whether Stalin learned it from Hitler. The question, however, is not the subject of this speech. But what you do know is that he's making you see better. Their own camp must not be politicalised with communication governance, but with real governance for the benefit of Hungary as a whole. But you've been doing the same thing for years. The root of this problem is likely to be found in their perception of democracy. Because an election is not about which political force governs Hungary. It's just a consequence. An election is always about the direction in which the country should go, according to the voters. People do not choose parties, although some party brainwashers think so, but choose a future together, and decide the direction of that. They'll give you authority to the government that they think you're going to go in that direction. [[18.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, people decide on their personal future, everyone decides on it, but the current government must hear not only the voices of those who voted for their political community, but also those who were of a different opinion. If the current government ignores them, it offends and humiliates these people, in fact confesses to viewing people as a simple instrument of power. In fact, this concept means that after having the majority, the parties of government think they can do whatever they want. End of quote. Dear Fidesz, you are now my fellow Member. Thank you for honouring the Hungarian Parliament with your presence, I am sorry that the other two-thirds of your fellow Members did not do so, and tell us all about the mental state that you were in. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you have some time, you and your other fellow Members, who are currently not in place, in the course of performing their urgent public tasks, please look into when and where these sentences have been spoken. By the way, I'll give you a little help: a few meters from here, on that pulpit, a little over a decade ago, in a budget debate. Find this speech, see who said these sentences, and then examine yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, You cannot exclude opinions other than yours, other visions, the will of Hungarian people from this budget proposal. I believe that you have no right to do so. But I am afraid that they will, and on the whole, this one argument would be enough for a man of our own values to reject this budget. But let us look at this from another point of view: does this budget answer the most important problems of the Hungarian people and Hungary? Is it possible to read from it common national targets that this budget is intended to achieve? Can we read the big common goals for which the proposal before us wants to be a suitable instrument? When we read the budget, we see the same disease as in the non-existent government programme. This is not surprising, as the budget is nothing more than a reflection of the government programme for the following year. But you can't read something like that from this budget, except that it's Fidesz! And that we're going to continue. You always hide behind your own sponsors' skirts, seek refuge with them when they justify their decisions. Since 8 April, 2.5 million people have told the opposition to remain silent while forgetting that at least so many have supported the opposition side. And if you don't mind my saying that you are sitting in this room with a two-thirds majority in the coming years, it is only the result and result of a series of electoral systems and electoral frauds that you have distorted. Two thirds of you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Facts!]] But let's leave it alone. You know that much more than I do in the immediate environment of Gábor Kubatov. But regardless of all this, it would be your duty and your government, who has said that you are responsible, to embody the political will of all Hungarian people. You are bound by the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which is what you swore a few weeks ago. My timeframe does not allow me to put every intention expressed on 8 April on the House's table now. These frameworks are not suitable for giving room to all non-citizen wills that do not match yours. That cannot be my goal, but it is, if only with snapshots, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is another Hungary, not just yours. And in this other Hungary, they take every means to eliminate the imminent demographic disaster, not freeze the family allowance, but increase it. This is not a conceptual question in our interpretation as to whether our family support model includes a specific form of support, but a matter of principle, not only that all instruments are allowed, but also necessary in this case. In this other Hungary, people who take care of their injured family members at home by pawning their own lives do not receive HUF 52 800 per month for a care fee. In this other country, which is apparently outside your sphere of interest, thousands of mothers wake up every blessed night every three hours to turn their helpless child in his own bed, diapers his teens and twenty-somethings, feeding him through a probe. And while you undertake this sacrifice, you estimate this service with 52 800 Hungarian forints. In this other Hungary, there is no high concern about the unsolvability of child psychiatric care. Please note, my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, that while many of the younger age groups and unfortunately more and more of them are struggling with mental problems, only Szeged, Debrecen and Budapest have a separate children's psychiatric department, and in the country there are only a few ten professionals working with this problem. This other Hungary is a community with people with disabilities and helps them achieve equal opportunities. He will do everything in his power to support organisations that make life easier for our disabled fellow citizens. In our Hungary, they are also considered human. In this other Hungary, they do not support the Prime Minister's Office's billion-dollar public procurements, but support home care, and increase budget support for this purpose. In this other Hungary, no family has to think about replacing or eating the medicine. It should not be spent on government communication, but on example and, among other things, on public health care. This other Hungary handles the drug problem in its right place and provides a sufficient amount of resources for prevention. Notice that in Hungary there are tens of thousands in the captivity of the herbal and other drugs, and this process must be stopped. But that other Hungary does not forget the tens of thousands of Hungarian diabetics. This country does not reduce budget support for them, but increases it. Please note that your government is also responsible for this other Hungary. You cannot sweep proposals from the hips from purely wretched political, party political considerations that come from here, the other Hungary. This is not worthy of you or your public office. Change your practice, ladies and gentlemen, and finally be consistent. What is in the best interest of the country, anyone should present it, support it, which is contrary to it, it must be rejected by whoever brings it to this House. Be consistent, but first of all, what I ask of you, be just and humane. This way, please. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone wants to make a two-minute speech. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Fidesz, When we start planning budgets, it is good to clarify some basic concepts for ourselves, for example, what we call municipality, what is it for us that covers the concept of municipality, because only by such clarity can we then make a budget that is sufficiently fair, as has been said earlier - it covers everything, and it really helps everyone according to the country's capabilities and opportunities. I think that the concept of self-government is primarily, and most importantly, management freedom and freedom of self-determination. Obviously, this should be complemented by the ability to maintain self-preservation and self-defense. [[18.30]] But I would like to tell you, first of all, about this freedom of farming and freedom of self-determination, first of all, about the ability and freedom of self-determination. This basically covers operating aid and development aid if we look at this issue from the budgetary point of view, in the sense of how the municipalities can perform their mandatory tasks in the task financing system that the government now provides for them. It must be pointed out that this is a mandatory task, so I do not think that we are talking about very large luxury expenditures and unnecessary, wasteful investments and operations when we mention fundamental issues. First of all, since the budget is basically about people for us, let me tell you right away about personnel costs. Support for the operation of municipal offices has been at the same level for years. This means that it is HUF 4,580,000 per year, but with the expenditure in rem, and this is broken down into per capita. We know that this means little to ensure the real operation of municipal offices, and, of course, I would add that the number of recognised civil servants has also remained unchanged for years. We know that this limitation of the number of staff and the corresponding wage support, through the operating grant, is far from sufficient compared to how much work each person has to do in the case of small settlements, and how much responsibility he really has to carry out, even though I know that the limit for the establishment of the mayor's offices is 2000 people at the moment, but God knows how high you will want to raise this, but even if there are many municipalities that need to be dealt with, the more difficult and more responsible work is. So we would also like to propose an increase in the number of recognised civil servants, despite the fact that the civil servant's salary itself should now be used. In frozen form since 2008, since the IMF pact was concluded by you and by your predecessor on the major coalition, the MSZP, but you have maintained this certain IMF pact since, in principle, the IMF has been driven out of the country long ago and we have repaid all our debts, not only to them but also to the European Union. However, this does not change, and this is what we are proposing now, it may be surprising that if I say that the 38 650 will be raised to 60,000 forints. I do not think that this is an outspoken and impossible request, which you would otherwise not be able to fulfill, because if you look at the civil servant's pay sign, according to which multiplying numbers and the salary base will result in how much a civil servant makes after his years of work or his position, then we should see that the guaranteed minimum wage is now in many cases higher than the salary for a certain amount of 38 650. I find the solution that you are proposing amazing, so that there should be such a balancing wage arrangement fund with HUF 11 billion, which would help poorer municipalities at the expense of larger settlements, by raising a solidarity contribution. So, in Hungarian, more is drawn from the so-called richer settlements, and this fund will be filled by smaller settlements, obviously, to apply for this resource on the basis of party sympathy, so that they can raise civil servants' wages locally. First of all, I think that the solidarity contribution itself is a concept, let us safely say that it is against the law. It follows from the Fundamental Law and from the Mötv. that although the budget of the municipalities and the central budget are linked, only on the basis of the grants from the central budget, not by withdrawing significant funds from the municipalities, as already announced this year, is HUF 43 billion, and this is how you think you will upload this EUR 11 billion settlement fund. No! Give us decent wage support through the general operation of the mayor's offices, raise the civil servant's salary fund, and then we will all have a normal, decent wage in a normative way, based on uniform and non-party sympathy. This, of course, is also linked to the civil servant pay table, which I am now not only debating, but I think that everyone in this House who is reasonable must question why this is still a separate annex to the budget when we know that it does not make sense anymore. According to last year's and this year's guaranteed minimum wage, two thirds of the gross wages that can be calculated on the basis of the multipliers there are less than the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. practically the whole table is blurred together, no matter how many years you worked or what your education is, it is certain that you will receive the same amount of money because of this pay table or the adjustment to the guaranteed minimum wage. Make sense of the civil servant pay sign. Let's say that the first column is tied to the minimum wage, then from B to E is linked to the guaranteed minimum wage as a basis, and from then on in the classes above F there should be a minimum salary of a degree, which in optimal cases, yes, could be the annual average gross monthly earnings of the national economy. I know this may seem like a lot to you at once or suddenly, but I think it would be fair for people who offer their lives to serve the public. To return to the issues that are also part of the freedom of self-determination, but I would no longer be talking about expenditure of a personal nature, let us see, for example, the question of public transport. Now you will spend 12 billion forints to support the BKV in Budapest as a whole. For the whole country, the mandatory loss compensation that local governments have to make up for the large regional community transport companies will help a total of HUF 2 billion. This is ridiculously low to maintain the country's circulation through public transport. We recommend a significant increase in these two items, because then it makes sense to indicate this in the budget law. I would also like to mention a very important one among the same mandatory tasks, and this is the renovation and maintenance of inland roads, sidewalks. I know that I must also tell the truth to other fellow Members, including, where appropriate, my fellow Members of the Government, and he himself would tell me the truth about what is currently on this line in the Finance Act. We are a Member State of the European Union, let's see, we have been talking about the 2019 Budget Act for 15 years now, and rural citizens can travel on dusty, muddy roads in very large parts of Hungary. The settlements have no chance of tearing them down, but they do not even have the chance to repair the existing asphaltic concrete roads, to maintain them, as in the case of the sidewalks. Is this state at European level? Shouldn't the central budget contribute much more to this, so that once again party sympathy shouldn't prevail in relation to these proposals, because this money doesn't come on a normative basis for the municipalities, because it also needs to be applied for, and then we have to cry out in order to give a settlement all of them. So in this respect, too, I think that there is a need for a significant increase. Another very important issue, and I would like to mention two immediately, both of which are one social issue. One is the question of social firewood. We know that more and more people in Hungary today need to fire wood, but we also know that what local governments are helping to provide social firewood in this regard is so little that the first month of winter can cover up to two months of it, and then people freeze because the municipalities do not have their own income and resources to make up for it in some way. [[18.40]] So we suggest to the Honourable Ministry of the Interior that you think that if we only raise this budget twice or three times, what a great extra help we could already give, and we are talking about only one or two billion forints. The second is that, after the amendment of the Fundamental Law, we know that what has been described as an opportunity has now become a categorical imperialist, so that it is not possible to be homeless in public areas. Then let's put them somewhere. This is largely the responsibility of the municipalities, and, to a lesser extent, civil society organisations are taking over this public task. But if we don't give it an extra source, and if you don't believe it or not, it's just the same norm that was put into the budget law again, like last year and the year before, and so on, we could go back in a long line of years - there won't be a chance for the municipalities to perform their mandatory task fairly. In both daytime and temporary placements, it is therefore necessary to help not only municipalities, but also civil society organisations with a public service mission, by significantly raising these task funding grants so that they can perform this task, which is already laid down in the Fundamental Law, fairly and in a dignified manner. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Does anyone wish to make a two-minute speech? [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-28-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Secretary of State, Dearly beloved two pro-government MEPs, Attila Gelencsér and Lords of David HEY! I am truly very sorry that the budget debate, even if it is long, is honoured by so few pro-government Members. I have this regret because, over the past few hours, we have been criticised by pro-government representatives for the fact that we ourselves are criticising countless items of the budget. In fact, it has even been said that we, as the opposition, may first have to get inside ourselves and then criticize it. But criticism is not his right, but his duty. And I would ask that you do not consider it unfair when representatives of an opposition force, the strongest opposition party, speak out for those social groups who would need most in any country if their own ability to assert their own interests is not sufficient, not strong enough, then with the state's social, educational and health system. If we look at this budget and try to put it in one sentence what we see in it or what our impressions of this budget are, then I must conclude that it has two serious parts. One is to support the further detachment of the detachment layers, and the other is to further favour the already richly stuffed communities. It includes conserving poverty, and it includes unbridled spending. If I have to make this country's budget for 2019 even simpler, I simply say that this is a gamble. Today, in this House and yesterday, a number of excellent people, excellent representatives, with very thorough professional work and analysis, have presented the qualities of this budget that I would not like to repeat, but we can certainly conclude that this government of this country will not be able to meet this budget professionally and that it will not be able to defend its ideas from a social, economic, monetary and fiscal point of view. I am most sorry to say this, but if we draw conclusions from all that has been said in this House in the last two days, we cannot come to any other conclusion from a purely technical point of view. We wish to stress that there is never in our words the personal harm of some Members, some state leaders, and the personal need for a different kind of behaviour, but to accept from us what other points of view, along other lines of thought, we can reach the conclusion that is contrary to your ideas. There are several reasons why I dare say so. The first and most important reason is the way in which it manages public debt. We read that the government debt will be 31,430.6 billion forints on 31 December 2019 in addition to the EUR 311. Here, for the record, it was 20,000 billion in 2010. But why would these two data alone be a gamble? A gamble could mean that, on the one hand, the euro is 328 and, on the other hand, what Portfolio says about the same issue in December 2017, for example. It says that today's vision is that the government debt could exceed HUF 30 000 billion by 2020. So six months ago, Hungarian economist professionals projected the rate of public debt that this budget looks forward to over a year and a half later. And then we could ask where the economic policy of this projected sovereign debt is guaranteeing development, which will certainly convince us who this country will be able to produce those goods and that development and the GDP ratio that will make us acceptable according to EU standards. But now I'm going to move on to another aspect. When the President of the Budget Council praised the budget, he raised the same factors as those contained in both the text of the budget and the national presentation. This is compliance with EU standards. But let me say, as a Member, that, in addition to the standards that the EU applies, there is another very important factor, a very important community that really needs to comply with this budget, and this is the citizens of Hungary. The budget serves the citizens of Hungary. EU standards are important to have some kind of standard and cannot go beyond certain spending and certain bad economic policy decisions, but what is more important is that the citizens of Hungary feel that they can be implemented on the one hand and serve them on the other. My personal opinion is that the EU's regulations on this issue are very acceptable, but I see that what the budget text today contains on this issue, beyond that, is even more a gamble and a risk. After all, it is unthinkable that the projected 70,3 percent of the public debt-to-GDP ratio described in the budget will be reached by 31 December 2019. Imagine, all my honourable fellow Members and respected state leaders who are present, that if our public debt has increased by HUF 685 billion in the last three months, and by now 73.6 percent was 71.7 percent in December, can anyone imagine that, in one and a half years' time, with such a budget, in addition to such a less transparent and not very future-building economic policy, we could achieve this result? [[18.50]] And if we can't reach it, who among you will guarantee that all the resources planned for this budget will be available to citizens? Which one of you, who will press the yes button with a calm heart at the time when we vote, when you know exactly, is it impossible to implement this budget? But let's go to another aspect. On 23 May 2018, the Council of the European Commission formed an opinion and proposed that an adjustment of 1 percent of GDP would be necessary, because it considers our current policy to be extremely risky and that a significant deterioration in our budgetary prospects can be expected. So not only is our Prime Minister prognosticating a crisis, but the EU itself is saying that our existing talents are the result of a very strong risk and deterioration. What will the Hungarian government do? It sweeps it off the table and says that this budget includes everything the Council of the European Union requires in this material. I don't have it in this budget. Let us start by saying that if not yet in the budget, because a government always has to prepare for a worse scenario, which social groups will save this 1 percent of GDP, which is HUF 350 billion. No one in this House has answered that in the last two days. However, an answer must be given, and an answer must be given, because if today is the prospect that it is not the posters, it is not the communication of tens of billions, it is not the foundations that we do not know what its real purpose is, but we know that they can manage with a lot of money, they are not taken from them. It is not the programmes that fail, it is not the opaque flows of money that run out in an incredibly large number of chapters of the budget that we do not see any social benefits. Now, I think it's very likely that this 350 billion won't be taken from them. When the President of the Fiscal Council finished his exposé, he highlighted the fine work of the representatives of the government on the budget and said that this upward path he saw was favourable to him and was pleased that he had always had an opinion on a budget for the rise in the last seven years. I consider that either this or the previous budgets to be thanked for, the simple citizens whose work is paying taxes are the simple entrepreneurs who often pay taxes beyond their power and are not able to benefit from the profits that large companies and various public procurement-beneficiary organisations are actually able to pay the taxes they are subject to. The budget, its implementation, must primarily be praised not by state leaders, not by public decision-makers, but by citizens who collect all the resources that a government has to spend responsibly. It is very rarely said in this House, especially in budgetary negotiations, that without one citizen who pays taxes, we cannot sit here, we cannot do political work, there would be no state leaders, there would be no government, and there would be nothing to spend on all that prestige, various prestigious investments and often on cycoma. Given that I am a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to address in detail in the detailed debate the issues which I consider to be still worthy of speaking, but I would like to draw your attention to one question or one very interesting aspect. More than 9 billion funds are available to the National University of Public Service in the budget. In Hungary there are 66 colleges and universities. The budget will spend HUF 50.4 billion on 65 pieces, i.e. outside the National University of Public Service. Honourable Congressman, Dear State Leaders, This means that the National University of Public Service is provided with a budget of 11.6 times as much as any other higher education institution in Hungary. I believe that it is very important to promote the quality of the training of a university, but I find it difficult to believe that the university, which is not listed in international space, should receive an allocation of 11.6 times in the budget compared to the universities that are still included in the world's ranking. This shows me that this government does not prefer on a value basis, but that this government prefers on an interest basis in this budget. It is not visible from the budget that those with one third of the wage, who do live below the poverty line, could benefit from any benefits or wage increases that would at least give them inflation. A number of opposition representatives spoke about the factor that expected inflation would in any case take away the increases that were included in the budget. I'd like to return to public debt for a few more words. Today, when a baby is born, it is born with HUF 2.4 million in debt in Hungary. If the prognosis that you have set out in this budget law remains, it means that the Hungarian baby born on 1 January 2020 is coming into the world with a debt of HUF 3.2 million. And if I think about the people's celebration in Denmark over the last year because the country has repaid the foreign exchange debt, and it is just half their sovereign debt, their remaining crown-state debt in the GDP-to-GDP-to-GDP approach, as in Hungary, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot be proud of what this budget brings to the citizens of Hungary. Finally, allow me one thought. I consider that this budget is also the same, so after seven years, to which we can say that this budget has not lost its place of payment either. Once again, I say slowly so that everyone understands that this budget has not been able to lose its paying nature. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Group of Dialogue is the 10/2014 of the House Rules. Parliamentary resolution 37. In today's debate of the bill, pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, you will transfer 10 minutes of your remaining time frame to the Jobbik fraction. [[Defiance.]] Honourable Parliament! I'm asking if anyone wants to make a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Steinmetz, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As a new Member, I listened with interest to the debate on the 2019 budget. A number of criticisms and praises have been given today. Instead of criticism and appreciation, I am now asking the Parliament's support to take account of the interests of the people in the Marcal region when adopting the budget. With my right to represent, and with my duty, I have tabled 20 amendments to meet the real needs of the settlements here. At national level, these are not huge projects, but they greatly help the settlements. I'm thinking of road and sidewalk renovation, tarmacing inland roads, building community space. Two of the important investments are now highlighted. I was pleased to hear from Prime Minister earlier that the modernisation of the national road network is planned to continue. [[19.00]] In view of this, we hope that after road 67 there will also be a source for the justified renovation of road 68. On the road from Lake Balaton to the Croatian border, passing through Somogyország, there is considerable passenger and freight traffic, and the renovation of certain amortised sections is particularly justified. This investment would help to further develop the industrial centre in Marcal, as well as the safer accessibility and involvement of the so-called backup settlements in Lake Balaton tourism. The other, undoubtedly the most serious problem in the region is the situation of the hospital in Marcal. Based on the unique experience of tens of thousands of other people living in the region and on the southwest shore of Lake Balaton, it is also necessary to restart the previously closed classes of the hospital, to expand the current number of beds, and to improve healthcare facilities. In particular, it is necessary to increase the quality of outpatient and emergency care, to increase specialist and specialist staff, to improve their wages and, not least, to restore the professional, organisational and economic autonomy of the hospital. I was pleased to read these days that some rural health institutions could have significant improvements behind them. For example, the hospital in Veszprém received more than 10 billion forints, including a brand-new oncology center, renovated the intensive care unit, and created baby-friendly obstetrics. The waiting list for several surgeries has ceased and the waiting time for orthopedics has decreased to nearly a quarter. We hope that this wave of development will reach the city of Marcali as soon as possible, what the people here deserve. We hope that we have the government's will to do so, and that the budget allocation will also ensure that the hospital's development is covered. If there are still no funds to get the hospital in Marcali in order, I recommend that you be transferred from nearly HUF 30 billion to the government communication tasks. For people, from their paid tax dollars to more migrant posters rather than serials, it is more accessible to sidewalks, XXI. They need a century-old infrastructure and well-functioning healthcare facilities. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Gelencsér's speech now follows, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor.
u2018-06-28-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Enterprise Development Committee, I would like to speak, as appropriate, in matters relating to businesses, in relation to the 2019 budget. But I can't help but react to some of the little things I've been saying before. The first is: I say to Andrea Varga-Damm with the greatest courtesy that there are also Parliamentary Undersecretaries elected in the House with great difference, so that there are no more than we at this moment, not to mention the Speaker of the House, who is also pro-government. So when you said how many of us were there, you were a little mistaken. But it's more exciting for me because it's just a game, obviously not serious - what Ander Balázs said with a few speeches earlier, given that I've known him for a long time, by the way, we're from a county, and I see that he's always doing the same thing, and then he always expects a different result. He's lost to my fellow Member of Szászfalvi twice so far, but the thing is, if he keeps up like this, he'll have a third. You know, he's got statements about a complete lack of reality knowledge. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] to say one at the very beginning, you said, Congressman, that we claim that the best of the existing worlds has arrived in Hungary. [[Ander Balázs: They yelled that they did!]] Now, we never talk about the best of the worlds that exist, ever. We are talking about one thing: Hungary is on an evolving course, that is probably what people said on 8 April. Now, compared to this, you see the worst world in Hungary, so dialogue between us is difficult. And if a person in a country where all economic analyses show that many numbers could be listed here now shows improved trends from retail to investment rates, from the unemployment rate to the fall in government debt to GDP, the worst of existing worlds in this country, then it is possible that the fault is in his device. I now have the feeling that when Ander Balázs spoke, who I knew a few years ago, and at some point when he was in the county assembly, I took it out of his words that the worst of the existing worlds was the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period of government. [[Ander Balázs: There is truth in it!]] I feel a significant change in his voice today, because Hungary has entered the otherwise developing course, and Hungary 2018 is worse in his eyes than the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-government period. [[Ander Balázs: Why isn't he in prison?]] This is the approach that has been felt in Jobbik's policy over the past year, and it is likely that this has been rewarded by the Somogy electorate in your case as well. But let's go back to the businesses in respect of which I am a member of this committee, and I have always tried to incorporate the views of Kaposvár entrepreneurs into my work here in the legislation and in the faction, given that at the beginning of the previous term, we started an entrepreneurial club in Kaposvár, which meets from time to time, so it provides me with interactivity and knowledge of their opinions. In addition, I have worked throughout the cycle to visit them on a weekly basis and ask for their opinions over and over again. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the analysis of the draft budget of our country next year in many ways here in the last two days. Allow me, for my part, to do so with regard to tax policy affecting businesses. The economy of a country is enjoyed by businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises play a particularly important role in GDP production, employment, innovation, thus strengthening economic competitiveness without a large number of stable, growth-oriented and innovative SMEs. It is no coincidence that the developed countries are particularly concerned with developing entrepreneurial skills and skills, strengthening openness to entrepreneurship and self-employment, indirectly helping SMEs, such as creating an attractive business environment, ensuring a predictable regulatory environment, reducing red tape and direct support through grants or preferential loans. The prerequisite for a firm's stable long-term operation is its pre-planability. For this reason, the next year's budget, namely its stability and predictability, and the balance of the budget, are always crucial in terms of the life and functioning of an undertaking. These are the things that, overall, drive them to greater performance. It is a pleasure that the Hungarian Government has again submitted a draft budget to the Parliament next year, along all these principles, which will further increase the entrepreneurship. This can be achieved through measures such as the multi-annual wage agreement with entrepreneurs concluded in 2016 which will lead to further reductions in labour taxes next year, thus taking further steps towards full employment. In Kaposvár, the unemployment rate is now more towards the number 3, it is closer to the number 3 than the number 4, so we will take further steps towards full employment. Here it is worth noting that there are 750,000 more people working in Hungary, Kaposvár, today compared to 2010. Unlike in the case of socialist governments, when workers' health insurance contributions, labour market contributions and even public burdens were increased, even for retired workers. 2. In the light of the simplification and transparency of the tax system, the rate of the social contribution tax is expected to decrease by another 2 percentage points to 17.5 per cent next year, depending on the evolution of real earnings. [[19.10]] It is important that the new legislation also covers income previously bearing a health contribution, so that this tax does not go away. In sharp contrast to the tax policy of governments before 2010, when in Hungary it was almost everyday, that the basic tax rates changed within 12-24 months, and that the tax races did not cease to exist, but were always newer. 3. The small company tax, the kiva. By transforming the tax system already in 2017, the tax system created an even more favourable tax environment for SMEs. It serves to further increase the attractiveness of the tax, so that in 2019 it can be selected up to HUF 1 billion in revenue and balance sheet total. But I could also take as an example the specific tax, i.e. kata, of small-tax entrepreneurs introduced in January 2013. It is an undisputed advantage that entrepreneurs who choose to do so may tax under a simplified system. This means not only a fixed monthly tax that can be planned in advance, but also a simplification of administration. 4. We can't just leave without saying something about an accelerated source call. In addition to the scheduled rapid drawdown of the available HUF 12,000 billion EU funds, the primary objective of this period is to create a competitive economic structure. To this end, the general and energy and infocommunication development of enterprises, R &amp; D and innovation, priority tourism development and employment growth will continue to be supported by a significant amount in 2019. 5. Measures to reduce the black economy have improved the efficiency of tax collection and increased revenues from consumption tax. These are also circumstances which are of major importance for the planning and soundness of the budget. Dear House, Today, the economic role of SMEs has been appreciated, as most of the companies operating in Hungary belong to the group of small and medium-sized enterprises. From an economic point of view, the SME sector plays an important role in the country's income generation, the operation of foreign capital, investment and the social aspect in job creation and employment. For this reason, any draft budget that stimulates their development must undoubtedly be supported. The government's draft budget for next year is exactly like this. This budget should therefore be supported by me and my faction. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-28-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-28-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Attila Gelencsér that while he is walking between the benches, he is a simple Member. When you're not sitting in the velvet chair, but you're a congressman, you're not a secretary of state, and as long as the president presides and doesn't sit in the benches, you're president. Ergo, the numbers were fine. I have second bad news for our fellow Member, Attila Gelencsér. The fact that there are four somogyi sitting in this last row, because you don't know, but we grew up in the same town at the same time, only I went to another school, and we're the same age. So if it's anyone, then the four of us know a lot about Somogy, even because Somogyland is our heart. At least that's where I became human. But if you feel, Mr President, that the economic policy and the social policy that your governance has implemented have made significant progress in Somogya's life, then I must tell you that this has not succeeded. Somogyország is the country's 13th in terms of wages in terms of 19 counties and Budapest, so it is not in the front, and the gross wage is significantly below the national average wage, in which public workers' wages are not included. The average wage in Somogy is 230,000 HUF gross. I would like to tell you this, because you must have missed the fact that Somogy County is the third county most people travel abroad from. Thus, the unemployment rate and the job problem did not result from internal job creation and not from the public work programme, but from emigration. I'll tell you that I'm taking the data from an authentic environment, as three quarters of my classmates' children are forced to thrive abroad. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-28-120	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I don't see a candidate for another two-minute speech. Mr Ander Balázs will be able to speak in the next round. We now have a speech from the Jobbik Group, Ms Anita Potocsány Kőrösi.
u2018-06-28-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little sad, because I started my work as Members of Parliament a little over a month ago, and already, when we are talking about basically the most important legislation, the most important law, with the end of the 11th hour of the second sitting, I can practically talk about the very, very important problems of the constituency and the municipalities in front of an empty House. Yet I think that we cannot sit silently, we must not go home, but we must say these things. Basically, I'd like to say three things right now. The first is that I worked as deputy mayor of Siófok before I arrived in this holy house to pursue political work. What I have seen about the TOP applications has been mentioned several times today and yesterday - that when the municipality of Siófok, like the other municipalities, submitted these applications in spring 2015, we made an estimate of the costs, we made the calculations, we submitted the tender, and then we were happy to receive the decision two years later. It took you two years to get rid of who will receive money and how much you can make the improvements that are absolutely necessary for the settlements to develop. You're nodding nod that you didn't. This is factual, so decided the Somogy County General Assembly. [[Attila Gelencsér, smiling, says no.]] But that's how it happened, Congressman. Two years! I signed those contracts! Well, I know how long it's been between the submission of the application, the decision of the sponsor and the signing of the contract. And let's not talk about soft investment. In soft investment, the rise in wages caused the inadequate amount of tender. But when we talk about infra-red investments, we don't have to, I don't know what kind of economic calculations we're doing, we just have to go to a building material store and see how much prices have increased in recent years. At those prices, applications based on cost estimates in 2015 cannot be made from that amount. You can't make those infrared investments. So what happens? We're here now in 2018. Some of the TOP applications are completed by 31 October 2018. There are more places where they haven't even started yet. And why is that? The fact that when public procurement procedures are conducted and tenders are carried out is virtually ineffective. What can the municipality do? He's gonna write up the application, and you can't do that anymore. I was pleased when it was said that they would not expect the local authorities to take out loans. I ask you: how will they do that, how will they be able to make those investments if EU funds do not give us the opportunity to do so? They need to make two choices. One of them is that they stop. I think that this would be a blow to the face of voters and Hungarian citizens, as these investments are important, energy investments, road renovations and so on. The other is that it is abstract and does not perform tasks that would be mandatory. I would now like to move on to the next problem, and this is the transformation of the waste management system. Let's see what happened. You nationalised the entire waste management sector, and the municipal law continues to carry out the mandatory tasks of transporting waste. What does that mean? It means that, in the end, the municipalities will have to pay. What's going on? Technically, the municipality is forced to maintain these companies from its own resources to remove the waste from the houses of Hungarian residents. [[19.20]] Why is that dangerous? It's dangerous because you can't exactly turn those own resources into your investments, because garbage has to be taken away, it's a mandatory task. So here we are, that the municipalities are virtually impossible in this respect, and when I look at the numbers, yes, in 2017, there are HUF 654 billion and HUF 706 billion in 18 and HUF 737 billion in 19 in the central budget for the support of municipalities, but only a very small part of this is for accumulation purposes. So I'll ask you what the government will do with these applications. Because we know that there is a need to be accounted for, the Union will punish us if we cannot use the resources. Or are you trying to get loans from the municipalities? It's just nonsense! In the meantime, it is clear that the municipalities must pay for other basic tasks. And we didn't even talk about the fact that, in October 2014, when the municipalities were formed, a cycle programme was created. This cycle programme lasts until 2019, we hope, until October and not until May, as has been said several times from several mouths, to advance the municipal elections, but let us look at the fact that in these cycle programmes the body of representatives has thought of a certain amount of ideas that they would like to implement in their own settlement, and then, in practice, we could say that they can put them in the corner, because they will not have a source. There will be no source, and with this activity they will be even more insufferable, and the Hungarian people will be able to witness even less investment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, please.
u2018-06-28-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That Ferenc Gyurcsány did not become an inmate, my honourable members of the Government, it was your fault, there was no accountability. Promised there was no accountability. My fellow Member, Mr Gelencsér, believe me, I could use the cacti-like adjectives on Ferenc Gyurcsány, in which a real cannula from Somogyland would blush, but I do not want to fight Mr. President's anger, so I am holding back.
u2018-06-28-124	Good.
u2018-06-28-125	It's been eight years. It's quite simply that. It's been eight years, that's what we need to talk about. I don't want to start a value debate here, let's say, about the Horthy era, but after a Trianon collapse, they were able to make a folk school law in 1926 during Klebelsberg, according to which more than 3,000 new schools were built and teachers appreciated. It could be compared to what a teacher's salary was then, say, in pengo, and now an intern, a beginner intern, takes home the net 120 thousand forints per month for the work he has to do. I was talking about trends and trends, and, yes, it could be much worse, for example, it could be that they not only raise the wages of Klebelsberg Centre employees by 2.7 percent, but also, let's say, reduce them directly. But for personal benefits, this is all the more planned in the next year's budget, and this is nothing, because inflation will, as it is, take it away, my honourable fellow Member. The other is reality. Since 1980, Somogyar has lost at least 50,000 people from the population of 360,000 at that time. There's a reason for that. In order, I have also revealed the reasons that led to this terrible population disaster in our beloved county. That's what we're talking about, that's the reality that we're going to reveal, that's what we need to solve. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. He wishes to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-28-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking for a long time whether I should speak, whether I should speak or not, although I was prepared, there is a substance in front of me, but I would not like to share all my thoughts with you. Most of all, I was motivated to press a button, and so, towards the end of the debate, I would like to speak, when my fellow Member Attila Gelencsér said to one of Balázs Ander's speeches or one of his thoughts that it was not in harmony with reality, that some of his ideas, some of his data, were not real, and I remembered when Balázs Ander vehemensen brought up adult education and brought the data of adult education here. At a time when a person vehemently, fully aware of the truth, gives the camera and the microphone an untrue data, then, in fact, everything that he said in his speech, or what the members of the faction have said with the same vehementry, is questioned. Because if we quote data and charge or blame a government or faction for failing to perform certain activities or for a weaker performance, then we should at least quote it accurately and give accurate data. In the meantime, I was quick to find out where you were wrong, honourable Member. At the time, when he talked about adult education and about the proportion of adults in Hungary, he said that he was around 3 percent. This is the 2010 data. You remember wrong. In 2017, the participation rate was more than 6 percent and gradually increasing, but if I have to, I will also say a number. I can't give you any details on adult education right now, but I can give data to adult education participants: in three years, from the end of 2015 until the end of last year, so in less than three years, the number of adult education participants increased from 20 thousand to 50 thousand. So I ask you, when you say something, to tell me exactly, and not with some examples, like Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, that because she is among the acquaintances who have tried luck abroad and worked, this is a general trend, and this has only started in the last eight years, let's say, since 2010. Take a look at the numbers. Even before 2004, when we became a member of the European Union, a significant number of Hungarians lived abroad, tried or lived abroad for a long time, but after 2004, the number of people working abroad increased significantly in the period before 2010. This continued, but as has been said several times here, and sometimes, as opposition criticism, it has been said that it may not be true, what is said by pro-government representatives. But we also need to look at the data here, because it is true that in the past period, especially since employment has increased and wages have increased over the past period, there has also been a significant increase in backflow to Hungary, and the proportion and number of outflow, outwards, people who are engaged or working abroad and people who are coming back has been balanced. That is the fact, and this should be taken into account, and these data should also be managed in connection with a speech. I think that at a time when perhaps a better Member also said that this budget should be about wage increases, it would be good if Mr President knew that the government was not raising wages. The government is trying to create and create conditions, conditions, environments and economic environments by means of which economic operators are raising wages. And it is also a fact that real wages in Hungary have been rising for almost six years. Compared to the previous period of last year, wages have increased by more than 12 percent in Hungary. This is why, among other things, this kind of balancing happens between those who work outside and those who come home, because if I wanted to give an example of my own circle of acquaintance, I could give an example when a young man working outside came home with his partner to start a family in Hungary, because all in all, he earns about as much in his new workplace in Hungary as he otherwise earned out in Western Europe in his profession. So I think that, in agreement with my fellow Member, Gelencsér, if he is not in Canaan flowing with milk and honey, we have never said this, but we have made a step-by-step progress over the past eight years, and this budget is about making this progress, this progress continues and continues, and one of the proofs of this serious intention was the new Ministry of Innovation and Technology. [[19.30]] Because we need new thinking in the economy, we need new help in economic life, especially to help Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to work in an appropriate, competitive way and to produce a competitive product. And that can only be done through innovation and technological development. That is what we are trying to achieve, and that is what the government is trying to achieve with all the activities to which the provision of budgetary resources is included in this budget. It is included, as HUF 4000 billion is earmarked for investments, conditions and financial conditions are guaranteed for operation, and as forecasts and forecasts from not only domestic but foreign financial institutions show, Hungary is expected to increase by around 4 percent this year and next year. What if it's not what we've been saying for years, that we're going forward nice and slow, step by step, according to our options? The economy is increasing and the financial security of people who live from work in Hungary is increasing. That is what the 2019 budget is about, and that is what we want to ensure. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér.
u2018-06-28-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Varga-Damm Andrea condemns Somogy's economic data. In a sense, it's fair, but I'd appreciate more than the performance of the Somogy people that you've achieved in recent years. Obviously, we are not one of the strongest, richest counties. When did we owe you? You sounded like we just slipped down while the situation was upside down. The fact is, somogy data is constantly improving in the relation of the other counties. It won't take two minutes. We'll talk about it at a school meeting someday. [[Defiance.]] I'd like to say to Mrs. Potochka, she's right, too, that we're dealing with the TOP. You're right about that, but I'd like to adjust it to the fact that it's like someone in a witch's kitchen messed up, that's what he's trying to suggest, while we're talking about a 14-20 planning budget cycle and we're in the middle of it. Compared to this, significant TOP resources are on the local government's current accounts. Where, by the way, I hear Siófok has failed to prepare. So the problem is that there may be money in the current account, but the plans have not been completed, the preparations have not been completed, in which Mrs. Potocska may also have a significant role and responsibility. I'd like to say to Balázs Ander, you seem very nervous. [[Ander Balázs: No, of course not.]] The other day, he was a gypsy here in the House. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then he thought the press was tearing him apart for that. If you feel that your actions will be torn apart by the press, then the solution is very simple: don't gypsy me, no one will hurt you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Stop this and you won't be nervous and you won't have to make any noise. Thank you, I'm honored to have your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, to the extent possible.
u2018-06-28-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to answer a few questions. First, I would like to say to Mr Cseresnyés, State Secretary, that according to Eurostat 2015 data, the proportion of adults who took part in adult education was 3.3 percent. And I'm asking you not to be indiscreet... [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] Wait a minute, I'll answer you in a minute, and you'll be very surprised. So, I'd like to say that the data you're working with is not real from the point of view of society, because you've introduced 16-year-olds. In your data, 6 percent of all young people who leave school at 16 years of age and then can only return to school in adult education in two months. And this has increased from 3.3 percent to 6 percent of those in adult education. But let me tell you why you do not respect the fact that, for example, an opposition Member wants this to be at least 16 percent. After all, we know that the biggest problem in Hungary is the lack of skilled workers for companies. Well, in almost all reports, the State Secretarys for the Economy say that one of the very important and problematic risk factors of our economy is the lack of skilled labour and skilled labour. Adult education should be one of its engines, if it was forced not to acquire qualifications during normal school hours, then it might be successful in adult education. Don't be rude if we want it to be better. Because whether you like it or not, in Scandinavia, that's 30 percent. Now do you think we're arguing between 30 percent in Scandinavia and 3 percent and 6 percent in Scandinavia? Well, think about it. The OECD study clearly speaks of one million emigrants. There is no government man who has ever been able to determine how many people have left from a more authentic source. And all I can say to Congressman Gelencsér is that I have said that even in my personal life, I have experienced how many children of my age have gone abroad and do not wish to return. Finally, in these few seconds, let me say to the state leaders present: do not be unworthy of what we want better, because we are here because we want better. That's what we do. And if you are ever criticized or questioned in your work, you should be happy, because as long as you can be called to account, it means that you matter. Who doesn't matter doesn't count. And that's why I'm asking you in this cycle, too, that it's more about humility and then confidence, because it's always more effective than working. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-28-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-06-28-133	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you consider the reaction in a rejoinder, which criticizes what you have to say to be indignant, then there is a huge problem in your way of thinking, and there is a huge problem with your ability to argue. I'm just saying that you guys are wrong about a lot of things. And if something is claimed, it should be based on real data, real facts. Because, for example, what you're saying, I don't know where you've picked up this OECD one million emigrants, there's no such data in the world. For example, the United Nations has a survey that says that, compared to the population in Hungary, the lowest number of people in Central Europe work or live abroad, this is about 6 percent. This is the lowest in Central Europe. And there are countries in Western Europe from which more people have gone abroad than from Hungary. But it's a data that moves, that's mobile. Because, as I said, in recent years, thanks to the safer financial existence in Hungary, thanks to the ever-increasing wages, more and more people are coming back. So the desire to go and test myself is equal to the desire that I've worked long enough outside, I'm coming home, because here, too, I can safely ensure my existence through my financial means. So I only asked you that when you say something, it should be based on real facts and true data, which you have formulated. And that reminded me of the generalization, as a problem with many, many opposition speeches. They generalize because a municipality has a problem with some kind of institution, some kind of enterprise. That doesn't mean there's a problem elsewhere. They operate not only in Siófok, but also in other cities. There, where I come from, in Nagykanizsa, stable, of course, not easily, with very serious work, very serious management work, but they can operate waste transport well and economically in more than a hundred settlements. So don't paint a picture that everything that works in municipal and state cooperation is doomed to death, or it's just hard to operate, because the state sucks money or opportunity away from the municipalities. It is not true, because, returning to the thought of my fellow Member, Tilki, and a little to the speech of one of the socialist Members, Gyula Molnár, the municipalities received enormous help when debt consolidation took place. [[19.40]] Because the previous social government led them into debt traps, drove the municipalities by, for example, not providing money to carry out mandatory tasks which they otherwise imposed on the municipalities as a task, or by placing additional costs on the shoulders of the municipalities in connection with the performance of the mandatory tasks, but did not provide their funding from the budget. They were forced to be indebted to be able to function, or perhaps to develop, develop local governments, turn to credit, and become indebted. Very seriously, in the order of a thousand billion dollars, the municipalities were indebted, not on the basis of the principle of a Council system operation, but simply because the Hungarian economy was already in a position to rescue them from this debt trap, helping the municipalities. But what you are listing here is that this should be done, what you should do is believe that in 2010 the Hungarian economy was not in a position to solve everything from one moment to the next in eight years. But at least they accept, in addition to any criticism that may be justified in one or more cases, that we have done everything we can to get from one to the other, or to keep going step by step, whether it is an economic development, whether it is a local government or a job in the social field. This recognition should have been given to you many times, and, in addition to recognition, you should have given some critical thought in the budget to express your own shortcomings. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-28-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if any of the factions in this room would like to speak today. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There's only one faction here!]] Congresswoman, I'm afraid I can't give you the floor. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There's one faction!]] 'Cause they're out of time. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned and resumed from 8 a.m. I would like to announce that we have reached the end of today's agenda. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you.
