u2018-10-17-0	Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that György Szilágyi and József Attila Móring will help me with the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Ladies and gentlemen, Five years ago, the Parliament decreed that October 17th, the glorious day of victory of the 1596 Eger city ruin, would be Gárdonyi Memorial Day. Since 2002, it has also been the day of the Eger castle. The 24/2013 parliamentary decision was made with the aim of drawing the attention of students in public education institutions to the novel Egri Stars and through it to the outstanding event of Hungarian history. In addition, this year several cultural events of the year 2018 focused the work of Gárdonyi Géza. In March, the National Theatre revived the Egri stars as a joint production with the Hungarian National Dance Theatre. Three days ago, the digitally restored feature film, directed by Zoltán Várkonyi, was presented at the screenings of the European Art Mozi Day. From next week, they will start to project this work that many of us like all over the country. Dear Parliament, The Ministry of Human Capacities launched it in July, and you're one of us! His national policy project. In the framework of this, the Ministry provided a package of books and audio material containing Hungarian cultural values to around 800 families living in the sporadic region, including the Egri stars. We hope that children living in the sporadic region will also enjoy reading Gárdonyi's outstanding work and will be touched by the kind of national pride that made us all feel the heartbeat of following the adventures of István Dobó and Gergely Bornemissza. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. General debate on the draft law on the implementation of the law until closure. T/1671. Government referral No 1 and T/1671/1 on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2017 submitted by the State Audit Office of Hungary Report No 1 is available on the parliamentary network. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President and staff of the State Audit Office, who are present in the box. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, the author of the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2018-10-17-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to give a brief account of the management of 2017 and to explain how the budget law adopted by Parliament in 2016 could be fulfilled. The 2017 discharge bill provides substantial evidence of the effectiveness of economic policy measures and responsible budgetary management in the years behind us. In addition to a disciplined fiscal policy, stable public finances and macroeconomic developments in line with forecasts characterised last year. One of the most significant economic policy developments in 2017 was not in 2017 but in 2016. In November 2016, the government reached an agreement with the social partners, representatives of the employers' and employees' side, and we agreed to launch a six-year wage and tax reduction process. In fact, 2017 was the first year of this year when employers' public burdens fell significantly and wages increased significantly, mainly by the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, which affected the whole wage system. Thus, 2017 was the first year when the agreement resulted in a substantial wage increase, an increase in employment and a higher growth rate for the economy. So it was wrong for those skeptics who said that if the minimum wage increases by 15 and 25 percent to this extent, employment will decrease. The opposite has happened: more jobs have been created along with the growth of the economy, more people have been able to work and wages have also increased. The Hungarian economy achieved well above the EU average with an increase in gross domestic product of 4.1 percent, which exceeded 3.1 percent, at the time the budget was submitted. At the same time, the general government deficit in accordance with the EU methodology was also more favourable than planned, overall meeting 2,2% of gross domestic product. So I have to admit that we have underestimated the growth momentum of the economy, but I must add that when this was adopted by Parliament, and when the government prepared this, there has not yet been a wage increase and tax reduction agreement. So what happened here is that in the spring the government prepared this, during the autumn we agreed on the terms and conditions, and I can safely say that, according to our calculations, this six-year wage increase and tax reduction agreement added roughly 1 percent growth plus to the economy as a whole, which was essentially the case in 2017. As a result of the measures aimed at strengthening the stability of debt financing, without Eximbank's debt, the government debt decreased to 71,3% in 2017 and Eximbank's debt decreased from 75,9 percent in 2016 to 73,3%. In this connection, let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to a few things. One is that Hungary did not agree with the Eurostat methodology procedure, we debated this, and we think that there is a wrong professional calculation behind the revaluation but let us put that aside now, the second part is more important what I would like to say to you, but it can also be concluded in 2017 that if we count the balance sheet of Eximbank, if not, the debt still decreased. [[9.10]] So I consider it a significant economic policy result that, even with this methodological change, our debt ratio could decrease, as I said, to a significant extent; if I accept Eurostat's calculation, it would be 73,3%. Almost all sectors have contributed significantly to the acceleration of economic growth. The biggest increase in construction was in 2017. Obviously this is due to the dynamic growth of investment in companies and public authorities, but let me add that the family home creation discount, the launch and upswing of this programme, could also significantly increase the capacity of the construction industry in 2017. In addition, the performance of the service sector and industry also increased significantly. In 2017, more than HUF 8500 billion was invested, and both private and public investments were able to contribute positively to the growth of the economy as a whole. Another stable pillar of growth was consumption, which increased by 4.7 percent, supported by increased employment and targeted tax reductions. I would like to say this even longer, but allow me to return to investment for a moment, because a year or a year and a half is a long time. Allow me to briefly mention the most important investment programmes that were launched in 2017. In 2017 we were able to launch a 154 billion-dollar programme to improve and improve the state of the priority roads. It was equally important for us to continue the programme of agreements between the government and cities within the framework of the Modern Cities programme, and we spent HUF 90 billion on these developments. We continued to prepare the investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. We continue to believe that the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is necessary in order to ensure a smooth supply of energy. This is a strategic investment for the national economy. For these improvements, which are not only the area of the nuclear power plant, but also the development of the surrounding settlements and the region, we spent 56 billion forints, to be exact. The central budget spent the same amount of money on local government development; 45 billion for the construction and development of industrial parks, 44 billion for the construction of the National Olympic Centre, 34 billion forints for the development of the project Liget Budapest. So I think it is also noticeable that government decisions have also been able to make a significant contribution to the expansion of the economy. Returning to the further pillars of growth, along with economic growth, the number of people employed increased, reaching more than 4.4 million people in 2017. I just want to remind you that it was less than 3.8 million in 2010. The number of people in public employment has decreased by nearly 38,000. This continued this year, as well, in 18, so it is a trend. It is noticeable that more and more people are able to move from public employment to the world of work, and more and more people are able to get jobs on a market basis. It is no coincidence that by the end of the year, by the end of last year, the unemployment rate fell to 4.2 percent. The good news is that the wages of the employees have also increased. So not only can more people work, more people can work, we have an increase in our employment rate in which we were almost last in 2010, we are now above the EU average in this indicator as well, but the actions have also increased. The gross monthly average salary grew to HUF 297,000 in the national economy. The net real earnings calculated taking into account the family tax relief increased by more than 10 percent, to be exact by 10.1 percent. In terms of external trade trends, Hungarian exports of goods increased by 5.9 percent, imports by 8.4 percent, and although there is a concern that imports have increased more than exports, the trade surplus remains high, more than EUR 8 billion, which, I believe, does not give rise to concern. As a result of the measures aimed at ensuring the stability of debt financing, the foreign exchange ratio of the government debt decreased significantly to 26 per cent and the share of the stock held by foreigners to 37 per cent. So not only did it happen that the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product has decreased, but its structure has also changed significantly. I would like to point out that the foreign exchange ratio of government debt 8 years ago was still above 50 per cent, at the end of 17 it was only 26 per cent, and that the stock held by foreigners also decreased significantly, as I said, to 37 per cent. With this, Hungary's financial vulnerability has also decreased significantly. In 2017, the primary balance in relation to gross domestic product according to the Union methodology showed a surplus. This was achieved by 0.6 percent. It may also be worth mentioning to you, as this is always one of the press's favorite topics about what credit rating agencies say about us. We always say that we are happy to hear good things about us, but we are even happier when the market says good things about Hungary. The situation here was still that in 2017 the market said much better about Hungary than the credit rating agencies, but let us admit that in 2017 two of the three large credit rating agencies improved the prospects for our country's credit rating. So carefully, but they also did so much before the elections that they said that the processes were good, positive, and that we were given a positive rating of neutral. In view of all of this, we can say that the majority of the sectors of the Hungarian economy have been strengthened and, in addition, the balance indicators have remained excellent. So, compared to the mid-2000s, it is not the case that privatisation revenues, i.e. the sale of state assets and borrowing, fuel the growth of the Hungarian economy, but while the equilibrium processes are more favourable, the Hungarian economy was able to grow by 4.1 percent above the EU average. Of course, I have to be careful here, because I could say that we may even have grown better. During the last six months, you have been able to read a lot of news when the Statistical Office has carried out a revision of its previous estimates or calculations. That's what happened this year's first semester. Now we are talking about 4.7 percent of economic growth in the first half of the year, and 4.9 of the second quarter were two to three tenths lower in the first. Let's hope it can affect even 17 times. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's internationally recognised performance in recent years has established the establishment of an exemplary family support system in Europe as well, the establishment of a family-friendly Hungary based on the protection of family values. In 2017, the Hungarian government maintained one of the lowest 15 percent personal income tax rates in the European Union and the unique family tax system, which encourages both work and child participation. In the same year, we increased the benefit of families with two children to HUF 15,000 a month, leaving them with a net of HUF 60,000 more than these families. In addition, the family discount was made available independently of each other, and the state's wedding gift, i.e. we were able to maintain the first married person's discount, and we intend to maintain it in the future. The home-building program just came up. Through this, families could use up to HUF 10 million depending on the number of children. In order to support families in need, we have created a free textbook supply for students in grade 1-9. In the same year, the VAT rate on poultry meat, eggs and milk fell to 5 percent and the tax burden on restaurant meals and internet access decreased to 18 percent. [[9.20]] So not only did it happen that the economy grew more dynamically, the balance indicators remained positive, but we were able to start further tax incentives for a very wide range of people and maintain and even expand them this year. Dear Parliament, In addition to supporting families, our economic results have provided a basis for further improvement in the situation of workers. In 2017, the government continued with new elements the career plans started in previous years. Let me quote some of these. A 30 percent increase in the wages of the employees of county government offices was followed by a previous year's increase in wages of the county government offices in 2017. The employees of the National Tax and Customs Office received another 5% increase after the 30 percent increase in the previous year. Not only did justice workers receive another 5% increase, but there was also a wage increase for judicial and prosecutorial staff. The multi-stage wage arrangement launched in the health sector in 2016 also represented a wage increase for a wide range of workers in 2017, while in the social field there was a surplus of higher education and wage planning for daycare workers. In addition to the wage development of those working in the cultural field, higher education teachers and researchers' wage planning continued. Professionals in the field of law enforcement and defence continued their careers with a further 5% increase in wages. In the field of public education, he reached his final stage in the fifth year of continuous wage growth teaching careers, the qualification system was in place, teachers who had reached the retirement age, and the wage development of non-peducators who directly assisted the educational work, as well as the increase in the allowance for ethnic educators. Dear House, Thus, the impact of wage measures implemented in previous years will, of course, continue to prevail in areas which were no longer affected by a new wage increase in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, As promised in 2010, the government paid particular attention to the moral and financial appreciation of pensioners in 2017. It has kept in mind its objective of giving pensioners as much of the above-EU average economic growth as possible while guaranteeing age security. For the first time in the history of Hungary, all pensioners and pensioners received a pension premium in November 2017. This economic growth, which exceeded expectations, has made it possible to maintain the stability of public finances. The maximum amount of the pension premium per person was 12 thousand forints. The combined effect of an increase of 1.6 per cent and a supplement of 0.8 per cent in November increased by 2.4 per cent. In addition, at the end of 2017, 2 million 596 thousand people received a HUF 10 thousand Elizabeth voucher. I would like to mention here that the feedback from the Elderly Council was clearly positive about this form of support, so we have received feedback on the fact that this type of supplementary pension support was also positive. Between 2011 and 2017, the government increased pensions by more than 26 percent on average, whose purchasing power improved by about 10 percent due to persistently low inflation. In addition, the role of women in the family has also been given particular attention by the government, so we have maintained and will ensure that women with 40 years of entitlement can retire. Mr. President. Dear House, The government's priority was also to improve the situation of businesses in 2017, to strengthen their competitiveness and to promote the whitening of the economy. I mentioned earlier that one of the most important economic policy milestones of last year was the entry into force of the six-year wage increase and tax reduction agreement. As a result, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have been increased by 15% and 25% respectively, while the social contribution tax on employers has been reduced from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. In line with the latter, the rate of the health contribution also decreased to 22 per cent. In addition, the corporate tax reduced to 9 percent, reminding us that it was 19 percent for companies over 500 million HUF sales, 10 percent for small businesses, and 9 percent for small businesses, thus making Hungary one of Europe's most competitive Member States and countries in terms of profit taxation. In order to improve growth prospects, new benefits have also been introduced, for example after investments in energy efficiency and investment in startups. We have introduced that the deadline for the allocation of reliable taxpayers will be reduced to 45 days, so it is worth paying a fair tax in the business sector as well, as benefits from the tax office too. There have been significant facilitations in the regulation of small company tax. The tax rate decreased to 14 percent, the transition to tax status and the calculation of tax liability became more favourable. The eligibility criteria have also changed positively. The tax is optional from 25 employees to 50 employees, and the revenue threshold for the cessation of taxable persons has increased from HUF 500 million to HUF 1 billion. In order to encourage the competitiveness of the smallest companies, the income threshold of the specific tax on small taxpayers increased to HUF 6 million from 2017 to HUF 12 million. In order to reduce the tax administration burden, the threshold for the tax exemption of the general sales tax was partly increased from HUF 6 million to HUF 8 million in connection with the increase in the threshold already mentioned. Dear House, The implementation of the government's economic and social policy objectives could also be achieved by the budget in 2017. The general government deficit was reached in HUF 1314 billion and the lack of the central subsystem was achieved in HUF 1833 billion. Although the latter exceeded the planned one, this was due to the government decision to advance EU aid to the beneficiaries. We do not wish to change the practice that if subsidies come from the EU at a slower pace, the Hungarian budget should lend this to the businesses, municipalities and individuals concerned. This was the case in 2017, and it is the case in 2018. At the same time, the lack of a government sector in line with the EU methodology has been lower than the previous target, with 2.2 percent instead of 2.4 percent. The 2017 Finance Act was substantially amended on one occasion, and in May 2017 the government proposed to amend the law, to which the source was created by higher economic growth than planned and higher revenues as a result. As a result of this amendment, additional funding has been provided for economic development, transport development, education, cultural, social and health purposes. Let me highlight some of these: we were able to add HUF 50 billion in pensions, pension premium, HUF 26,6 billion in investment preparation funds, and HUF 6 billion in supplier development programmes as a result of these decisions. At the end of 2017, the favourable financial situation of the central budget also gave the government the opportunity to transfer additional resources under its responsibility to support educational, social, family and health development, cultural aid, certain sport, infrastructure development, tourism priority investments and sports grants. We have also been able to pay attention to additional support for NGOs and cross-border organisations, as well as domestic and cross-border churches. We were able to provide additional funding for programmes and grants in Transylvania, and the payment of the Erzsébet voucher has also been made to pensioners. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to mention a few more areas of public finances. The programmes and tasks of the various headings managed by the central budgetary bodies and chapters were completed in 2017 at HUF 10 258 billion, which was HUF 1525 billion more than in 2016. [[9.30]] The surplus has emerged in many sectors: education, cultural areas, religious activities, defence, welfare services and law enforcement. Among the investments, I have just mentioned this, but here I would particularly highlight the launch and continuation of some large higher education projects, including the investment of the University of Pécs, the development of a new campus of the University of Physical Education, the implementation of the investment of the University of Moholy-Nagy. The central budget also supported, for example, the financing of projects of the Patience Order, the joint development of Bethesda Children's Hospital or the Buda Mercy Hospital. We have also been able to provide resources to provide additional resources in connection with the operation of air rescue, the extraordinary support of health institutions, the operation of the residency system, the purchase of rescue vehicles from the National Rescue Service and the maintenance costs of health development offices. The government also took a number of measures in 2017 to address migratory pressures, protect the security of Hungarian people and the borders of the European Union. In 2017, due to the crisis caused by mass immigration, we were able to provide a significant source of HUF 155 billion. At the same time, nearly HUF 93 billion was available to increase the effectiveness of counter-terrorism. Perhaps it is not a coincidence, you can see from the scale of the amount that one of the results of the government's strong action is that our country is currently considered among the safest countries in the world. Allow me to add a few more sentences to the EU budget support. In 2017, we were able to provide such support to the beneficiaries, mainly based on the advance payments of the 2014-20 cycle. The projects of the previous period have basically been completed by 2017. Payments were increased by the amount of non-budget agricultural subsidies, which represented HUF 362 billion in direct income replacement allowances for farmers. Overall, nearly HUF 2933 billion of EU funding was provided in 2017. Dear House, The management of the Pension Insurance Fund between the sub-schemes was stable and balanced in 2017. I mention only the total revenue: HUF 3200 billion in revenue and roughly the same amount of expenditure were achieved. After the payment of the HUF 12.8 billion surplus of the fund, it closed with a modest, negligible deficit of HUF 5 billion. As a result of the wage increase and tax reduction agreement, the social contribution tax, which represents one of the main sources of income of the fund, has been reduced by five percentage points to an unprecedented extent. This form of economic stimulus left more than HUF 500 billion in 2017 for Hungarian businesses. This could have been used for development, investment or wage increases, as you can see from the figures, this was done and done. As a result of the reduction in the tax burden, the increased tax payments were compensated by the central budget in the form of a grant of HUF 200 billion for the fund. On the expenditure side, the largest item was obviously pension expenditure. It covered 2 million 164 thousand people. In addition, within the retirement expenses, let me highlight the HUF 225 billion spent on the 40 programme of women, at the end of the year some 150,000 women received an average of HUF 125 thousand in care to assist young parents in their childbearing and child rearing tasks. And the pension premium was also paid, which was made out of the pension fund in the amount of HUF 24 billion. As far as the Health Insurance Fund is concerned, the Health Insurance Fund has been issued for HUF 2262 billion. Twenty-seven percent of the fund's expenditure was used for cash benefits and 72 percent for health insurance to ensure the financing of benefits in kind. Here, one of the most important benefits in kind was the coverage of preventive care. We were able to raise our wages after 16 and 17 respectively, the salary of health professionals increased by 12 percent, the salary of specialists and pharmacists increased by HUF 100 thousand gross, and the basic salary of doctors and pharmacists who did not have an exam increased by HUF 50,000 gross. The monthly fee was increased by another 130 thousand forints, we were able to increase the financing of dental and protective care, home care and patient transport, and we were able to double the grant to dentists in addition to the general practitioners. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me mention one thing to give this expo some topicality: this is today's news that the World Economic Forum on its competitiveness list Hungary closed in 48th place after the 60th place last year. So there was a significant change. Of course, I must add that, behind these figures, we see an improvement in competitiveness as one of the most important processes. Let me say here that this measurement is obviously one of many, and it is always possible to argue with it, and Hungary will do it many times. The positive situation has been that Hungary has won 48th place from the 140 countries measured, and, of course, we cannot be satisfied with this, and we would like to see more competitiveness improved. I must also add that the WEF is measuring the competitiveness of a country, an economy, with 98 indicators, using a new method of calculation. Two thirds of these are new indicators that have not been used before. So the change was partly due to the fact that they took into account aspects that we had indicated before, which were not measured before, but now it has been included in the measurements. Of course, even here there are subjective elements, various questionnaires, which always give rise to debate. However, we are pleased that this feedback also shows that Hungarian competitiveness can improve permanently, because, as I said, we may have been a little underestimated earlier, and this has contributed to this change. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the President of the State Audit Office and its staff for their work on the audit, as they have contributed to giving them an accurate and clear picture of what happened in 2017 in the central budget, in the public finances. The Court also stressed in its report that in 2017 the budget was implemented in accordance with the legal requirements, and the bill presents the most important data and information in a realistic manner. To sum up, I can tell you that in 2017, a substantial increase in wages, a tax reduction, has accelerated the growth of the economy. The impact of this can be felt and felt by families, businesses and all Hungarians alike. The biggest challenge facing us is to support families, to further increase employment, to protect older people, to preserve our national identity and to protect our borders. Of course, we want to achieve this in a way that does not change for the most important purposes of ensuring the stability of public finances, increasing competitiveness and maintaining economic growth. I would therefore ask you to discuss and accept the closing bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-17-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. President, please.
u2018-10-17-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Parliament adopts the central budget and approves its implementation. The Fundamental Law also lays down that the central budget should be implemented legally and effectively, effectively managing public funds and ensuring transparency. [[9.40]] In addition to the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act, the principles governing the regularity of budgetary management are laid down in particular in the Public Finance Act and the Government Decree on the Implementation of the Public Finance Act and in the Accounting Act. According to this, the fundamental rule affecting the sustainability of the budget, its predictability and the development of public debt is that it is possible to commit within the limits of the available appropriations. This is the basis for responsible public finance management. The central subsystem institutions have a significant impact on the proper implementation of the budget and the sustainability of the budgetary balance. For this reason, it is important that their public spending is regular, transparent and accountable. The management of appropriations, the assignment of tasks adapted to redesign are the basic prerequisites for increasing the efficiency of the economy and the transparency of the management. The State Audit Office shall monitor annually the implementation of the central budget, the closure of the implementation of the budget of the financial funds for social security and the financial statements of the financial funds for social security, and the closure of the implementation of the budget of the separate public funds, on the basis of statutory requirements. The structure, content and logic of the draft law implementing the central budget are set out in the Public Finance Act. Dear Parliament, The discharge audit of the State Audit Office found that the implementation of the central budget for 2017 was regular, that the deficit and government debt developments were in line with the legal requirements and EU conditions. The discharge bill is well-founded and the data contained therein are reliable. During the drafting of the 2017 discharge bill, the Ministry of Finance complied with the requirements of the legislation and the relevant internal regulations, the content and structure of the bill complied with the legal requirements. In the central sub-sector of public finances, the development of the cash flow deficit was in line with the requirements of the Public Finance Act and the 2017 Budget Act, with a cash flow deficit of 4.8 per cent of GDP and 1833 billion forints. The government debt under the Stability Act, which amounted to HUF 27 977.3 billion in 2017 compared to the total domestic product, decreased from 74 per cent in 2016 to 72.9 per cent in 2017, its development was in line with the requirements of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. The extent of the deficit of the government sector according to the EU methodology was established in accordance with the Stability Act. The debt of the government sector in accordance with the EU methodology, as Minister said, was indeed 73.3 percent of GDP at the end of 2017 and decreased compared to 75,9 percent in 2016 with the same value or calculation method. The debt reduction requirement under the EU criteria was also met in 2017. In the 2017 discharge bill, the performance figures for revenue and expenditure of the central budget as a whole, including central and chapter appropriations, budgetary bodies, separate public funds and social security funds are reliable. The bill presents financial data and information on the implementation of the budget in a realistic way. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The main objective of our closing audit is to support Parliament in its decision-making on the admissibility of the bill and to strengthen transparency and accountability in the management of public funds. This time, too, we have sought clarity and user-friendly editing to determine the appropriate extent of the scope, in order to ensure that the audit findings presented in the Court's report can be widely used. The methodology for checking closure accounts has been established in accordance with the relevant legal requirements in order to give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole on the basis of the audit procedures used. The audit provides a comprehensive and objective picture of the reliability of the data contained in the 2017 discharge bill. The audit covered the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem, including five main areas: central management appropriations, appropriations related to chapter management and European Union support, central budget institutions, social security financial funds and allocated public funds. In these five control areas, the reliability of revenue and expenditure data and the regularity of the implementation of revenue and expenditure appropriations, budgetary accounts and budgetary, reports and residual statements forming part of them have been checked. In addition, we checked the regularity of the compilation of financial accounts and the balance sheet and profit and loss accounts of the institutions required to report to Parliament and the management bodies of the social security funds. Our findings on this matter do not affect our opinion on the bill, and have been assessed separately. According to the Law on the State Audit Office, the accounts for the implementation of the central budget are audited by the SAO. The structure, content and logic of the draft law implementing the central budget are set out in the Public Finance Act. In principle, this also limits the methodology that the State Audit Office can use to verify the accounts. Within this framework, for the fourth time in our 2017 discharge check, we have applied the methodology renewed in 2015 which resulted in the Court's audit covering 100% of the expenditure and revenue of the central subsystem. The State Audit Office of the State used statistical sampling methods in the course of the audit of the accounts and acted in accordance with its rules, accordingly deduced the determination of the total population on the basis of the checks of the selected items. The method of sampling ensured that the SAO could provide an informed assessment of the reliability of the data contained in the bill for all relevant areas of closure. Dear Parliament, The Court's audit also revealed conformity errors which did not affect the validity of the discharge bill in around one third of the audited organisations, which were linked to regulatory deficiencies and the inappropriate exercise of management powers. In the case of several health institutions, it was a mistake not affecting the qualification that an undertaking was committed in breach of the provisions of the Public Finance Act, in excess of the level of free allocation. The total reliability error exceeding the materiality level has been identified for payments made under the National Family and Social Policy Fund appropriations. Pursuant to the Court of Auditors Act, which entered into force in 2011, in order to eliminate illegal practices detected during the audit and the misuse or wasteful use of property, so-called awareness-raising letters were sent to the heads of the audited organisations. [[9.50]] The head of the audited organisation shall assess the information contained in the notice letter within 15 days, take the appropriate action and notify the State Audit Office of the measures taken. The Court of Auditors may, in the framework of a follow-up audit, verify that the organisation involved in raising awareness has implemented the action taken. With a letter of awareness, the Court of Auditors can also generate a change and improvement in the order of public finances. On this basis, the State Audit Office called on the organisations concerned to take action to address the deficiencies identified. It has also been concluded that the majority of the shortcomings identified in the calls for attention identified a year ago in the monitoring of the implementation of the 2016 budget have already been replaced by the recipients. Overall, we can say that the organisations have complied with their action obligations in the awareness letter. Based on years of experience, it can be said that the vast majority of irregularities and deficiencies detected by the Court's audits have already been eliminated by the organisations concerned, thus making use of the audit work of the State Audit Office. In order to support Parliament's decision-making work more effectively and effectively, the appendix to our report includes a brief summary assessment of the results of the audit of the accounts of the institutions required to report to Parliament. A summary evaluation of an organisation was carried out with the aim of informing the Members of Parliament about the reliability of the financial management data contained in the accounts of the organisation, since the accounts of the organisations also contain information on the organisation's management. Dear Parliament, In recent years, Parliamentary Members and the professional public have been called upon to provide feedback on the deeper context of macroeconomic processes. In view of this, five years ago, we decided to prepare an analysis of the context of the implementation of the budget for that year in addition to our report. We did this work again this year, and you could get it in writing and also electronically accessible. The analysis was submitted to Parliament together with the report, thus fulfilling the statutory task of the State Audit Office to support the well-managed state and the work of the Fiscal Council with analyses and studies in its functions. The macroeconomic analysis of the State Audit Office showed that Hungary's economic growth in 2017 was more favourable than expected; GDP growth was 4.1 percent compared to last year, which was 1 percentage point higher than foreseen in the 2017 Finance Act. Perhaps that is why it is important to stop here for a moment, because we can see how uncertain the estimate is even for the business sector, a year and a half before a budget is reached. If we recall the debate two years ago, it was an optimistic budget estimate or a basic assumption of the bill that it would be 3.1 percent. There have been international value forecasting organisations that have projected an increase of 2 per cent or less and have since changed the final result more and more positively six times since then. This circumstance should also be mentioned in relation to the text of the opinion on the 2019 budget debate. [[He's showing me a document.]] which, again this year, the current Parliament must take into account, appreciate, and ultimately make its decisions on the draft law year after year, in terms of the next year's budgetary framework. Returning to the final report itself, investment was the main driver of economic growth based on the assessment of our colleagues. The volume of investments in the national economy increased by 18.2 percent in 2017, the volume of investments in works by 21 percent and the investments in machinery by 13 percent. In 2017, the added value of industrial emissions exceeded 3.9 percent in 2016. The construction sector has increased significantly by 31,6 percent and the added value of services has decreased by 3.3 percent, but agriculture has fallen by 9 percent. Housing and infrastructure development from EU co-financing have also contributed to the expansion of construction production. The recovery was supported by post-house tax refunds, a family home-building discount, a favourable lending environment and the replacement of deferred investments, which was clearly covered by increased public purchasing power. The six-year tax and wage agreement, which entered into force from 1 January 2017, was a factor to strengthen the sustainability of the positive macroeconomic processes, as the employer's income increased due to a significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and other wage increases, while the reduction of the social contribution tax and corporate tax led to lower employer's burden. In addition to the nominal wage increase, real wages also increased significantly: the average monthly gross and net earnings of those employed increased by 12.9 percent from 2016 to 2017 and real earnings increased by 10.3 percent in 2017. The measures related to the agreement also encouraged job creation and labour retention. The number of employees in the competitive sector increased by 2.9 percentage points, while the public sector fell by 3.5 percent as a result of a conscious reduction in public employment and the employment rate increased by 68 percent. The government's tax policy measures include a 5 percentage point reduction in the social contribution tax and the introduction of a 9 percent corporate tax rate, which indirectly contributed to an increase in domestic demand, an increase in employment and a further increase in exports. The measure also stimulated the establishment of high capital investments capable of generating high added value. This is confirmed by the fact that in 2017 we received a record amount of foreign working capital of some HUF 1000 billion, according to the data of the National Investment Agency. In 2017, the tax system continued to favour types of consumer traffic taxes and reduced the weight of taxes on income. A higher amount than the amended appropriation was achieved, including corporate tax, personal income tax, but revenues for more than one type of tax have not reached the amount of the modified appropriation, such as simplified business tax, advertising tax, excise duty. Although VAT revenues were lower by 0.5 percentage points, revenues in 2016 were higher than HUF 235 billion. The reduction of certain basic foods and the VAT on the Internet contributed to an increase in household consumption, which exceeded the GDP rate by 4.7 percent, while the increase in VAT revenues was moderated. This is due to the rise in real wages and, at the same time, domestic demand. I think this is where we have to ask whether these processes are sustainable, what is the condition for moving forward, what conclusion can we reach. The Court of Auditors has also tried to do so, since we need to contribute to the assessment of the next period, so allow me to mention this. I would like to add here that the sustainability of the positive macroeconomic processes is also supported by our analyses for the year 2018. Wages and consumption are increasing, tax revenues are coming into the budget reliably. [[10.00]] However, I am convinced that the sustainability of the positive budgetary and macroeconomic processes that have taken place in recent years rests essentially on three main points. On the one hand, programmes should continue to improve the efficiency of tax collection, on which it will be possible to further reduce the public burden on labour and thus further boost the economy. That's what I call sustainable whitening. The continuation of our tax policy measures in recent years is a key issue for sustainability, i.e. a consistent reduction of labour taxes and efficient collection of traffic-type taxes. Moreover, in our competitiveness with neighbouring countries, the Hungarian economy will continue to face repair challenges here. I am convinced that the Hungarian tax system, including the Hungarian economy, is based on sales-type tax revenues, which must be protected by all means. In order to strengthen sustainability and develop a well-managed state, it is also worth paying attention to a wider issue, and this is the use of digital solutions. Exploiting the full potential of digitalisation not only creates opportunities for the economy, the population, but also for the state to increase the efficiency of its operation, to provide better quality public services. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the measurement is particularly important for the state to set objectives of effectiveness for all projects launched using public funds, because the effectiveness of investments and the spending of public funds can only be determined through them. So, overall, I would like to refer to three pillars of sustainability: the issues of whitening, digitalisation and measuring results. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Our analysis of the macroeconomic developments in 2017 also showed that, at the end of last year, the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem was significantly higher than the initial statutory allocation, partly due to the underperforming of EU revenues, partly due to the government's conscious Minister's decisions, which were otherwise in line with public finance legislation. The domestic budgetary advance of EU funds and, thus, the speeding up of tendering has temporarily increased the cash flow deficit, yet it is appropriate to consider it a step extending the scope of countercyclical fiscal policy. During the economic period of 2017 and today, the business sector is able to meet the additional requirements of the tenders, such as employment expansion or export growth, any increase in turnover at all, and consequently, for EU funds, the speeding up of the tendering process has led to dynamics for investment in the business sector. If we look back at the much more difficult period in 2008-2012, the business sector could not do so then, rather, the recovery decisions were in the forefront, at least the waiting was clear. Thus, in the long term, the Court of Auditors and I, for my part, consider it beneficial that this pre-financing capacity of the country strengthens sustainability in the longer term. Moreover, the costs of the excess government debt issuance required by the advance were significantly lower than those experienced in previous years in 2017. At the same time, the advance of EU funds also served as a reserve, which was also specifically highlighted by the Fiscal Council, and the SAO in its analysis, as the advance amount will be reimbursed by the EU to Hungary in later years. With the advance of EU funds, the wave of EU resource use for the 2007-2013 support cycle, the difficulties arising from constraints, any errors made, and businesses could be made interested in resource use at present. Macroeconomic analyses have also shown that the resources allocated to public tasks have increased for each of the main functions compared to 2016, with only a reduction in the costs of sovereign debt management, which is a positive process. In 2017, the government invested significantly more in defence, prevention of terrorist acts, law enforcement and improvement of public security, as well as in the development of migration pressure management. In 2017 55.2 percent of public finances were spent on education, health care and social security, which is HUF 860.4 billion more than the previous year. Expenditure on housing, municipal and community activities and services increased by 0.3 percentage points, while expenditure on government debt management became 0.7 percentage points more favourable than the amount for 2016. This is where we have to ask the macroeconomic question of what kind of state Hungary would like, because the question is whether the positive question is whether the state always spends more in all areas, or whether a smaller state, with a smaller tax system, creates a less caring environment. I think that this issue should be placed at the heart of everyday economic policy, as it can determine what career Hungary will mark in the longer term, because in the V4 countries, or in the neighbouring countries, a much smaller state is typical, with less redistribution, less tax collection, and accordingly a macroeconomic environment for other state economic operations. It should also be said, when the Minister for Finance was talking about current data, just in terms of competitiveness assessments, that we can see that the quality of the state, the nature of the functioning of the state, has been assessed in a positive or negative proportion on a competitiveness issue, and, as we can see, this is changing in time, even in international judgement. So I think that there is a less pressured economic policy environment where a substantial longer-term debate can be held, because the years 2016-17 have created a good basis for consolidation, a growing path for government policy and the combined impact of the external economic environment, both on the side of consumption and on the investment, supporting this. But where to go further, I think that this question really has its place and role to play, and what kind of state we would like to be competitive with in the coming years in Hungary. Honourable Members, I believe that by means of our report and analysis published on 5 October and forwarded to Parliament and the Committee on Budgets, we will contribute to the favourable budgetary processes and support Parliament's decision to adopt the legislative closing act. Our work is useful because our experience contributes to the application of sound and long-term fiscal policy. Finally, allow me to thank, on the one hand, the economic leaders of the various institutions involved in the compilation of the report, the wallet and the Treasury, because this may have appeared as a huge administrative task over the past period, but on the other hand also the colleagues involved in the audit, and those involved in the analysis from the Court of Auditors, I would also like to thank them for their efforts from here. I wish you a meaningful professional debate for the next few hours. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-17-5	Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Parliament, The 2017 discharge bill was submitted at the end of September, in accordance with the legal deadlines. The purpose of such a closing account, as it is in his name, is to draw a final balance from the year behind us. [[10.10]] By studying the document, it can be said that, in line with the practice of the previous years, the last year has been characterised by responsible management, with a profit-based deficit according to the EU methodology being achieved at 2.2 percent of the total national product. At the same time, it is important to see that millions of Hungarians have performances behind favourable macroeconomic indicators and percentages. Compared to the gross domestic product achieved last year, we can all be proud of a 4.1 percent increase, as this is a significant increase in historical terms. The Government has repeatedly expressed its view that only in the case of sustained and more economic growth than the average of the European Union is there a reality of catching up with a number of countries with a more fortunate history. Greater economic growth is, as a matter of course, greater budgetary revenue, leaving more room for manoeuvre for the government and for all of us. I could say that if we can bake a bigger cake, then everyone has a slightly bigger slice, and there is less debate about the scale of the redistribution. In the autumn of 2016, a six-year wage agreement was concluded with entrepreneurs, so 2017 was the first full year to show the effects of a multi-stage tax reduction. Overall, despite tax reductions, due to increasing wages and employment, personal income tax generated HUF 127.5 billion, while pension and health insurance and labour market contributions generated HUF 147.8 billion higher revenues than originally planned. We can therefore legitimately trust that these processes can persist over the next period, the results of which can be felt by Hungarian families and domestic businesses alike. We also consider it a significant achievement that measures aimed at whitening the economy meet the expectations. As a result of the online cash registers and the EKÁER system, there is a significant surplus in the development of revenues from the general sales tax. The popularity of the two light tax types of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is steadily increasing, as in the case of individual taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, we can see a 30 per cent overachiever, while in the case of small corporate tax we can see 65.7 per cent overachiever compared to originally planned. Not only the state, but people have been able to farm with more money in the last year, as real wages have increased, resulting in a 4.7 percent increase in household consumption. The number of people employed continued to increase by 1.6 percent in 2017, the number of people employed in the competitive sector increased by 2.9 percent, while the number of people in the public sector decreased by 3.5 percent. Thus, the number of employees has risen to an unprecedented level since the regime change, over 4.4 million people and resulted in an employment rate of 68.2 percent. The main role in the expansion was the competition sphere, while the number of public workers decreased. As a result, unemployment decreased to 4.2 percent last year. Dear fellow Members, With regard to the expenditure side, the government's home creation programme should be highlighted. In 2017, housing subsidies increased by 24,6 percent compared to the previous year, where the amounts spent on family home-building benefits and tax-refunds exceeded the 2016 amounts by about 80 percent. The government has fully ensured the coverage of wage increases on various career models working in the public service. I would like to stress here that in order to reduce migratory pressure, the government has spent 155 billion forints last year to carry out border protection tasks. In 2017, investments in the national economy increased by 18.2 percent, which significantly exceeded the predicted increase of 9.1 percent. In addition to the capacity-building of businesses, the development of the 2014-20 EU budget cycle has also played a role in the growth of investment activity. Hungarian foreign trade also showed a massive surplus in 2017, despite a 4.7 percent increase in Hungarian exports and a 7.7 percent increase in imports. On average, prices increased by 2.4 percent in 2017, so that inflation was higher than the projected 0.9 percent. The increase in prices was essentially due to higher than expected increases in energy prices and to a higher increase in world prices for some basic foods such as dairy products and pigmeat. The proportion of gross government debt to the national total product has fallen from more than 80.5 per cent in 2011 to 73.3 per cent by the end of 2017. The decreasing rate has been achieved despite the fact that Eximbank is included in the data series. If it didn't have to be counted, this ratio would have decreased to 71,3 percent. The main strategic objective of Hungarian government debt management remains unchanged, i.e. to reduce the debt ratio while increasing the ownership of domestic sectors and reducing the foreign exchange debt ratio. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio decreased from 52 per cent at the end of 2011 to 24 per cent and the foreigner ratio decreased from 65 per cent to 37 per cent. This has contributed to a reduction in the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. Dear fellow Members, The bill on the implementation of the 2017 central budget and the State Audit Office report also support the government's management of budgetary processes in a sustainable manner. I would also like to thank the State Audit Office for its extremely high quality work, which, with its reports and audits, assists Members of Parliament in their decision-making. Of course, we cannot go without saying the work of the Fiscal Council, as their contribution also contributes to the development of a responsible, sustainable budget. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The final accounts for 2017 show beyond any doubt that the implementation of the budget was lawful, planned and enforceable. This is confirmed by the opinion of the State Audit Office, which it submitted to the bill. It is also apparent from this proposal that the government is on the side of decent citizens, honest entrepreneurs and workers, and not least families. As I said at the beginning, the fact that the Hungarian budget has performed well and the Hungarian public finances are in order is in it all Hungarian people, all of us working together. Ladies and gentlemen, However, 18 years in Parliament during the debates on budget and discharge laws, I would like to add a few things to what you have said in person. During this period, the opposition has made a contribution to this budget in such a way as to adopt it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I didn't say a word!]] that, although it seemed to have submitted amendments to it, its representatives did not vote in favour of them in a manner that was not responsible. [[10.20]] They didn't vote for any of those proposals. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] which would have helped the work of the Hungarian people. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Louis, don't embarrass yourself.]] Of course, during the debate on this bill [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: The State Secretary has been able to do this! You don't know how to do it!]] You can comment and express your opinion. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Thank you very much! The president's ringing the bell.]] We will listen to it, Mr Z. Kárpát, but we can add that you have been constantly turning to international organisations about the fact that this budget will not be respected, and this budget needs to be amended several times. Compared to recent years, it was also refreshing to see that this 2017 budget had to be amended once, as the Minister said, because revenues have increased and new opportunities have been created to help various social groups in the budget. They all said in the debate on the budget that it would not be respected, that it would not stand on its feet. Here, I would like to refer back to the 2008 2009 budgets, which had already failed on the day of their adoption, and the 2009 budget had already to be amended in January 2010. On this basis, I can tell you that this budget has been respected, and since 2010, this government has had budgets that have not been revised retroactively, and it is refreshing to say that, at least now, there does not seem to be any amendment to this accounts that plans for ex post accounts. This is also a predictable and safe way of making a budget that I congratulate the government on, and I urge my fellow Members to adopt the 2017 discharge law after their discussion. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, With due respect, I ask my fellow Members that, since we never interrupt anyone during the keynote speeches, none of the speakers, please take this into account in their speeches. [[Szabolcs Szabó: What new rules we are learning here slowly! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Right!]] Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Zoltán Balog has informed the President of the Parliament that he has resigned his seat today. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 198. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-17-7	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to say and say that I thank you for the opportunity to speak, although when the opposition has not spoken yet, but the representatives of the governing parties are already taking the opposition attitude and attitude, this certainly raises the suspicion that there will not be a profound professional debate here, but, on the one hand, a victory report appropriate to the level of the political conference, and, on the other hand, the unconscionable classification of political opponents. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Deny it!]] Which, let's be honest, makes no sense at all. What we should be talking about now: perhaps the most important bill of the year, the implementation of the draft budget law, how it is done, its professional criteria, and there would certainly be something to explain on the certificate. I would add that at many points, I recognise what is happening from the budget, and we can find positive processes in many directions, and negative ones in many directions, but I will not give in advance the opportunity of a professional debate with these classifications, my fellow Member, that is unworthy, and since you have been a Member for 18 years, especially unworthy, I will not sit on this, I will not give in to provocation in this direction, but I would like to respond in substance to your words. When it is said that the opposition is submitting proposals for an apparent amendment, my dear fellow Member, he is talking about more than 1100 opposition proposals from two years ago and over 500 in the recent period. What you have just said is broadly equivalent to the fact that this 1100 plus five hundred of all opposition proposals contain net crap, pointless proposal, pointless idea. [[To Dr. Lajos Szűcs:]] He's gonna spread his hand and nod in agreement, okay? [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs nods.]] I understand, I take it from the group dynamics that some pro-government Members hope not all of them think so about opposition proposals, because they have all been voted down one by one, so in this mass of proposals of a thousand magnitude, they have not found anything worthy of passing through their own names on the system. What we are talking about because he nodded and thought that these were pointless suggestions: for example, we are talking about maximum support for the flask baby program without a hat in the middle of a demographic winter, when all Hungarian families who are trying to have children should be given the highest possible level of assistance. This proposal was also voted out, and Fidesz-KDNP rejected the unlimited support of the flask baby program, so when it nods in agreement, you agree once again after your vote that the flask baby program cannot be supported without a limit in Hungary; I think it is a shame and a disgrace, but I respect your opinion, I just don't understand it. Similarly, the Fidesz-KDNP faction said no to the concept of the rental program. The reason why we cannot now look at this further in terms of closing accounts is that, at the budget stage, Hungarian young people said no to the possibility of renting new-built apartments at a reasonable price when they are not able to pay brutally runaway market prices. If we look at the number of vacant properties available and if we look at the effectiveness of the public work programme mentioned by my fellow Member, perhaps bringing the two closer together, then we can see that the exploitation of the vacant property would have been worth a sensible budget debate, too, unfortunately. I could go further on the proposals of the bled-out opposition, but this is not the subject of the current meeting, nor is this the subject of the agenda, and I therefore do not wish to deviate from this further beyond the range of reactions. However, the government's report on the financial year behind us cannot be accepted even because of the basics. One of its basic functions would be to provide us with information about the state's assets in terms of value and, moreover, naturalities, which, since it is farming, I assume that the government will define itself as a good farmer, but we cannot obtain sufficient information, a clear picture of the property itself, nor about the change, growth, or likely loss of property. So we can't really get to it, the one-time representative, who gets to know these data, can't get access to a statement that would include what the Government of Hungary has been doing in the past, in the period covered by this budget, how much the Hungarian state's assets have decreased, how the family silver at all has changed. I must say that all of this in itself undermines the professional credibility of this proposal, but what amazes me is the glory of the government in terms of economic processes. If anyone is, then I am very happy that GDP is growing in Hungary and, by the way, the improvement of macroeconomic indicators is undisputed over a decade. So do not let anyone think that what is worse, the better, the better we approach this issue, there are such things in this House, the Jobbik faction is not one of them. However, starting from the 4.1 per cent increase in GDP alone, it shows incompetence and politicisation, because what does this one indicator in itself say about the Hungarian national economy? It can give orientation, but the mantra-like way of pushing it without any support, it's quite easy to get the job done. What are we supposed to talk about here? The role of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the 4.1 percent increase in GDP; the role of multi-company companies that untaxed, typically untaxed profits from Hungary. We are also very happy about their growth, but only if they are involved in the system of public burden-sharing, and let us be honest with you that the expansion to corporate tax has affected Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises at about 1 percent level, but it has given a brutal advantage to a multinational network that has not yet been involved in public burden-sharing in the way expected, and which has so far been said to have received in many cases, in the form of job creation grants, the two-year salary of the hired workforce, and for a longer period of time, a multi-company does not really undertake to employ the workforce concerned. I must also say that, although a similar increase in GDP is commendable, it is very important to know whether this is really sustainable. [[10.30]] It is important to know the extent to which the spillover effects influence the fluctuations in EU funds. I am therefore very pleased if the Government of Hungary is talking about investments made on its own initiative. But it doesn't matter whether it's the madness of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line that never returns and is borrowed, or it's intelligent productive investments, because they do. I think it's a good idea to spread them out. On the other hand, at the number level, the increase in GDP that has been shown here in recent years is worth looking at, we have closed data on 17 in 2010-17, where we can fully examine economic processes, so we have increased by 17 percent in this Orbán era, while according to the statements, the so-called post-socialist countries have increased by 20-22 percent. So, in this seven-year perspective, we have not even managed to reach the expected average at regional level, and we can also see that the Baltic countries and even Romania have gone by our side in terms of this indicator, which is shocking in itself. I would also like to say to you that, in terms of economic development, this is approached by GDP per capita; it is not certain that it is a completely correct indicator, but let us accept it in this respect in the Eastern bloc of the EU, not only Slovenia and the Czech Republic, but also Slovakia, Poland, Estonia and Lithuania. That's where we are right now. I do not address to Mr State Secretary that Austrian GDP is almost 2.7 times that of Hungarians. I have to say that it is not the expected level to achieve or exceed this within 10 years, but it is absolutely certain that some kind of orientation will be seen by the Hungarian government, other than calling down foreign funds and EU funds and trying to turn them into the Hungarian economy at an amazing rate of corruption, so that in a good part of public procurement you are familiar or good friends. I was also shocked by the polemia that we had here. Perhaps we were discussing this with my fellow Member Vejkey when I debated why the proportion of single-member procurement was so high. You all know from the pro-government benches what a single-member public procurement means in Hungary. They tried to reassure me that the indicator was wrong, and I said too high, supposedly, based on Eurostat data. Okay, hold it. All right. And in my memory, my fellow Member noted that the ratio is not so high, because the proportion of single-man public procurement is only 19 percent. Because! This is what was said in the Hungarian Parliament, that it is only. And I'm telling you, this means scandalous processes. Processes that exclude genuine competition that we cannot go without saying a word. I would also like to say that I supported the Government of Hungary in the fight against sovereign debt, but, unfortunately, it was a clear failure, because we have to state that the debt of the State did not fall last year or any previous year, but, to a modest extent, the share of the already mentioned, not too good indicator, as measured by GDP. I understand that many of the market players have used this approach, and I accept that. However, I would like to point out that the minimum cosmetic reduction in the GDP debt ratio does not necessarily mean that public debt can be exceeded, and it does not necessarily mean that the mere interest burden of around a thousand billion per year on the Hungarian national economy could be reduced at any level and scale in the coming years. The liberation of a similar mass of resources would have made the government's madness yesterday, where the state aid for housing savings was dozed down, dismantled and stopped in two days. What we see here is that, with multiples of these masses, the government is leaving in a close account as if it were a mandatory component, with a thousand billion-dollar interest burden on a national economy. And I say that it is possible to argue about how public debt management is managed, to argue about its effectiveness, but to discuss it is not a historical sin. I would also like to say that tax issues will obviously be further dissected by my colleague in our group, who deals with this specifically and much more than I do, but I cannot go along with the fact that in 2017 there was about HUF 110 billion less than expected in terms of corporate tax. That's a 15-percent cutback. However, there is no substantive justification for this in the proposal, nor is there any indication that it is okay for us to have the lowest corporate tax rate in the EU of 9%, but in what way it is beneficial for large companies operating here. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the system of taxing large companies operating here is the lowest tax rate, so they are already meeting with tax haven keys in Hungary, and they also receive a lot of non-refundable support, job creation support, infrastructure investment, we have to say that this is actually a multi-company caressing. And in the public parts of the strategic contracts concluded with them, there is no indication that the Government of Hungary would attempt to catch up at least slowly with Hungarian wages. What is happening now is to explain to us that, because of the lack of labour supply in sectors affected by labour shortages, there is an amazing increase in wages in some sectors, and they are trying to drag this on the entire national economy as if it were due to the government's good or excellent attitude. Unfortunately, the reality is much darker, and I have to tell you: last year, the total corporate tax rate was HUF 625 billion in the corporate tax rate, so there are clearly signs of neoliberal government economic policy. The reason I can say this is because the biggest multi-companies here are MOL, Audit, GE, Telekom, Borsodchem, Mercedes, Hankook, which is very, very modest in terms of their capital strength and profits, and is particularly modest in all international comparisons, and the lowest corporate tax rate in Europe, whereas the largest VAT rate refers to an amazingly distorted tax policy. Once again, it is incomprehensible to caress the multi-networks that the government is doing. I would like to say that there is a need for these multi-enterprises in Hungary, and there is a need for cooperation with them. This is not a question or a question, we need the healthy cooperation of the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector with all those involved in public burdens. The only thing we can see is that while the appointed archenemy does not interfere with many people in the interests of this government, Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; and it is clear from both the draft budget and the closing accounts that even in such a very important instrument as the later use of corporate tax revenue expectations, there is no justification for Hungary's 100 billion less revenue for the pampering of multi-company companies than it would otherwise require. And if we add that the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector could benefit from this mass of resources, then the attitude of the government will become clear. He did the same thing to commercial banks, by the way. He believed that he would hit this sector with a banking sector special tax, transaction tax, and so on. The reality is, however, that a very large part of the banking sector special tax has been passed on to the financial institutions concerned and that the transaction fee has been passed on in its entirety; in a self-claiming manner, the institutions concerned have said so. I have to tell you: the same deception can be seen in terms of attitude towards multi-enterprises. So I would be able to accept this account myself if the reasons for the problems I have mentioned are before us; both in terms of state assets and in terms of the tax system, these shortcomings would be eliminated and otherwise eliminated; and a vision, a concept of this material and of the materials of the last few years, which would be suitable for us to see where the Government of Hungary wants to go. If there were such a vision, I suppose I wouldn't wanna court him, but perhaps the best-prepared Secretary of State would share it with us during the debate. I am still counting on this, but what I see is that as the Orbán governments have always tried to win broad electoral masses with a vision, let this be the former vision of civil Hungary, which was then replaced by the much easier-to-apprehensive reduction vision, and as history progresses, they have always tried to win social groups with their easier to accommodate and distribute measures. Now, this material and the government's attitude have no vision of the future. It is not clear what kind of investment they have in mind for the future; it is not clear whether this increase in GDP is considered sustainable; it is not clear that in this context the performance of domestic companies is assessed by assessing what additional opportunities they have. We could therefore bring up a great many points of debate, but until these questions are answered, unfortunately, this material is unacceptable. [[10.40]] And I would like to ask you to treat the eulogies more modestly, and I would like to repeat only one piece of data, because while between 2010 and 17 in the Orbán era we were 17 percent higher at the level of economic development, the countries called the postsocialists average between 20 and 22 percent. Thus, the Hungarian increase is also lagging behind the increase in the surrounding countries during this period. I understand that the base was low, so there was room for improvement with even two figures of percentage points, but we can't say that in the middle of an emigration disaster, in the darkest hours of a demographic winter, there could be any eulogy in this House. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-17-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-17-9	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President of the Court of Auditors. [[Intercoms: Sound!]]
u2018-10-17-10	Is the card in place? [[Dr. János Harghitai: Yes!]] Please help me! They're bringing in the auxiliary mike right away. [[It's happening.]] Of course, the clock will be restored.
u2018-10-17-11	Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President of the Court of Auditors. I would only like to respond to my good fellow Member's speech in that I do not think that we should sing praises here, and I really do not. Okay. We just say that we are making progress, and in this progress, the 2017 accounts confirm us. It's hard to argue with that. If a journalist ever wanted to deal with this debate, which is happening here, this would be a great task, because what we are talking about with the high levels of the budget and analysing these numbers is probably often incomprehensible to voters. But it would be interesting to compare the speeches that our fellow Members and, obviously, I did when we adopted the budget in mid-2016 that we are discussing. Comical situations could be drawn in such a short film about what the opposition representatives came up with then, and see how this budget was achieved in 2017. That is what my colleague Lajos Szűcs referred to, which I said was showing that we are making progress. Obviously, it cannot in itself be difficult or difficult to assess the budget of a year. It's a budget flow. The budget outputs of the Orbán government can now be evaluated for a long time, since we have been on the government for a long time, and obviously we need to be evaluated. I continue to insist that, if the Orbán government is successful, the electorate has judged us to be so, and that is why we are re-elected, the government can be successful because it has restored budget management. When the opposition party, the people in front of me, was in power, there was nothing to say but that there was order in the budget and order in the economy. Never a single number was achieved at that time, never managed responsibly. The performance of the Orbán government can be carried out to see if it spends on good purposes, whether it has a social vision, but it is a comedy when the betterman challenges us about whether the Orbán government has a social vision. If we're strong at something, that's it. I often experience as a pro-government representative that we could take it back from these visions, and we could use more energy for everyday implementation, for the implementation of our visions, but the abstraction of visions, which my better fellow Member has led us here, is probably a very comic situation. Drawing such a material, once a journalist undertakes to do so, would also be a good task, because our constituents, who might be watching this debate, would realize that although we are talking about large numbers, in fact, when we judge the country's budget or budget management, we are talking about completely ordinary things; we are talking about everyday things that every family does in relation to their own annual budget and budget management. When you prepare for this closing debate, you obviously review the basic findings of the law, the great material of the State Audit Office that you put in front of us. Because it simplifies the point to show us. That's where I'm going to go to the speech again. My fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, is missing certain things that he believes this law does not adequately present. The Court's report clearly indicates that the Public Finance Act tells us what the implementing law should be about, the structure in which it should be brought to Parliament, the content elements to be presented and the logic of the compilation. Based on this, the State Audit Office will carry out your inspection and your evaluation on the basis of a law order, if you will. Based on this, he says what the President of the Court of Auditors did in his exposé. If my good-looking fellow Members are missing something in addition, then come up with the motion to amend the Public Finance Act so that they can have a bigger overview of what I think has worked clearly. But you can talk about that, by the way. Since the Hungarian budgetary management has taken place in a fair constitutional environment, and since the establishment of the Fundamental Law, the processes have changed. I was also skeptical as a pro-government representative in the fact that, because of the fact that the introduction of a fair, relatively detailed public financial chapter into the Fundamental Law, I refer here to the fact that our old constitution hardly contained any sentences in relation to public money matters, in itself, that this is a debt brake in order to mention only one thing, so that it can be observed and function in the daily reality. I've seen the practice of the past in the case of socialist governments. It didn't matter if there was anything written down or not written down, they just took credit and spent. That's what budget management was all about. But I must say, after all these years of experience, that the public financial chapter, the debt brake and other provisions can work in practice if there is a government that wants to manage responsibly. Because the basic pillar of responsible farming is that I only commit within the limits available and try to remain within the limits available. That's what every family does. The Hungarian families may even know the ten orders of the former Hungarian Postal Savings Bank. I might as well analyse this budget on this basis when I say that point 2 of this Ten Commandments was to take up a position. This government will abide by it, the previous governments have failed to comply. This is the responsible budgetary management: I farm and not just spend, not just taking advantage of the economic situation that was in the financial markets at the time, taking out loans without necks, and dividing this money with some kind of logic among the players in society. So he said with a live position in point 2 of the Ten Commandments of the Hungarian Royal Savings Bank. Work and find. says point 1. It is not true that the opposition cannot see the government's vision. What have we been saying for years? It's a work-based society. We had to eliminate the practice of condemning millions in Baranya, Orbánya, and elsewhere to keeping them at home with only a little help. We've involved them in the world of work. It's not the most wonderful thing to do in community service, but compared to what had to be done, it's a wonderful thing. This draft accounts also show that the number of workers was well over 4 million in 2017 and that the number of public workers was down by 38 thousand. Apparently, it's because they went to work. So point 1 of these Ten Commandments can work if the government takes the steps to help these people work. Work and find. The two go together. Perhaps the most important element of this draft discharge law is the ministerial exposé, which is what the President of the Court of Auditors said was the six-year wage agreement that the government concluded in 2016 with the actors with whom he could conclude this. Six years ahead! I couldn't dream of being here in Parliament as a member of a budget committee for 20 years to meet one of these once during socialist governments. Six years ahead of us, and look at this, it's working. Which meant reducing the burden on employers and raising the minimum wage, the minimum wage for skilled workers, and this already worked in practice in 2017. [[10.50]] Point 3 of these ten Commandments is to record your expenses and compare them with your income. I can come back here regularly. That's what the previous governments didn't do, but the current government will do because it manages responsibly. Save me some unexpected expenses. When planning a budget, we always design it with significant reserves. This is also an element of transparent and responsible farming. There are many criticisms of this practice from the other side, saying that we give the government great and great mobility in spending such money. The government has now accounted for what it has spent these funds on. In the expoze, it was said that the budget itself was amended once, in the spring of 2017, upwards. We did not mobilize because of the constraints, but because of the opportunities, and we spent on the goals that the Minister has set out here. And obviously, the government also had in its own hands the funds it could have provided for and spent a lot of socially beneficial purposes. Point 8 of these Ten Commandments: Love your home and seek to find a family home. Yes, it is in the Hungarian people's souls, we like to live in our own. In other parts of the world, I'm not sure that's true. I am referring again to my better fellow Member; it is a rental program. Once again, he likes to live in Hungarian family houses or apartments. It is not certain that the Hungarian practice is the right one, nor is it certain that the rental program should be opposed to this. But it's not true that there are no such programs. In my settlement in Bóly, to mention just one small town, such a program is still taking place. There were sources in the EU that if a settlement saw such an important purpose before it, it could build apartments for young people who would live in such a flat for two years and move on to their own family home or apartment. Think about your old days. says point 9 of this Ten Commandments of Savings. This old Ten Commandments evidently indicated that one is saving money and preparing for a time when he will no longer be active. There are programs like this. This is where I mention yesterday's debate. Yesterday, we removed just one of these, and we eliminated a saving opportunity when, by transforming the housing savings fund, the state aid was withdrawn from this system for the future. But why do we do it according to our logic? It's not because we want to spend that money on someone else. We continue to think that what the Fundamental Law tells us is that public money needs to be spent legally and effectively. We have debated the practicality of this method of saving so far, because we say again on the basis of the Fundamental Law that we need to manage the public money effectively, and if we use HUF 70 billion for a purpose that is not useful as we would expect, this HUF 70 billion should preferably be used in the same way, but in a different way. So, after yesterday's debate, I also tell us to re-establish the legislative environment in which public funds are working with similar techniques, but more effectively. I note here that not one day after yesterday's debate has passed, and these certain fund managers, the leader of the OTP, the leader of the Fundamenta, the leader of Erste, have already spoken wisely, all in a normal and calm manner. The Banking Federation is now declaring what it is proposing to the government. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] So it looks like these characters in the world know what they're doing, they're looking for a way out, they're not screaming. Here I refer back to what the opposition produced yesterday, it was simply a comedian. A day later, life was beyond the nonsense we had heard from you yesterday. Think about your old days. The Hungarian economy has made an extra income, it has been said that we have planned this budget for 3.1 percent and it has been achieved at 4.1 percent. Mihály Varga also gave the reason for this, according to him, the six-year wage agreement is very much involved in this plus 1 percent increase, and we obviously also know that in 2017, the European Union's resources were already operating in the Hungarian economy, so the smaller, modest growth in 2016 was accompanied by a major increase. Achieving a GDP growth by 4.1 percent compared to the 3.1 percent planned is a good upswing, I think, and it is also due to pensioners who are entitled to it under the law. We were able to pay a pension premium for the first time in 2017. We now know that we will be able to do this this year, and this premium payment and the Elisabeth voucher have a positive reception for the elderly population. I also want to manage the time of my fellow opposition Members, Professor Mellar told me that he must leave, and he is grateful if I do not speak up; it is okay that I have said this, and I do not want to talk about the time. I will return for one more thought, not to embellish the government's success, to point 10 of this Ten Commandments on Savings: patriotism. That's a very wise thought. Families who live by it live like patriots. The government, if it's an expectation that economy is patriotism, has been doing this for years. The main figures of the budget are always being met, the unbelievable debt you have released for this country is being reduced. I can argue, I refer to eximbank debates, but it is not worth talking about, the European regulators have decided on the issue, and the balance sheets of Eximbank should be included in the debt ratio. This debate has been settled for me, but the Hungarian government's debt is still falling, i.e. in 2017 the government fulfilled the requirements of the Fundamental Law by referring to the debt brake and fulfilling the former 10th point of the Hungarian Royal Postal Savings Bank, which said that saving is patriotism. The government has passed an "A" test here, unlike you, who have failed many times in terms of patriotism during budgetary debates, but this is history. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-10-17-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I was wondering if there was any point in commenting, since the government's performance is 110 percent, it has not made any mistakes in the past year, but in fact never. In Hungarian history, only opposition governments made mistakes when you were in government, planning a budget, everything was always perfect. I suppose it's perfect, as you said, that saving is patriotism. Then yesterday you failed in this patriotism, because you have taken away a saving opportunity, a popular savings opportunity from people, the savings fund has been set up, which affects millions of Hungarians in Hungary, without any real justification. So I see that one of the commandments failed, and you failed out of patriotism. But while you're talking about commandments here, let me also offer you a commandment from the Ten Commandments to the attention of the government, and the Eighth, don't steal. This will certainly help with budget planning and much more, and then perhaps the government will be able to do better. Congressman Harghitai spoke of the government's social vision, and he is very proud of it. Well, the problem is, he's got a social vision. You have a perverted social vision, perverted by helping people who are better off anyway. So you support the privileged few, their own friends and families, while the income gap in Hungary increases, poverty increases, and difficult Hungarian families live in a difficult situation. Let me recommend today's analysis of the outcome of this social vision. The EU Fundamental Rights Agency states the following on Hungary. This is about child poverty. It turns out that there are only three countries where children are at greater risk than Hungary, and this is Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. In Hungary, over 33 percent of children are at risk of poverty. [[11.00]] Let me read two sentences from this report to your social vision and success. It's not just the money that's missing. The authors of the report have found several points with which there is a problem in Hungary. For example, not all children have access to quality education, inadequate health care for children, especially for vulnerable people and people with disabilities. And the daily livelihood of poor large families is also extremely expensive. Neither are children who, for some reason, cannot live with their own families. The discrimination of disabled people and Roma children during the adoption process was highlighted as a specific problem. That's just two sentences from a report that you've just published for a fantastically successful budget, a fantastically successful social vision you've been talking about. They also talked about, now I don't know how many times in 2008 and 2009 the budget was like this and so on. Well, I don't wish for the country, I wish for you once, but unfortunately, this cannot be separated from each other to make such a cool budget in an economic crisis, where you can predict all numbers with the help of the glass ball. While I was last listening to Matolcsy's deputy say that inflation cannot be planned by the Hungarian National Bank, because they were able to do a little damage to foreign exchange lenders, so they talked about, for example, that they couldn't tell whether the exchange rate of the forint was rising or falling and how much they could do in the next period. By the way, adding to your social vision: the lawsuits of tens of thousands of people have gone on this, and their apartment and they are about to be evicted, because the Hungarian National Bank makes such resolutions for the Curia. Then, of course, the banks can cling to this and the regulatory inaccuracies that you consciously left a loophole in amending the law on this matter. In English, it is not possible to confuse a budget written in a crisis with a budget created under more favourable conditions in an international economic situation. But let's put this aside for a moment. Even Lajos Szűcs said a sentence that I would like to draw your attention to. You said that the opposition has turned to international organisations that the budget will not be respected. I do not know that any opposition party has turned to any international organisation. For example, I know that Viktor Orbán has routed Europe through our government so that the Hungarian government does not receive EU funds, because this government does not deserve to receive it. He's nodding to her. Fantastic! I don't know if you know, did you notice that the government is not receiving the funds, but Hungary is receiving the funds, the Hungarian people are receiving the funds. Of course, you'd rather have Lőrinc Mészáros, right, he's a Hungarian man, but... And Garanchi, the best entrepreneur of the year for flying the Prime Minister by plane, which is why he deserved the medal, that's for sure. In Hungarian, it was you who specifically wanted to damage Hungary during that period, not the opposition parties. Therefore, I too will make my speech short, because I see that Mr Mellar must go, on the one hand, as it turned out. [[Defiance.]] However, because there is such a huge gap between the opposition and the government's view of the budget, closing accounts or even social vision, and these opinions, as I see it, have been involved in many of these debates, peas thrown to the wall. So we can say here, perhaps to reassure ourselves, our souls, what our opinion is, what our position is, but it doesn't matter much. After all, as Daniel Z. Kárpát said, there was no support for any opposition motion, not even by chance. It can therefore be seen that the Government is not open to any positive comments. Let me say once again that self-gratification doesn't smell so bad if there's a little self-criticism involved. There's a very, very bad smell in this House, because you guys said there's no need to be self-critic about the budget here, and everything is fantastic. Despite the fact that the government has rewritten the budget lines on its own, sometimes it is impossible to recognize what has become of one of the numbers at the end. The other, which has been said many times, is perhaps worth highlighting specifically; I would like to highlight two of these points. One is that we are talking about this by adopting the budget for next year and we have not yet closed the previous one. You are used to justify this with stability and predictability. I don't think life justifies that in any way. I think it is right for us to know what happened to the budget figures in the previous year, perhaps some conclusions, lessons can be learned, and on the basis of these lessons the government plans the budget for the following year. I think that would seem a more logical order than to upset that order, I think, since 2012. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Secondly, transparency is often a criticism of this budget. This is not only criticised by us, but also by various international organisations, or the European Union itself has repeatedly said that this budget is not right in terms of transparency. And indeed, this has not been changed in the last year by the government, nor can it be said, in the context of next year's budget, that the budget has become much more transparent and meaningful. Not to mention how many times they get involved for political reasons, just like they did yesterday about the plowing of housing savings banks. All in all, I would just like to say that it is certain that the state is increasingly relocating to the economy, that friendly oligarchs are gaining control over the most important sectors. This is financed by taxpayers' money, while GDP has increased, but in proportion to its welfare expenditure the government spends less each year. This is definitely part of their social vision. He does not care about structural problems, but only the commitment and vocation of those working in him sustains domestic education, health and the social sphere. Meanwhile, the government spends on unnecessary prestige investments or stadiums with no viewers, but with more concrete. This must also be good for the Market, Garanchi and their various friends, but it certainly is not in the public interest, but rather a waste of public money. Not to mention that the taxes on the poor are the highest in Hungary today, the VAT rate. It seems that you really want to achieve this social perverted vision year after year, which means that Hungary, for Hungarian society, is becoming more and more fragmented. This will certainly limit Hungary's future success and effectiveness in the long term. That's why I think what you're doing isn't a mistake, it's a sin. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-17-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2018-10-17-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow lead speakers for their unselfish help, all of whom have spoken before me, all of whom have given me room. I seem to have become a separate budgetary point in today's debate. [[Defiance.]] I apologize for that. However, it also follows that I cannot speak too long, because if my fellow Members showed restraint, I should do the same. Well, as far as the substance is concerned, first of all, I would like to say a sentence or two about the macro-track. Indeed, a 4.1 percent economic growth is remarkable, especially given the fact that in the period of preparation only around 3 percent of this was seen. It is true, too, that the basic saying of economics is that forecasting is difficult, especially if it concerns the future. Although a physicist said so, Niels Bohr, economists are very fond of quoting it. Indeed, this was the result of a changed situation, a changed situation, resulting in a 4.1 percent increase. And this year, even more economic growth is likely to increase, up to 4.5 percent. Obviously, you need to see what's behind this high growth rate. If we look at the fact that the potential growth rate of the economy has not changed at the same time, it remains in the 1.5-2 per cent band, then we have to say that what happened here is that there was also an election budget in 2017-18. This election budget has heated up the economy, and today there is an overheated economy. In 2017, there was already such an overheated economy, as the actual growth rate is significantly higher than the potential growth rate. [[11.10]] What shows this in 2017 anyway? Now you can say, please, the general government deficit was 2.2 percent, what do you like to talk about? Well, the cash flow deficit, on the other hand, was 4.8 per cent, and obviously this 4.8 per cent deficit is a real deficit, even if it does not have to be accounted for because of the EU accounts, but this certainly contributes to overheating and overheating of the economy. So I think that this should not be forgotten; and also what Minister said about the use of EU funds. Forints 2930 billion were used in 2017, this was 7.6 percent of GDP, a very significant and very significant amount. It can also be seen very well that, if we look at the analysis, the total deficit, the financial and cash deficit, was 1833 billion, of which, by the way, 1447 was the vast majority of the deficit from the EU budget. In other words, the story is that the EU funds did not come in, but they were advanced by the budget, resulting in this discretion between 2.2 and 4.8 percent. The same will also continue in 2018, as it is the same in this year. The question is, of course, when, how, how big EU funds are coming in, because if they don't really come in, then a significant halt will certainly have to be expected, as the next year will require considerable restraint. Because there is one thing to acknowledge: since the beginning of 2010, this government has observed one thing very hard, the 3 percent criterion, and I am sure that it will also do so next year, but in the next year it is possible, and it is very likely that it will be a growth victim, because it will no longer have the state of grace it has had. Second point on the evolution of public debt: in the 2016 accounts, it was read that the debt was 72,3 percent in proportion to GDP. In comparison, according to the Stability Act 2017, 72.9 percent, i.e. decreased by increasing from 72,3 to 72.9. Of course, this would not have been possible, so the Stability Act recalculated 2016 and then raised to 74 percent, and then 72.9 is a real reduction compared to 74. Then, due to the transition to the EU methodology, as Eximbank's accounting had to be done, this was also done in a tricky way, so that it came from this surplus government debt not only in 2017 but also in 2016, by much higher in 2016 and consequently by 2016 it came to 75.9 per cent and 73.3 per cent in 2017. Thus, the reduction in public debt, i.e. the reduction in debt in proportion to GDP, has actually been achieved, but if someone looks at the figures, they see that this has, in turn, become a consequence that 2014 and 2015 were not very correct, since in 2014-2015 76.6 in both years, i.e. if we look back, this downward trend was not met in 2014-2015 and should have been met. Investments: it has been said here, many have said that investments have increased by 18.2 percent in a very welcome way. That is true, it is undoubtedly a pleasure, but if we look at what areas these are concentrated in, then the picture is no longer so beautiful. In education, health care and public administration, the building and construction investments had a very large increase, with growth rates of around 60 per cent, but manufacturing investments increased by only 7.3 per cent and technical activities by only 7.5 per cent. In other words, the vast majority of investments did not serve technical development and did not relate to the future development of a stock that could increase this 1.5-2 percent potential growth rate to 3-4 percent, but rather to those that are now speeding up the economy. This is also supported by the fact that the construction industry increased by around 30% in volume in 2017. This is a fantastic figure of 30 percent for economists, so we don't really want to believe it; it's such that it exists in arithmetic examples, but in reality it doesn't. This, on the other hand, means a little bit, and I think, not a little bit, but quite well enough, that there has been a construction bubble here, because, in the longer term, such a great dynamic cannot be maintained. So this construction bubble has to pop sooner or later. I don't know when this is going to happen, how and in what way, it can be done, of course, more delicately, with a soft landing to enhance the image disorder, but it is also possible that this will happen in a more dramatic way. And let's not forget, while construction is running 30 percent fast, industrial production grew by only 4.8 percent last year, the main creator of which was obviously foreign capital and export. In terms of inflation, it was not yet apparent in 2017 and it is not marked that the period of deflation is over, but let us not forget that this year is 2.4 percent compared to 0.4 percent inflation in the previous year, and prepares that this year is certain that it will be above 3 percent, and that it will be expected in the next year as well. It is very clear that fuels have risen by 7.2 percent, food by 2.8 percent, and services that have roughly restrained all of this because there are only 1.5 percent, perhaps because the methodology there is a little difficult to change or to move. The issue of employment: employment increased in 2017, employment continued to increase by 1.5 percent, and this has also been said several times that 4.4 million people are now employees. The number of public workers has decreased significantly, from 175 thousand to 44 thousand. This is very welcome, by the way, especially when compared to the period before 2010, when 3.8 million people were employed, 4,4 million is indeed a very large increase, and actually, if you look at it, it is a 15-16 percent increase. If this is compared to GDP growth of around 20 per cent, it should be noted, however, that productivity growth is very thin over a period of 7-8 years, because it is not more than 3-4 per cent. There are countries where productivity growth of 3-4 percent is achieved over a year, and not during two election periods, i.e. it seems that they have recruited a workforce in the domestic economy that has very low productivity, and workers with high productivity have gone abroad and have worked abroad and have been employed in public work, and therefore very low productivity. There is not much in the closing report on competitiveness, but on this occasion Minister has indicated the good news that according to the World Economic Forum, we have been able to improve the new competitiveness ranking from 60 to 48. I am very happy about this myself, although I am a little uncertain about the assessment of this, because he, too, rightly, referred to the fact that two thirds of the indicators have changed, and therefore it is not certain that they are comparable to the previous ones. If further improvements are to be made according to the new methodology, let us hope that this can indeed be the beginning of a more lasting trend. With regard to the sectoral analysis, when we look at what the whole spending looks like functionally, let me give you some bad news. [[11.20]] I have tried to prepare from the SAO's "Advisory" material, because you always learn, but I would not really recommend that you use, say, the chart or table on page 37. [[He's showing it to me.]] These various functions account for nominal GDPs of 16 and 17 which suggest that welfare functions have increased from 126 billion to 12 994 billion. Well, this is a rather wrong and harsh analysis, and this should not be done or communicated because they are not comparable, since the expenditure made in different periods can be interpreted as being based on different price lines. So, given the shares, it is clear that in 2016 52.2 percent of the total expenditure was spent on welfare functions, but in 2017 only 50.9. At the same time, it increased from 17.3 percent to 19.4 percent of the operating functions of the State instead of 16 percent and from 18 percent to 19.4 percent of the economic functions. So, unfortunately, a trend is taking place, and this is almost continuously after 2010, which is based on the fact that welfare functions are increasingly underweight and that public operating and economic functions are increasingly being spent. The international comparison shows that economic aid in Hungary is about one third higher than the EU average, while expenditure on education and health is one third lower. It follows that education and health are the great losers of recent years, which is also painful because I believe that long-term economic growth requires not only technical and technological development, which has also been lagging behind in recent years, but also high-quality human capital, which would require better and better education and health. Compared to this, there are fewer and fewer amounts. I think it's a very important element of all of this. When we look at the budget at the moment as a whole, then things are pretty much fine, but they are burdened with internal structural problems, which, by the way, anticipates that there will surely be very serious problems and problems in the future. But in general, governments do this, that in some way the problems are rolled in front of them, so that the future generation can solve them. The same happened before 2010 when debt was accumulated. Now the same thing happens when EU funds are burned and not used to build the future. I think it would take a lot of change here to really say that now it was an economic condition, an economic situation that is sustainable in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-17-16	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Mellar. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-17-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I am in the lucky position that, after Mr Mellar, after the macro approaches, we can address some of the issues, and this may be meaningful. First of all, however, I must address what we have heard from Minister, then from the President of the State Audit Office and also from Members. They all referred to the fact that a six-year wage agreement helped significantly, helping the country. I think, gentlemen, that this is either inaccurate or does not hold up. No six-year pay agreement. There is a six-year agreement within which there is a two-year wage agreement, which, by the way, will expire this year, and you need to redesign it now, where workers have a substantial wage claim, which, by the way, should or should be supported. On the other hand, on the other hand, in this agreement, you have taken a reduction in the clause on social contributions, and you are not complying with that. So this agreement, let's just say, simply doesn't work. There is another part of what has been said so far. This is the fact that the Minister has listed the investments that have been made, which have helped economic growth. We also know from a number of reports now that these investments have been made either in the development of roads, in industrial parks or in other areas, ladies and gentlemen, you have carried out completely irregular procurement procedures, after which you may not be financed by the European Union as a result of the announcements the other day, which basically contributed to talking about growth of more than 4 percent. If we take that out of him, where are we, anyway? Your performance in this regard is hardly meaningful without EU funds. So from this point of view, even forced expansion of construction capacity and the use of it, I believe that you can crash and pay for it. But let us move on to the processes that you have assessed in this way, and I suggest that you also take these into account, how worthwhile it is to take this seriously here, in the context of the accounts. Here are some of the items that you have said in the last hour that I would like to show you why this account is not credible, why it is unacceptable, even if you are very good at grading the data here. Let us start by saying that the budget itself is its design form, its way, the closing accounting in an international comparison, which is known to be only the medium in comparison with one hundred countries, but also the sufficient for the European Union. So in this respect, the way the budget is compiled, its presentation, its transparency does not reach the medium. I'll give you an example. There is, in front of the Secretary of State, the closing accounting law that we are talking about is printed in ten volumes. It's about 10,000 pages, maybe more than that. These ten thousand pages are either read by someone and assess the situation accordingly, or otherwise they do not allow him to be researched. They added a CD in which they copied the pages, so thank you very much, instead of doing the work and making it possible to compare it to the years before, after, the plans and how this happens. So this does not allow or create transparency in this form. The government also does not present any planned government debt-related holdings. This could, for example, show whether, in spring 2016, when the 2017 Finance Act was drawn up, the Ministry of Finance would have calculated that it would re-execute the settlement bonds or that this would just happen on its own, that EUR 1.8 billion of settlement bonds was issued. With all due respect, this settlement bond issue was not necessary to finance the deficit, it was not necessary to renew the outstanding debt, while in 2017 you guys took it to the top and did this. This was not necessary to replace the outstanding debt in foreign currency or HUF. There was no need to increase the level of foreign reserves. The liquidity of the single treasury account was not required to be maintained. So we could, and I'm not talking about how you should have done it, we should tell the Committee on Budgets exactly what the settlement policy means, and the details of what I've just done here are not reported, and there's the Ministry of Finance, the heads of government debt management, who don't show up. [[11.30]] This is also included in this account, which you will not otherwise do. I can say again that your credibility is being questioned. There is almost a complete lack of non-financial metrics for resources and performance used. This is not a coincidence, of course, because the Hungarian budget system generally lacks such information, but it would be very relevant, for example, that when the Minister of Innovation sloppyly states that the Institute of Economics of the Academy is supposed to be terminated because of its low efficiency, he said on the basis of which he said, because, in the budget, the information about spending this money was intended, and that you either hide it or you do not know it, but by the way, you said that it was not effective, as you said yesterday in relation to the housing savings banks, that it was not effective and that it was abolished from Monday to Tuesday. There is a lack of presentation of funds outside the budget. What do you think? The operation of the so-called separate funds presented in the context of the accounts is not covered by the Ministry in the operation of other chapters and therefore cannot be considered as an out-of-budget state. What am I thinking, Mr. Secretary? I think that we should add it from the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, otherwise this is done under a separate law, or there is, for example, the funds of the foundations in favour of the Hungarian National Bank, which, by judicial decision, is specifically public money, and you should have reported it here, but you do not. That also calls into question the credibility I was just talking about. My fellow Member has said that they are farming or spending. It seems to me that they're just spending money, and I'll give you a specific example. We have prepared a comparison that compares the 2016 closing accounts, the 2017 Act, the 2017 closing accounts and the 2018 planning numbers; we now have 2017 as appropriate. In this list, in these ten thousand pages, you can find the four lines, which are also about investment in the Lakitelek People's College; this is a series of investments and other grants. In the design, HUF 5.9 billion was earmarked for this investment, and in the end, 13 billion HUF 381 million was spent on the amendment. Gentlemen, what kind of planning is this? You're just spending money when you're available, when you're sucked in, bitten by taxpayers, and then that's what you're doing. How could they have done it? They are doing this because, in essence, they have driven spending out of Parliament's control, and the way that I am now going to explore in some thoughts is that you, my dear fellow members of Parliament, have resigned and let this happen in a way that is out of control. So, my dear fellow Member, you are not farming, you are spending, and it works. [[Dr. János Harghitai: What did you do?]] The government has become more powerful in this process than in the people's representation, and I think that this is a huge problem, which can lead to the fact that in the threatening international situation in which more and more people are talking about an economic crisis that may occur, such behaviour puts Hungary at risk, and we also see absolute signs of it. Parliament's budgetary rights have been greatly violated in this process. In order to mention one of these, the stocks of budget residues have grown so much in recent years that the sustainability of the budget and the regulation of the flow of public funds at micro level are extremely threatened at aggregate level. What kind of data, facts? Between 2003 and 2013, my fellow Member, I would also like to answer your question about what we did with the end-of-the-year residual stock of 2 to 2.5 percent of GDP, i.e. at the end of practically every year, the same amount that was used at the beginning of the year from the previous year's remnant, and the large budget relaxation and adjustments did not cause this to be more than half-percent. However, from 2014 onwards, this stock is rapidly piling up, and even the committed portion reaches at least 7 percent of GDP by the end of 2017. Gentlemen, what kind of farming is this? ! What responsibility is this in front of Parliament? What kind of planning is this when you do this? The remains that can be transferred to the following year and I will also give a very concrete example that what they are doing is not even numerically correct, even if they can only be created in institutional and chapterly managed appropriations, not in central appropriations and funds. This also means that, in practice, only appropriations whose development is the responsibility of the government are not dependent on macroeconomic, demographic or other factors that cannot be controlled by the government, otherwise to be controlled. In some cases, there is, of course, a reason for the remains, because there may be bad weather or some kind of slip, but this has to be balanced on the average of a long time, as was the case between 2003 and 2013. Of course, the problem is worrying not only for macro-financial stability but also for the efficient use of public funds. What we can see is that, while Parliament decided unnecessarily early in spring 2016, because we are talking about the 2017 budget of allowing HUF 527 billion in higher education, it did not even know that the fact of 2016 would otherwise be HUF 516 billion, and that it would provide central support for HUF 204 billion. In reality, the central support was HUF 245 billion, and the expenditure was nearly HUF 580 billion, while even the residual stock increased by more than HUF 50 billion, i.e. the residual stock increased by HUF 150 billion before last year, with the possibility of significantly greater items than Parliament's decision on changes in the debate on the budget law. Gentlemen, this is what the government is doing, which is why I say that Parliament has been withdrawn from this point of view, even from planning, but definitely from control. It's an illusion of control, and you're contributing to it. I don't know if you're suckers or accomplices in this, but I'm afraid that sometimes you have to talk about the latter, and that's what you're contributing to. The government controls the events, and it will certainly not happen otherwise, and it will have to be called to the Secretary of State, and then the situation will change. This method, which you are using, is certainly of public concern, but it also makes it questionable whether it will be possible to operate under state control, when you will not be pouring EU funds here, but you will otherwise have to expect a cost-effective farm. On the basis of an appropriate government analysis and action proposal, Parliament should speak openly about how to restore the normal mode of operation, i.e. to prevent further growth in this direction, as I have just said, and it is not a good answer to that, when European money falls back, which, by the way, has a serious chance this year, as they have now received a warning in writing that, as EU funds are being used, it is irregular, worrying, and more accounts have not been delivered recently. [[11.40]] In the meantime, how to restore Parliament's budgetary rights, how to repair your sailboat with too loose a rope, in some way, is up to the pro-government representatives. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, you guys, get this under control. I will also say other specific cases, or at least say one thing, that there is a numerical problem with what has been presented, because among the annexes to the justification for closing accounts, the government presents the stocks of residues per appropriation. The closing stock in 2016 was HUF 211 billion, while the remains were HUF 1956 billion in the opening stock of 17th. Which one is it now? Based on the instructions for filling in the treasury accounts on which the table is based, the opening staff of that year should be the same as the closing staff of the previous year. That's not the case, so it's the wrong thing to say. I could repeat what I said in the budget: this closing act is unacceptable. The missing remains, which I have just mentioned, do not give any further information about this, either, in the corresponding chapter volume of the 2016 accounts. Therefore, questions arise about the residual contents of HUF 250 billion, with whom the commitments were made when they decided to do so. Have these amounts been paid to the beneficiaries of the remaining commitments and implemented the programmes which could be presumed to be behind them? Why didn't you report a loss in the remainder of the successor institution, if and if it belonged to an institution, if it could be linked to it? Since this is the case, I believe that what you have submitted in the framework of the discharge law, in this form, as I have said, on the one hand, is numerically incorrect, and secondly, the reference you have made so far is not credible, and, on the third, this policy alone cannot be accepted, so I do not recommend, but it must be rejected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from DK and the independents.]]
u2018-10-17-18	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-10-17-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The final figures for the 2017 budget differ significantly from the budget initially adopted or planned. The reason for this is that if we want to highlight the point that the government has made an election budget on the way from the budget, increasing the deficit by HUF 667 billion, which represents 1.7 percent of GDP and has increased the resources of some areas. The source for increasing the deficit was an increase in the lack of EU funds. The government was simply pre-spending all the money already spent at a forced pace, without its revenue coming in. We are drinking this in 2018, when this process has turned around, and the budget deficit has, for that very reason, swelled enormously. It is a particular difficulty when negotiating this bill that the original budget was adopted by Parliament in the spring of 16 two and a half years ago. There is indeed a question of whether, in such a perspective, it makes any sense to negotiate the closing report, since so many criticisms have been given by my fellow Members, and let us be honest, and there will be no consequences. Before going into the details, let's look at what the original budget for the year 17 included and what the changes were compared to. As we said at the time, the 2017 budget was about continuing a fundamentally flawed economic and social policy, and let us add that this social policy has not changed since then. I think this is what this country's tragedy is all about, just as yesterday, just to say something topical for the removal of the duped housing funds in a day and a half, so this social policy is not in this country's interest. That's what your budget describes practically year after year. This budget was all about trying to make the country a assembly plant for foreign multi-businesses, and the biggest problem is that small and medium-sized enterprises, family businesses and micro-enterprises are in a very step-by-step position in your policy, and I think that this would really be the sector that could be a truly driving sector in Hungary, which could keep our young people at home. But you think of the budget in order only as a financial act, and the budget is all about the social policy behind it. The result of the misguided economic policy is that the Hungarian economy was still unable to stand on its own feet, the wages kept low... and I know that the answer is now how much wages are increasing, but my claim is that this increase in wages is light-years away from what it should be, is light-years away from what is necessary and sufficient. But if we look at the same in international comparison in the neighbouring countries, we can still see that we are very far behind. This increase in wages is, in fact, an increase in wages imposed by labour shortages, and I think that this economy could be the engine of good economic policy, for example, by boosting internal demand. On the other hand, that's not what's happening. They bring in multi-company companies, give them subsidies all over the place, and otherwise these agreements themselves cannot be seen by mortal men in the vast majority of cases. With this, the government is artificially trying to keep economic growth alive, which, by the way, can be very effective for a period of time, but is not sustainable, so it is not in this nation's interest. Even in the 2017 budget, there was a need for a large-scale wage increase, especially in the public sector, but also for reducing taxes and contributions to work. In this competition, we are still one of the highest European leaders, and I think that this is a very big problem, and of course I must add again that, first and foremost, those who are small businesses, micro-enterprises, self-employed people. I think there should have been an answer, and, obviously, we should have had a multi-key tax. Otherwise, a well-drawn multi-key tax would have had an internal demand-enhancing effect, which is a very large deficiency of the current Hungarian economic structure, because a well-defined, well-conceived multi-key tax supports small earners, and a well-conceived multi-key tax through support for small earners, as they are forced to spend it because they need it on bread, strengthens internal demand. By this method, with a single-key tax, you represent practically the top 10 percent of the economy, where it virtually goes on private flights, vacations, and so on. Instead of being a useful measure for all, the government would like to maintain one-off and ingenious subsidies and increases in resources in order to maintain the fief system it has built up. In practice, they have invented a system where the budget also serves to put in a position in the Hungarian economy economic operators who are loyal to you out of fear and financial interest and who promote your ideology. I think again, like I just said, it's not sustainable. [[11.50]] A current example, true, not from 2017, is 2018: this week you have abolished the entire system of housing savings banks along exactly the same ideology, only because you were virtually a competitor of the Rogán housing lotto, and I think that this type of social and economic policy is the reason why this closure is unacceptable or your policy is unacceptable. The civil servant wage increase has been frozen for nine years, and I think you are still indebted to civil servants on this issue. Again, it's just that they want to keep wages to a level that doesn't necessarily mean that they don't want their mates' wages to starve, but they don't want to live a lot of normal lives, while György Matolcsy's salary rises 2.5 times to 5 million forints. This is the government's wage policy. The general social wage increase and the public employee wage increase would have been covered, but Fidesz also crowded its budget in 2017 with completely unnecessary, urising expenditures that enrich its own lunar yard. Just to give you a few examples: the billions spent on the government moving to Castle, the Liget project or the increase in sports and tao discounts are worth thinking about here. I think that spending these resources in an efficient and beneficial way for society would have been in the interests of this country. There has been no increase in education resources in the 2017 draft budget, even though a significant wage increase, which is significantly higher than what you have initiated, has been needed since then and to reduce the workload. It's amazing that the government wants the country to be the 21st. The winner of this century is not to invest in education, because with the HUF 200 billion proposed by the LMP to increase in the 2017 budget amendment, it could have reached the level of GDP in 2010, but you of course rejected it. However, it would be necessary to provide education with resources significantly above the 2010 level, in proportion to GDP, because it is in the interest of the nation's future. It is possible to establish a system in which everyone can get as far as they want, but you do not believe in this educational system. This is what the ideas that are now emerging from the cover by 2018 are about, and this is what the idea is that you are reducing the number of higher education places financed by the state, and that, by the way, you are trying to make quality higher education available by an elite which, by the way, only the larger part of society will not be able to afford, reach; and I am not afraid that your children will belong to the group that will not achieve this. I am sure that it will not be the families of Members of Parliament who suffer this, but the vast majority of society. Health care has also suffered a huge lack of resources in 2017 and has been struggling ever since. The recent resignations and scandals also indicate that the under-financing situation in healthcare today is quite amazing both at systemic level and at funding level. I think and, unfortunately, the 2019 budget has not given a satisfactory response to this either, unless the Hungarian government, the Hungarian government at any time, has a response to this, then there will be a social tragedy and a collapse that you may not even have an idea of today. What I still need to talk about is that the budget, or its fulfilment in this form, is unacceptable because of the social policy contradictions I have been talking about so far, and I think that it would also be very good for your budgetary policy, if, sometimes, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, don't give it to me, God, Prime Minister or you, my fellow Members, would go out among the people; they would go out in a jeans and a T-shirt and talk to people, they would go to hospital health care or look at the circumstances of St. Stephen's Hospital, and I think that if you look at them, then the priority that hasn't appeared in your budget today and in recent years may appear. So for my part, and on behalf of the LMP, I'm saying that unfortunately this closure is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[A rare round of applause in the ranks of DK and independent representatives.]]
u2018-10-17-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2018-10-17-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Several colleagues and myself have said in the SAO's debate that it would be good to have a purely professional debate during such debates, but unfortunately, we have to see that the government is overwhelming the initiative of professional debates a great deal when it happens on the part of the opposition. The Minister said in the expoze a few budget lines to justify the success of both economic strategy planning and fiscal policy, but I have collected some items for you that have caused hundreds of billions of HUF damage not only to Hungarian taxpayers but also to all Hungarian citizens, and I think they have a unique responsibility in this. I'd like to list a few of these. As a first point, I could mention Viktor Orbán's move to Castle, which cost taxpayers HUF 49.4 billion, stadiums cost HUF 77.7 billion, while public media cost HUF 70.1 billion. The programme of modern cities would have been the only forward-looking initiative of the items I have now listed, which could have been a step forward, but we have seen that the operation of this programme has been without transparency on the one hand, and that it has been best for the recovery of local communities on the other hand, so it has not served development. These four items took approximately 350 billion forints. We did not see exactly what these funds had gone to, did not serve social development, but served the welfare of a narrow layer and corruption. I would like to say a few words about the distribution at the end of December 2017, because you are always proud that you are planning a large budget reserve, but you have been using the possibility for years now to distribute hundreds of billions of taxpayers in practically your own jurisdiction. Among these items, we also find targets that do not serve social development and on which the government prefers to spend money. For example, churches, which could have enjoyed 80 billion forints, but the pro-Birkegyháza stadiumists also received nearly 10 billion forints at the end of December of last year. The Hungarian tax forints spent across the border still received HUF 30 billion from the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which has already been shown in its process that its operation is not transparent, and unfortunately the government has not been able to carry out its task of at least responding to the concerns raised. As a third point, I would like to talk about the amounts spent on immigration, because according to the 2017 plans, they wanted to spend only HUF 100 million to manage immigration, but in contrast, we find that HUF 155.1 billion was spent on this, and this happened two years earlier, so in 2015 391 thousand people tried to cross the Hungarian border, or even crossed the Hungarian border, but the amount we spent on immigration in 2017 was dwarfed. Last year, in contrast, only 1045 people tried to get into the border that had already been closed, which means that the number of immigrants has fallen by 99.7 percent, but you have doubled and half the previous budget allocation for managing immigration, which, simply from the outside, is inexplicable or at least difficult to justify. [[12.00]] I look at the Secretary of State, and I thank him for listing in detail what this very large budget envelope has gone to in the previous budget year. I would like to mention as the fourth issue that the European Commission checked the functioning of the Public Procurement Supervisory Department at the Prime Minister's Office in 2017. 29 procurement procedures have been examined here and serious deficiencies were identified in 25 of these 29 cases; six of which are systemic, and if they cannot be properly corrected by the Hungarian Government or adequately addressed by the Commission, they may impose a flat-rate reduction of up to 10 percent on the country. This could cause HUF 450 billion damage to Hungarian society if the worst scenario is expected. This is more than 1 percent of GDP. I think that it would be worth taking them seriously, because these problems were already visible last year, and it seems very much that they cannot take seriously the warning signs in the Prime Minister's Office that could even result in the withdrawal of EU aid. As a last subject, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why the government does not accept the EU recommendation proposing a structural adjustment of 1 per cent of GDP. Here's the reason. In 2016, the structural deficit was still 1.8 per cent of GDP, representing 3.1 per cent by 2017, which is significantly above the medium-term objective. This is, to be exact, 1.6 percentage points more, i.e. more than double the target envisaged. My question is why, on the one hand, the structural deficit of 2017 has slipped so badly, why didn't you think that economic growth, which, by the way, was better than the plans or estimates... and why didn't you try to correct it from this amount if you said it was a successful budget. And I have a systemic question to ask the Secretary of State that, in principle, I think that EU membership means belonging to both a fiscal and a monetary political community. These recommendations and close cooperation with the Union, whether in terms of economic strategy planning or budgetary planning, are very important for us to work together with our fellow Western Europeans, and my question is why, since these could significantly improve social development, economic growth and competitiveness, we cannot follow them. Because I understand that the Hungarian government has many issues with Western European partners, which, by the way, I do not usually agree with, but basically it is that it wants to provide fiscal political assistance or to give advice to a Member State in the European Union that we can move forward with ourselves, and it is not understandable why we cannot follow them. To conclude, I would like to say that today's figures are welcome that, based on the latest survey of the World Economic Forum, we have made progress from 60th to 48th, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this still means that 90 percent of the free world is in front of us in terms of our competitiveness indicators. It also means that we also have significant shortcomings at regional level in terms of our competitiveness indicators, in terms of our social mobility, and that we will not be able to catch up with those partners in Western Europe who, by the way, are giving us all the help we need, both financially and in a different sense, so that we can improve ourselves. I'll thank you for answering my questions. Thank you for listening.
u2018-10-17-22	Thank you, Congresswoman Anett. Dear Parliament, This is the 15-minute time frame for the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian.
u2018-10-17-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself. As the spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is the T/1671. XC 2016 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 The draft law implementing Law was put on the agenda and discussed at its meeting on 9 October 2018. The committee decided at the meeting to hold a detailed debate on the whole of the bill without any abstention or opposition. As a preliminary point, I would like to recall that the 2016 XC on Hungary's 2017 central budget. on the 18th day of May 2016 of the Hungarian Committee of Nationalities for a legislative proposal, the House Rules 45. Article 5 of the Act provides for an amendment by the Commission which closes a detailed debate. By clarifying the need for a clearer and practical amendment of the main support and settlement systems for national minority self-governments, the amendments tabled by the committee were accepted by the Parliament and thus included the XC of 2016 on Hungary's central budget for 2017. Law. It can be concluded that the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary could agree with the factions and the government on its own right and, most importantly, according to its own needs. As a positive measure, the Parliament took the Committee's opinion into account when drawing up the budget, in the political decision on the total amount of appropriations. The priorities, the size and the internal proportions of the nationalities living in Hungary could decide and divide the priorities of each area of nationality. I would like to stress that the 2016 XC on Hungary's 2017 central budget. Laws have also been prepared and implemented in accordance with the legislation. In recent years, nationalities in Hungary have become beneficiaries of a significant increase in resources. Thank you to the Government of Hungary for providing nationalities with the resources necessary for their operation. Thank you further to the Parliament for supporting the resources submitted by the nationalities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The provision of the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of the ethnic institutions contributes to the survival of the Hungarian nationalities in Hungary. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes to adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание.
u2018-10-17-24	Thank you, Congressman. There's no two-minute application. I give the floor to Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State, who would like to take the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-17-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Ladies and Gentlemen, I considered it important to be able to speak at the beginning of the debate about the implementation of the 2017 budget, because, in my view, it is possible to conclude on the whole, and I am pleased that the comments did not call into question that the macroeconomic objectives set by the Honourable Parliament for 2017 and those defining everyday life have been met. We could say this about the macroeconomic targets, because at the end of the 2016 spring session when the budget was adopted, we assumed an increase of 3.1 per cent, instead it became 4.1 per cent. We were able to maintain the stability of public finances, reduce public debt, increase the number of employees and substantially increase the level of real wages. In addition to macroeconomic figures, I am going through the processes that affect everyday life, because if more people can work and real wages are increasing, then I think that the standard of living is also increasing. [[12.10]] After this fundamental conclusion, allow me to respond to some specific points raised in the debate. I can agree with Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech that it is not appropriate to absolute GDP. That is why we are talking about what has happened in addition to GDP developments in other macroeconomic and standard of living processes. And when we compare Hungarian growth data with data from other countries or with data from Hungary earlier, I agree that we should look at other indicators in addition to GDP. Let me mention here that we remember Hungarian economic growth, which was not accompanied by an increase in the number of people employed, on the contrary, the number of people employed has decreased. What is the value of growth, especially in the longer term, not coupled with an increase in employment and real wages? That is why it is important to talk about the other macroeconomic figures in addition to last year's growth figures. And I could also say that, yes, Hungarian growth figures can be compared with other Central and Eastern European countries, but let us also look at the other indicators of these countries. Congressman mentioned Romania. Let's see, he's in Romania with a twin defiance. We all know that economic growth, coupled with twin deficit, is unsustainable, and that the consequences will be borne by the country and the inhabitants of that country. Unfortunately, we all know what that means. And it also matters that when you look at their growth data, you take into account the dynamics, what changes are made. Undoubtedly, after the economic crisis, the growth figures of the Hungarian economy fell short of the data of the three Visegrád countries or many Central and Eastern European countries. The burden we were carrying was different. As a percentage of GDP, we had to finance a percentage point more on public debt than, say, the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Poland. We must not forget that during the economic crisis the Polish economy did not fall, while in Hungary it was one of the biggest downturns. We cannot forget that the activity rate and employment rate in these countries were much higher than in Hungary. That is why I propose that we look at the figures seen since the turn of growth in 2013, and we will see that the expansion of the Hungarian economy has in many cases exceeded the economic growth figures of the other countries mentioned as examples in Central and Eastern Europe. As regards wage increases: net real wages increased by more than 10 percent. I do not think that this is solely due to normal market processes. I agree with the statement that the economic activity seen in Europe, normal market processes, have also led to wage increases, but it is also necessary to see that the six-year wage agreement has created a wage increase opportunity for companies to provide part of the cost, a significant part of the cost, with tax reductions, under the Tripartite Agreement, to the government and the budget. I believe that the government's steps have contributed to the fact that the wage increase in Hungary in 2017 was much higher than we assumed when the budget was adopted, since the Tripartite Agreement took place in November 2016 and before that, the budget was adopted. But this wage agreement was signed by the government to respect the direction of the budget adopted by Parliament. Finally, it was confirmed that the wage agreement, by increasing wages, by increasing internal consumption, represents additional revenue for the budget, and that Parliament was able to amend last year's budget for 2017 by maintaining the basic values of the budget initially adopted, and by financing additional revenue, it was possible to carry out expenditure. As regards the debt ratio, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that there was a minimum cosmetic reduction. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] Allow me, Mr President, to say that the reduction of 2.6 percentage points of GDP in the debt ratio under the EU methodology is not minimal and not a reduction at the level of cosmetics. Let us look out for Europe, and it is also worth seeing that after the economic crisis already mentioned, the Hungarian debt ratio was about 10 percentage points higher than the average debt ratio of the European Union, and now the situation is practically reversed. The Hungarian debt ratio is no less than the average of the European Union by 10 percentage points, but we are close to this level. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Only the interest burden, Mr. Secretary.]] With regard to the interest burden: yes, there is still a significant interest burden. And if we compare Hungary with, say, the Visegrád countries, then we can see that, yes, despite a substantial reduction in the debt ratio, the Hungarian debt ratio is still higher than the rate of Slovak, Polish, Czech or Baltic countries. It's a burden we carry together. Thank God, I can tell you that, thanks to government action, the disciplined farming that has been done so far, the debt financing cost is much smaller today, as it was before. There's a lot of stock, but the level of interest that we have to finance after debt is low. We can see the latest data. In addition to reducing the foreign exchange debt ratio, Hungary still has foreign exchange debt, there are new foreign exchange issues. The latest figure is that the seven-year foreign exchange bond was sold historically at a low interest rate level because the debt ratio is still high in the Visegrád comparison, but investors see the government's commitment, they see the basic law frameworks that affect this debt ratio to decrease year after year. As regards the relationship between SMEs and multi-company companies and the attitude of the government, words have been said that the government is being nice to multi-company companies and does not take SMEs seriously, and Mr Csárdi also referred to this. I propose that we look at the 2017 discharge proposal before this House. This shows how many of the new tax types created for SMEs after 2010 have been chosen. And we can also see that in 2017, for example, the so-called kata option increased from HUF 6 million in revenue to HUF 12 million. The number of users since the introduction is now more than 4.5 times higher. Or let's see what happened at the so-called kivány: in 2017 the tax rate dropped from 16 percent to 14 percent. A major part of the EU's support, which has often been mentioned, is for business development purposes, including the financing of SMEs. I do not see, therefore, that the government considers SMEs to be stepchildren. Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát missed the wealth report. I have to say here basically that, following the provisions of the Public Finance Act, the government reports on the management of 2017 for a given year. And the state assets contain a stock figure. They are presented in separate accounts and in separate documents by the government. The wealth inventory is well-known, and the wealth inventory is public, but of course the government reports changes in the year 2017 affecting the state's assets in the context of the closing accounts, as the government presents the expenditure on state assets and the revenue from the state's assets in a detailed and detailed manner. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that from the thousands of pages mentioned, only a description of the chapter containing public property expenditure and the chapter containing state wealth revenue can be found from page 4895 to page 4937. Mr Attila Mesterházy, criticizing the government's overall economic policy, said that the differences within society are increasing and that the poor are in an increasingly difficult situation. I believe that the fact numbers, the fact numbers of the HCSO or the documents of the 2017 accounts prove the exact opposite. The six-year wage agreement included a 15% increase in the minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum wage or a minimum wage for skilled workers, as of 1 January 2017. What if it is not a measure that leads to a faster catch-up or increase in earnings for lower earners? And in general, let's look at how the incomes of minimum wage workers have changed since 2010, let's say. Minimum wage earners who do not have children can increase their net earnings by 52.3% between 2010 and 2018. 52.3 percent! This increases in proportion to the number of children. Minimum wage earners with three or more children have a net income increase of 122.8 percent. Correct inflation, we are seeing an extremely high real wage increase. The news that income differences between the lower and the upper decylis have been seen recently has shown a decline in recent years. I stress: they did not grow, they decreased. [[12.20]] Therefore, unfortunately, I must say that the findings that Mr Attila Mesterházy has made in this regard are factually wrong. He also mentioned education, health and pension expenses. I have to say again factually that the funding of these areas increased in 2017. You mentioned child poverty. If we look at all the indicators that determine child poverty, we see that they have changed in a positive direction, and the central budget, for example, has added its share to this, by increasing the financing of children's meals. Congressman Antal Csárdi said that the 2017 budget was an election budget, and Mr Tamás Mellár used the same phrase. Allow me to argue in this respect that Hungarian fiscal policy was known earlier as the deficit in electoral years. The eloquence of this was the last year certified by the closing accounts, 2014. I think that even if we look at the year 2018, the various analytical organisations will see that the 2.4 percent deficit target is realistic. The 2017 budget cannot be called an election budget from this aspect either, as the deficit-to-GDP ratio has been met by 2.2 percent. It is true that Mr Tamás Mellár and Mr Antal Csárdi also drew attention to the greater extent of the cash flow deficit, but we can factually say that the greater cash flow deficit is due to the advance on EU funds. The government did not spend on other purposes, not beyond the limits set by the Parliament, but ahead of the European Union's resources, resulting in a larger cash deficit, which had no influence on the balance according to the EU methodology. Several people have mentioned the extent to which EU funds are used behind the impressive growth figures for 2017. Yes, making meaningful use of EU funds by a government will push the growth of the economy. However, the 2016 Hungarian growth figure shows that the Hungarian economy was able to expand during the period when the number of EU funds used fell. If it were true that the growth was driven exclusively by EU funds, we should have seen a decline in 2016. And if the narrative is true that EU funds alone determine growth, I often mention that Greece, Spain or Portugal would soar. But that's not the case. And vice versa, countries that contribute to the EU budget should see an economic downturn, but that is not the case. Congressman Tamás Mellár said that the debt ratio has managed to achieve a reduction in some tricky way. Again, I have to say that whether we are looking at the debt ratio under the Stability Act, whether we are looking at the debt ratio under the EU methodology, either without Exim or without Exim, the debt ratio has certainly decreased. The change in the methodology of the statistical body of the Union makes it mandatory not to make changes to the time series mandatory for the whole time series. So the government has no room for manoeuvre in saying that due to the Exim classification only changes the 2017 data, but not the data of 2016 or the previous years. He won't do that. Mr Tamás Mellar mentioned the area of investment. I am pleased that investments in all areas increased in 2017. I agree with Mr President, the fundamental economic policy objective is to make new investments in areas where added value is greater. This is what economic policy changes are about, in addition to job creation, to an increasing extent, productivity, higher added value, will focus, if you like, on the larger domestic value chain, and R &amp; D and innovation will thus focus on investment in intensive areas. Congressman Antal Csárdi said that the public service wage increase has not been achieved in nine years. I have to say that, for example, health and education workers, who also had a wage increase in 2017, are civil servants. If you were thinking of the public sector in a broad sense, I can tell you that around 700 thousand people are employed by the budgetary bodies, and for these 700 thousand people, there have been wage increases up to around 550 thousand people in 2017. There is no doubt that there are public sector workers, such as government officials, who did not have wage increases, but the 2019 Budget Act also includes wage increases for them, i.e. wage increases in many areas of the public sector in line with the pace of economic growth. Member Csárdi and others said that the government did not increase education expenditure in 2017. Once again, I have to say that the closing bill is factually disproved. Education expenditure increased by HUF 170 billion from 2016 to 2017. This represents a HUF 110 billion increase in healthcare from 2016 to 2017, and growth has not only been achieved nominally, but also in real understanding. Any finding that 2017 accounts show a fall in expenditure in these areas or in welfare areas does not correspond to reality. As to the comments made by Member László Varju, I am once again obliged to deny some serious statements in fact. Congressman said that the part of the six-year wage agreement on the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax is not respected by the government. I'm gonna have to prove that factually. This agreement states that the rate of social contribution tax will be reduced in 2017 and 2018 respectively, and that the key reduction will then be achieved in line with real wage growth in the competitive sector. In this spirit, the 2019 budget has already been submitted by the government and accepted by the Parliament by counting on a 2 percentage point key reduction. The date of the key reduction depends on the real wage growth in the competitive sector under the agreement. As regards the researchability of data: Mr President, you said that data can be accessed electronically in the wrong format. I recommend a visit to the website of the Hungarian Treasury, where the data of public finances can be analyzed for decades. Congressman said that the government is not reporting on the sovereign debt stock. In fact, it contains data on the sovereign debt stock, both in terms of currency composition and in terms of other breakdowns. From page 617 of the bill tabled, I propose that you look at these. As regards the organisational and structural content of the accounts: I can refer to President Domokos, who said that in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the government prepared the accounts in the same structure as the budget was accepted by Parliament. If we deviate from this and talked about other non-public bodies, we would violate the Public Finance Act. All public expenditure and revenue in the accounts were reported by the government. And the fact that some investments, such as investment in Lakitelek, have received more resources than the initial allocation, let us be glad. During the year, we were able to provide additional resources for more investment by redeploying reserves while keeping the deficit target. And as for the remnant here, I think that perhaps it concerns the question which the Honourable Parliament did not know in detail, so there was no measure in which, from the Ministry of Finance, whether I or anyone had called over to other wallets to hold back the spending, to increase the remains. Mr President, the amendment of the budget and the additional expenditure made possible by the government at the end of the year indicate that the performance of the economy did not allow for a reduction in expenditure, but rather an increase, in addition to the deficit target and the reduction of debt, as appropriate. With regard to Mrs Bősz Anett's comments, I can say again in the case of financial insurance in December that we should be glad that the government was in this position. The source insurance was made within the limits defined by the Parliament, in any case by a public government decision, which is accessible to the public. And if more people are talking about the importance of education, it is also important to note that a large part of the ecclesiastical expenditure mentioned by the congresswoman has financed religious educational purposes: nursery, kindergarten and school building. [[12.30]] Support for Hungarians across the border. In fact, I must say that, in accordance with the spirit of the Fundamental Law, the government continues to feel responsible for all Hungarians, for all those living within and outside the borders. Thank God, it was possible to provide additional resources for them, as spokesperson Varga Simeon said, that more resources could be provided for nationalities within the borders by 2017 compared to 2016. As far as border protection is concerned, yes, significant expenditure was also achieved here in 2017. This issue of mass migration spending is reported by the government in the closing book. Here, from the thousands of pages on page 2332, there is a report on the specific purposes for which the government has spent money. I think it is a positive thing that we have managed to implement a border protection system that is preventing illegal migration, and the result is that Hungary is one of the safest countries today. Structural adjustment, structural deficit. Yes, the European Commission has a proposal to reduce expenditure. I have so many comments here that the so-called structural balance is a balance that is debated by economists and, as many economists as there are, in so many ways. It's not an exact indicator, so we're arguing about the structural balance. The government is much more optimistic about the potential growth of the Hungarian economy. It is recalled that in 2012-13 all economists said that the Hungarian economy is unable to grow, and see what growth figures we can see. In line with this, the assessment of potential growth is much more favourable. As regards the Commission's proposals for improving the balance, there is an adopted 2019 budget, which goes in the direction of achieving a lower deficit level by taking advantage of the opportunities for economic growth and reducing debt even further. I would add that this is not only important for the government in 2019 but also for the economic policy programme prepared until 2022. As regards heeding Commission proposals, the government respects EU rules, respects the independence of monetary policy, respects the need to keep the deficit below 3 per cent, respects the need to reduce the debt ratio, but does not want to give up sovereign decisions on economic policy. In this respect, the Commission has also made a number of proposals which it has subsequently withdrawn, for example in the field of public works, when this public work programme has been strongly criticised. Today, the European Commission also considers that yes, the government did the right thing when it did not receive the Commission's comments on the public work programme. Dear House, I apologise if I have reacted for a long time, but in my orientation of the professional nature of the debate, it was important that, in my view, these misconceptions were directed in a different direction. I would also like to thank the pro-government contributions, if I may, for the contribution of a separate Member of Harghita, who, I think, supported with professional arguments that the 2017 discharge is, after all, about the fact that the budgetary framework has been respected by the government and that we have a positive year behind us. Besides, of course, we still have tasks that need to be solved. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-17-26	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Banai. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Jr.
u2018-10-17-27	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, refreshment, perhaps for the first time in the cycle, when a prepared secretary of state tries to protect what the government has put on the table. And in many cases, you can do that. So it makes sense to have a political debate, so I would like to express my appreciation. However, I would like to make one comment on the current Secretary of State's reply. As regards wage agreements, one source of the current increase in wages is the actual tax reduction that has been indicated. I think that this is not necessarily a good way to go until the multi-enterprises and networks involved take their share of the public burden. I propose to the Secretary of State and his team to examine the thousands of billion forints of untaxed exports of profits from the country, leaving the Hungarian national economy for various net lies and reasons. Here it is the rental of manufacturing technology, the rental of know-how, which mainly occurs, and even the renting of IT and other systems, which does not meet the top hat, thus leaving the country untaxed profit of HUF 3000-4000 billion. On the other hand, not only yours, none of the Hungarian governments have given rise to opposition in the last 30 years. So it's a very important system criticism. I would like to make one comment on the speech by my fellow lead speaker at KDNP. I cannot accept the approach that it would be a Hungarian peculiarity that Hungarians like to live in their own family house and real estate. Everyone in the world loves, my fellow Member, to own their own family house, to own their own apartment. The big thing is that a lot of people cannot afford this, and when the government plows the state foot next to the house savings in one year, it eliminates the reduced rate for the tax on new-built apartments, so it takes a number of steps against the market and against the Hungarian young people, the Hungarian interests, it is very difficult to defend itself with this argument. Therefore, my proposal is to consider maintaining all these forms of discount; in the midst of an emigration spiral and a demographic winter, I think they should not afford to take these steps. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-17-28	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, MEP DK, for two minutes.
u2018-10-17-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am very pleased that a Fidesz State Secretary agrees with the former Fidesz politician of the State Audit Office, which is nonsense in itself, since the State Audit Office should not lead a party soldier in a normal democracy. But Hungary has not been a normal democracy since 2010. Other questions: Where is the 3000 billion-dollar pension gone? After all, the Hungarian government debt is increasing, as this long-term figure started with 78 in 2010, and now starts with 84. Let's see what other data we have here. What is the petrol price in Hungary today, what is the tax content of this? Why can't we cut the price so people can live a little better? Let us also look at the fact that the Hungarians pay 27 percent world record VAT! If this is a tax on the poor, then it will make the majority of the Hungarian people poor. Seeing the prices in the grocery store today, I have to say that people will be crippled here very quickly. The government reports among the workers the public workers who, as we know, are worth as much as they are earning. And 47,000 forints Lőrinc Mészáros earns every tenth of a second, so that's pretty much the ratio. Oh, and they also include those working abroad, who happen to be no longer in Hungary, and everything they pay in tax terms now increases the budgets of English, German, Swedish, Dutch and others. You have been ruling for nine years, and Hungary can present four regions of the ten poorest regions of the European Union. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, has already mentioned child poverty. Your statements may already indicate that this has ceased in Hungary, but obviously these statistics are not made by fools either. Finally, I have to say that what we see here is a austerity Orbán package with higher tuition fees, paying health care coming up, taking away the house savings money. So, the Hungarians can hang the belt. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Foolish Dezso applauds.]]
u2018-10-17-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Other speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-17-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, With the exception of Jobbik, I wasn't in the Chamber at the time, listening to the keynote speeches. I must say that, like the Secretary of State, it takes infinite patience to listen with a calm temper to arguments that have nothing to do with professional arguments. I am very pleased to join Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who praised Mr. Secretary of State's professional responses to clearly lying facts. But you've forgotten a few things, so I'd like to return to these allegations. In fact, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, you would have expected a much more prepared speech from the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. [[12.40]] Congressman Varju spoke of political panels, some sort of shady comparison, where he classified the budget as a three-way. I note here that we are not discussing the budget, but we are discussing the closure of the budget, which is about the fact that the previous annual budget was carried out by the country in accordance with the budget law, which was carried out by the government. You forget, Mr Varju, that at the time when he was the Minister of State for Local Government, how many and how many settlements struggled with debts, which ultimately was consolidated by Fidesz debt consolidation. But Mr Gréczy also forgets things here in his two-minute speech. I would like to draw attention to Mr Warvasovszky, the President of the Fidesz State Secretary and Fidesz State Audit Office, who is the Vice-President, and when you were still doing journalism disguised as independent, you were still sitting in the ranks of the MSZP, so believe me that it is unnecessary to point it back for time, the State Audit Office is operating in an appropriate manner elected by Parliament. Mr. Csárdi also quoted several times as Secretary of State. Congratulations to opposition representatives who have acquired individual mandates. There are not too many, there are a few in Pest, and also in Dunaújváros, Szeged and where else? Maybe they're still in one place. But Mr Csárdi is the only individual representative of the LMP, and I am infinitely pleased when, of course, there is no more speaker in the Chamber, when Mr Csárdi tells us to draw our attention, where a multitude of individual Members are sitting, to go among the people and ask the people's opinions, to be aware of the opinions of the people. This is said by the individual MEP in Budapest, who, after finding out that BMW is coming to the capital of East Hungary, Debrecen, quickly ran off and told us how much trouble this will be for the East Hungarians, and what kind of thing it is that, instead of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the government and the state were playing with such a multi-company, and after the negotiations, after all, the BMW decides to settle down there, and the foreign-language press will appear, where Kassa and Oradea will also pick up their heads, because they too wanted to acquire this car factory. But the representative of the liberals, Anett Bősz, said that it should be a professional debate here, and that immigration was under review. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, through a national consultation, Fidesz has asked people, and the response to the national consultation clearly leads us to take the subject of immigration seriously, and it is necessary to spend it on having adequate control over migrants arriving in bulk and wishing to arrive later. Mr Csárdi says that we are not going among the people, and Attila Mesterházy talked about the fact that such a closing debate is not about anything other than that of the opposition, and that the pro-government people say that everything is good and everything is perfect, there is no self-criticism, and that this debate is a pea on the wall, as the head speaker of the MSZP put it. I would just like to say that the government is obviously able to correct and correct in the meantime. Obviously, as a result of contacts with people, we, as individual Members of Parliament, indicated to the government at the time that, for example, the drawing-up of the municipal image manual will sometimes place a heavy burden on small settlements, and the government responded to the budget, as it ordered additional resources to support the preparation of the municipal image manual. We also indicated that, as a result of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and the reduction in the social contribution tax, compensation was also needed in the municipalities, and that we were pleased to see local government leaders, as well as individual Members of Parliament, that this was achieved, and that additional support for the work of the government and kindergarten educators was also required, which was also adjusted by the government in the course of the budget, and that this is also the case in the accounts, or the bill mentions. The content of the bill consists of three large units, the main amounts of central budget expenditure and revenue, the approval of the deficit, the related bill is set out in Annex 1, the accounts of local authorities are set out in Annexes 2 and 4, as well as the commitment framework appropriations for EU programmes and their fulfilment are presented in Annex 5. I forgot about Professor Mellar, who also said in his speech as a keynote speaker that EU funds are being burned here, in particular Fidesz is not being used for real purposes. If an individual representative is among the people and among the local leaders, he knows exactly how much additional demand has been placed on the local governments in the territorial operational programme, which is an opportunity for the regions that belong to the most lagging regions. Obviously, if this goal had been meaningless, then the municipalities would not be applying either, so the words of Professor Mellar can be rejected quite calmly. But it is also what the Secretary of State disproved here, when he declares, Professor, that the government gives much less for educational activities than before. The government gave HUF 168 billion more for educational activity. And from now on, a little bit of the credibility of what you've said can be questioned. For an individual Member, the most important thing about economic policy is perhaps that the economic policy principles announced by the government should be applied. We promised in 2017, we continued what we promised at the beginning of the government cycle, keeping the budget deficit low, reducing public debt and increasing employment, which is why I am pleased with the investments in the automotive industry that we have just mentioned and that are typical of the country. It is also my pleasure that there is public employment. I reject what Mr Gréczy said, who, of course, came to the country with the Hungarian citizens of Transcarpathia, with his party leader, if you will have fun, and you will say so here in Parliament... Believe me, it's a good experience to have someone in your life as mayor, because then you'll think about what you're saying and where you're going to say it. Let us not in Parliament say such irresponsible things about public workers that they are worth as much as they earn. [[Dr. Zsolt Gréczy: János Lázár! Comrade Lazarus!]] I would like to draw your attention... you did not say that these were your words, János Lázár, they were just spoken, and you can look at it in the minutes. I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that every year there is a public employment exhibition in Budapest. You have to go, you have to see what kind of product these public workers produce, and how proud they are of the fact that from their work a product will be placed in Budapest, the capital of the country, which Budapest people admire. So believe me, journalism may be a good thing, but believe me, if we're talking about parliament, government, accounts, people, it's better to have a local government experience, because we know people a lot better, and an individual representative knows people a lot better than you might. And then, obviously, you wouldn't say things like that. [[12.50]] Because believe us that we Members are pleased that, according to favourable macroeconomic processes, the government has decided on additional financing of public interest tasks in its own power of some HUF 2215 billion: churches HUF 88 billion, organisations from across the border, although I say this to you, HUF 33 billion. Believe me, those of us who live near the border, who know history, who know that history didn't start with us, are very important about Hungarians across the border. So I am very pleased that you have received an extra HUF 33 billion. And I am also pleased with the additional resources allocated to sport, tourism and civil society organisations. As a rule, the Court of Auditors is also giving an opinion on the budget, and I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to the fact that the State Audit Office has written the following on the bill:, The implementation of the central budget for 2017 has been carried out in accordance with the legal requirements, and the deficit and public debt have been established in accordance with the laws. The closing bill contains the statutory content elements, and its structure complies with the legal requirements. The bill presents financial data and information on the implementation of the budget in a realistic manner, as reported. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I propose that you take this statement from the Court of Auditors into account in the vote, and that you give a calm conscience to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. Member Tamás Harangozó, Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-10-17-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on the chapters of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Home Affairs, and although, at first sight, it is clear in both areas that more resources have been made available in this area than in previous years, it is difficult, in particular, for the Ministry of Defence to go without talking about the basis from which this increase in budget support started. I think it would be a shame not to remember that after 2010, the government that called itself a national, the political system that called itself a system of national cooperation, the political course that labeled national defence, came to the point that it managed to reduce the spending of 1.1 per cent of GDP in 2010 to 0.7 per cent by 2015, which was virtually the limit of the effective operational capacity of defence. From this point of view, I think it was very good news for the people working in this area and perhaps for all Hungarian citizens, if the Orbán government and Viktor Orbán himself did not think this important on their own, NATO's leading power at the Welsh summit, the United States, has made it clear that it will no longer tolerate any member state of the ally to keep its GDP-related spending close to 2 percent and that it will not reach 2 percent over the next few years. It was important for me to say this because the numbers in this regard are in a very different light. There is indeed an opportunity for today's Hungarian defence to increase this extra resource from 0.7 to 2 percent, which means that we are talking about hundreds of billions of forints a year, the budget can actually double when reaching 2 percent compared to the base. So, obviously, this money can be spent normally as part of a long-term development of forces, and it can be spent as we have seen so far, in the last years, in the years of 2017 and 18, which is more of a nightmare in terms of the profession, and makes the defence a laughingstock for the whole country and the whole nation rather than show the government's high attention. I'll get to the details of why I'm saying this. Moreover, the vast majority of the 178 billion additional resources are spent in 2017 on increasing the ability to prevent and counter terrorism and managing mass immigration. And before I go into this, I would say to Mr Secretary of State that, in terms of both BM and HM, I think that talking about a budget is slowly completely unnecessary, talking about budget planning is almost unnecessary, even if it is gratifying that both areas have received more money. I think it is nonsense, on the one hand, what we often say is that we are talking about closing accounts now, what happened in 2017, while the budget of 19 has already been adopted by Parliament, without the fact figures knowing, and, on the other hand, transfers of various appropriations and reserves that make so-called planning or budget planning in these areas virtually untraceable and ridiculous during the year. From this point of view, however, we are not in any other position, here hundreds of billions of magnitudes are flying to the left and to the right. I would like to say here, Mr Secretary of State, that it is simply shocking that, referring to the crisis caused by mass immigration in the field of defence and police, it is no longer one, not in the order of ten billion, but only in the order of one hundred and one thousand billion forints for HM, that this year the Defence and Police Committee is asking for an exemption from public procurement which, if the Secretary of State shows me now, where we will find 1200 billion forints for defence development in the 2019 budget, I will thank you very much. However, if this is not true because it is obviously not true, neither in the budget nor in any other chapter, then there is a very serious question as to whether the Fidesz majority is legally deciding on a regular basis and whether the leadership of the defence portfolio is legally bringing these proposals before the committee, since it is a fundamental question and a fundamental expectation that the committee knows what it acquires, how much it acquires, what purpose and what kind of resources it has. Well, you don't know anything about these purchases. And once again, I say the shocking number: this year alone, HM and BM brought in an exemption from HUF 1200 billion in public procurement together, with about the fact that it was a hundred billion forints for an ipsilon thing. When, where, who, and what are you going to buy it from, it didn't come out, and the latter worries us a little bit more, given the great purchases they've managed to manage so far. The other huge problem with the defence, but now also in the internal affairs area, is the shortage of numbers. The shortage of numbers that you have started to conceal, since every year the closing accounts have been part of the last few decades, that you have provided accurate, actual figures to the Parliament, which otherwise requires the number of people allowed, for example, in the field of defence, which, as Parliament, provides the necessary resources by adopting the budget. You have started to play a game that is simply quasi-encrypted, not even for Members of Parliament, how many of our soldiers or just how many police officers we had in that year. A refreshing exception, and by looking at this table, probably a technical error could have slipped into the system, because while there was no such data in the year 16 this data slipped into the report of the. Otherwise, you can't read about the 16th in the presentation. But at least it became clear what the opposition has been saying for years, Mr Secretary of State, according to your report, the number of actually occupied military status in 2017 was 24 928, which is interesting because there are 31 000 authorised numbers. So it becomes clear here that there was a shortage of some 6,000, or nearly 20 percent, in the organizational system of defense last year. Compared to this, we have a very interesting surreal debate last night, which is about the Minister of Defense now initiating the increase from 31,000 to nearly 37 thousand in the number of defences allowed. [[13.00]] I don't know how much better it will be if 13 thousand people are missing from the Hungarian Defence Office instead of 6 thousand, about 30-40 percent of the number allowed. I think this is simply making this area ridiculous, and I think it is particularly harmful, what the government is proposing to Parliament now without it being able to put any concrete package of measures or plans on the table, that, in the present situation, with such a shortage of labour, such a recruitment campaign, which, by the way, continues to exist in the co-organizations, such as the police and the enforcement of sentences, will be carried out in a thousand numbers, yet how on earth will you hire 13,000 soldiers, not reserveers, full-time, contractual or professional soldiers in the coming years. In this report, and once again, after the 2016 data has not been published, we need to believe that these are actual figures, and not just some amount entered, that the number of people increased by 845 compared to 2016 last year. Once again, this is interesting from the point of view of not telling me how much this number is relative to, so it's a matter of faith from here on out. Unfortunately, I can no longer believe the Ministry of Defence, because fair wallet management does not hide these numbers, or if there is a problem with the number of defenses we suspect, at least it doesn't beat its breasts. From this series of figures it is also clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the vast majority of the increased amount, as I have said, has obviously gone to border surveillance, in relation to overtime, logistical organisation and feeding of colleagues. In recent years, almost a decisive majority of the increased resources have gone, if not all to cover the 50% wage increase, perhaps introduced in 2015. It's interesting because it clearly shows that this amount hasn't provided any real development, by the way, and to support what I'm saying, then listen to it, look at the Ministry of the Interior's chapter report, and then you're just rushing to see what it looks like if an area is making serious purchases. The bodies placed under the Ministry of Interior have been able to obtain new technical tools in some amazing order, whether we are talking about the equipment of colleagues, technical tools or, by the way, all kinds of technical supplies that are very significant, which represent the entire storehouse of secret service equipment, have been implemented in recent years; the Ministry of Defence cannot account for almost anything like this. By 2019, we will have to ask whether the salary increase of five years ago is still holding. The country's change in the labour market in these five years has created different relations on the market, and this is what we see on the one hand in terms of emigration and, on the other hand, in terms of labour shortages, is creating a huge problem for the defence and the police to keep their colleagues. I think that their plan to settle the situation once and for all with this wage increase five years ago should be reviewed; they will face very serious problems if they do not change it. Plus, there's the overtime problem, which would take place from January 1, 2019. I would also like to point out to the Secretary of State that this is not a problem of the opposition or not just a question raised by the opposition. It should be noted that, for example, in the field of prison execution and other law enforcement and defence agencies, especially bv, will be a major problem. If the government does not act very quickly, either the bill I have tabled or any other opposition proposal or even a pro-government proposal will not be adopted by Parliament very quickly. Overall, in the field of defence, we can say once again that, although there is more money, most of it has gone to border protection, there are no real developments, the wage issue is going to push you more and more, while it is not possible to go without saying what has been done in the last year and a half for defence procurement, I say once again, embarrassing the Hungarian Defence Agency, by purchasing two passenger aircraft, by continuing to use these passenger planes in public and in the face of the whole country as a government machine, so that the scandal can happen, while the Prime Minister and his folk orchestra are being flown right and left in the world with these machines, while our soldiers in the foreign service have to be humiliated by using a chartered machine. So I'm going to ask the government very, very nicely, with great respect, to pull on the handbrake, to get a little carried away, because if this is the line of defence development, this country won't recover for decades. As for the home affairs area... I look up to Mr. President. Do I have a 15-minute window?
u2018-10-17-34	Fifteen.
u2018-10-17-35	That's terrible. Then I'm not really going to do that anymore...
u2018-10-17-36	I'd like to ask you to speak again.
u2018-10-17-37	It will be, yeah. Well, then I'm not going to get into that, because that's really interesting, I think, and a few words will be worth changing about. So thank you very much for your attention, and I will continue in the next round. Thank you.
u2018-10-17-38	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, who asked for the floor for two minutes.
u2018-10-17-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is a pity that Congressman Tilki left the room, because I am obviously telling him, and then afterwards the colleagues will tell him that I did not tell him that he is worth as much money as he is, but that John Lazarus would have found the sender of the message a few chairs away. On the other hand, to the success of public workers... I think that public workers are a very important part of society and they are doing important work, but to bang our breasts by having these public workers, who are sometimes even blackmailed, when there is a choice, that if they do not vote for Fidesz, they will lose their jobs well. It would be difficult to build it in the long run. I think that a Fidesz Member is the least obliged to take account of any patriotism or respect for Hungarians across borders. My message to Mr Tilki was that István, the king, was first introduced in 2003 across the border, in Csíksomlyó, his press chief; I organized cultural events and presented them in Subotica, Kassa, Bratislava, Csíkszereda, Sepsiszentgyörgy; for example, I organized aid concerts to help Transylvanian flood victims, and when I organized a cultural program there, the RMDSZ was not a party soldier, but I believe that since Gábor Bethlen, the largest Transylvanian politician was at the head, called Béla Markó. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-17-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács is next to be heard from the Fidesz Group.
u2018-10-17-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I confess that I will be somewhat more understanding of the opposition and opposition speakers than my fellow Member, Attila Tilki, because I myself have spent a few cycles as a politician in opposition enough and sufficient time to know that when there is no catch on the other side, the opposition has a very difficult position, very difficult. The positions we held as opponents were undoubtedly easier. It was simpler because we had closed accounts where it was not difficult to find the handlers that allowed man to attack government policy with sufficient strength and calmness. It's harder now, you have to admit, it's much harder, because it's hard to argue with numbers. When there are impressive numbers that have already been listed here by many, but from which I would only highlight one or two, and which mean, to me in the House, especially since I recall, unless the Kádár era has been based, such indicators have not existed in unemployment, employment. And it can be said, and here I say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, that because they have gone abroad and are working abroad, and because we count this, please respectfully, let us not say that the number of emigrants has increased in the last year because they have decreased. [[Zsolt Gréczy: No, Congressman, no!]] And if that number's true, it's true. [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] Of course, you can say how many hundreds of thousands of people live in London. [[13.10]] Then, when they have to be taken into account, it turns out that half of the opposition's figures are true. Consequently, I think that these are not good grips. There has been an opposition speech from Mr Tamás Mellár, Member, which, I think, followed the direction that I do not want to give advice for the world from an opposition point of view, the future. It is the future, to talk about, if there is already a good performance on the part of the government, and it is very difficult to argue about it, if there is a performance that can be quantified, then it is worth talking about what Tamás Melár also talked about what the possibilities of the future are. Ladies and gentlemen, We are all aware here on the government side that, following the crisis, there has been a kind of change in the world economy that can be characterised by an abundance of money, and of which we are aware that this is finite. We all know that counting and calculating these options are going to narrow down sooner or later. I hope they won't collapse, they'll narrow down, but we'll have to deal with that. I believe that one of the greatest virtues of the 2017 budget, apart from numbers, is that it has not become an election budget. All we've heard before is that there's no election budget coming up when the waste starts, the money-spending starts. It didn't come to nothing. But again, I have to say that we were in a much easier position than the opposition was before. We were in a lighter position because it was possible to adopt a budget with support and confidence that predicted that we were entitled to count on the future, and this was important. I believe that this closing account is a reflection of that right now. Is this closing record flawless, and we really just want to talk about discussing a flawless account, a flawless budget? I don't think that's what we're saying. The Secretary of State himself made that clear. Yes, there are obviously always new challenges, and these challenges need to be addressed. When the opposition highlights a sector or sub-sector within the economy and within the national economy, it is rightly right to do so if this is moderate and truly forward-looking. In the given situation, I know, the two sensitive points that are referred to continuously and with the basis often are education and health. However, we can rightly say that there has been a significant increase in the financial support part in health care, but there is one very important point that we would like the government to take into account in the future: it is worth even more money or significant amounts in health care if structural changes are also made. Where the money comes in, but where there is no clear and clear structural situation, it is clear that this money will go away, the money will not be useful. Consequently, if the government is pursuing a responsible policy, it must clearly provide the options it intends to provide in both areas in line with the structural changes. There's another area where I actually asked for the floor. This is a matter of agricultural and rural development. When it occurred to me that more than HUF 1000 billion would be spent on the development of county-righted cities, I was pleased to hear this, and supported it on my part, but then I immediately raised it, and I say today, at the same time, that the programme should be published to guarantee the future of small settlements and ensure the possibility of small settlements. This program is being prepared and launched. It has already started in part, and let me say that it is encouraging, which can be quantified in recent years: after all, 174 thousand applications have been received within the framework of the rural development programme and 98 percent have been evaluated. That's the positive. Which is less positive, but I think it was largely for reasons outside the government that payout performances would take place differently than we thought or hoped. This is also the case with regard to Hungarian agriculture. There have been and need to be changes that have created some new regulations and new payment places within the payment system; I think this was necessary and I believe that these payments will be made. What is truly thoughtful, and I think it must be said: it cannot be from the opposition position, either, that there is something radiating from some of the speeches that is worse, the better; that worse than going, the country can be better than going. It was said that it would be the hope for the opposition that the European Union would not give us the support that it would otherwise require. They will arrive, my dear House. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This is how you politicalized in opposition!]] 'Cause I think, with a fair policy, they're gonna come here, and I have to say, regardless, that the government is prepared for every possibility. It is also visible from this budget, even more so from the 2018 budget. Therefore, Honourable House, I think that if you have to make use of something from Tamás Melár's speech, it is primarily the vision of the future. A vision that, I believe, gives the opposition some encouragement only if they see the opportunities and wish to seize these opportunities in the interests of the country; if they are to explore these opportunities in such a way that this is more acceptable than that which others have set up. That's not the case today. I want there to be a change in that. I would also like the debates within Parliament to be about what could make it even better. And if that is what the debate is about, then I believe that the positions of the opposition will be different. Dear House, I've been too busy, I think, with the opposition. [[Gyula Molnár: No, no!]] I need to focus more on what I think and hope for in the coming time, and which has been established in this budget. I consider it one of the biggest breakthroughs and this has occurred within the tax system for families with two children to ensure tax relief. Looks like a very short sentence. It doesn't seem like a breakthrough, but it is. The demographic issue is an important issue in Hungary, as Dániel Z. Kárpát raised it. All steps must be taken in this area that lead to a demographic turnaround, but drawing up or proposing a disaster picture is not only unfounded but also harmful. It is the foundation of the vision that can ensure that the children we need are born in the coming time. This method cannot be the way that many children have been brought into the world in Hungary once, it is not the way of a democratic country. The method is to start extending the possibility of support for families with two children. Because changing thinking does not happen by reading about society, and I say look at the indicators, and there is a need for more children. Everyone will nod: yes, more children are needed. But to do it? The responsible take two, the less responsible, but still responsible take at least one, the selfish, the especially selfish people do not take one. So, my dear House, I think this kind of turn is going to go on. In this, I believe that the Government's intentions must be supported jointly. To sum up: this accounts itself, the 2017 budget has established the possibility of a success that I believe is worth and can continue with the 2018 budget. Trust is in this country today. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-17-42	Thank you, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-10-17-43	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In total, I would like to address two issues in relation to the evaluation of the budget. One is the role of the Union and the other is the role of the State in the functioning of the country. The role of the Union has also been mentioned by the Secretary of State, but I think that we are right to think about it if we treat it in its place and really appreciate its role in terms of the budget and the functioning of the country. [[13.20]] I guess I didn't say anything new, because Mihály Varga knows it and knows it. He acknowledged in a recent professional debate:. There is no doubt that EU funds add to the Hungarian economy, we are net beneficiaries of the system. But you have to think of it as teaching your kid to ride a bike and pushing it from behind. If he doesn't push, he's slowing down, but he still has a speed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I raised two children, they both know how to ride a bike. Thinking back to my experience at the time, I remember that if it slowed down, it could have been a slap in the face, and then it was a big cry and a cry. That is why I believe that the role of the Union should be taken into account for the functioning of the country. What I am thinking is that, in my view, this country has received an amazing amount of EU funding over the past period, and what I think is particularly tragic is how low the impact of this on efficiency gains is. In the coming period, I think it could create a dangerous situation if we do not pay enough attention to this. Good and lucky to have you here, Secretary of State. Today, two opposition representatives have also praised their presence and participation in the debate. I'm increasing these, although I can see that you're a little confused about why you're being praised for this. Because it is a curiosity, for example, in view of the day yesterday, when no one in the world was willing to comment on the part of the government about the house savings. Compared to that, it's refreshing that you're here and that you're even talking to the opposition. So I think that, in its proper place, we will manage the role of the Union, and we will not fail if we are aware that our country's real performance is around 12%. If we recall my example a few minutes ago, rather than what I quoted from the Minister of Finance, the example of a cyclist, this very slow growth can also become life-threatening. It can become particularly dangerous if we examine in parallel what the role of the state is in this whole system. The state is a large source user. Therefore, I think it is inevitable and inevitable to look at the extent to which the state's use of resources is. I looked back at these data by 2010. The state's expenditure increased in excess of the average. I understand that in the year of the elections, it was enough to talk about a huge layoffs here and the role of the state needs to be re-examined, and a huge cost reduction is needed. But it's been a while since then, and again, I'm finding that's what they're talking about, talking, and nothing's happening in this case. At the same time, from 2016 to 2017, we have seen a significant increase again in this area in terms of resources to be used for the operation of the State. So I think that these are the two issues that are useful for us to look at in general when evaluating the budget and thinking together about what we should be dealing with in the coming period. One is the need to examine how the funds received from the European Union are being used. I can say very few investments that will be able to generate funds in the future, and we have spent EU funds on this. With me, think of the viewers, stadiums and others, which we have built from EU funds, and in particular of the fact that it can not only create resources, but also require additional resources to maintain them. This is where I find this issue dangerous. In my opinion, it says a lot about who thinks what is important, that when it was possible for the government to decide the fate of HUF 215 billion, I think this was at the end of the year, the beneficiaries of the funds included: churches 88 billion, organisations across the border HUF 33 billion, sports infrastructure development HUF 71 billion. You feel that this is probably not ideal for efficiency gains, do you? But that's what you decided. When we felt that there was a little money that we didn't expect to have, but we could spend it on something, then it was decided to spend it on them. If I asked you one by one, you wouldn't have thought of spending it on these. I'm sure we could have spent this on something more useful. However, this says a lot about how we think about using financial resources. That's a thought I find unfortunate. I would like to mention one more thing that my fellow Member Tilki induced in me when he said that both the SAO and other written documents classified this accounts as reliable and transparent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors has received data on the growth of GDP in Hungary from a website such as tozsdearnyek.hu. I'm not kidding. Take a look. Not to mention the small inscription that can be found under the graphs on this website, and this is meant to say that the data and information on this page are informative and cannot be considered a credible source. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is how we are, and it is no wonder that the transparency of our budget in the European Union is still one of the worst assessments. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Rig: That was a low blow! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-17-44	Thank you, Congressman. It's a two-minute lap. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-10-17-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am sorry that my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, has left because he was the only one today who spoke of mistakes. I hope he doesn't get hurt. He was the only one in today's debate who allowed you, Mr Secretary of State, to do not 110 percent of the work, but perhaps, by chance, of course, because good intentions are the only thing that makes this government work, that, perhaps, there was something that wasn't completely well done during this period, if nothing else, only by the law of big numbers. Therefore, I think that this sound that Béla Turi-Kovács hit is closer to reality, and I thank him for this type of comment, even though he also thought that the government was on an excellent path. The other is that the Secretary of State spoke about the fact that in Hungary you almost eradicated poverty, especially child poverty. Those who write stupid things like the Fundamental Rights Agency of the European Union must be... Although you didn't add this, if you hadn't spoken, but a political partner of your party, you would have said that the migraines could do something about it, and that they are attacking Hungary with child poverty because they want to take Hungary again by the AIDS negroes. For this reason, I think there should be greater modesty in this speech. So when it comes to a comprehensive report that 33 percent of Hungarian children are at risk of poverty, I think it is appropriate to be more modest along such data, in addition to what the government has now taken, where appropriate, positive measures. I also think it would encourage the government to be modest that the income scissors in Hungary have not decreased. Whatever the Secretary of State says, the income gap has increased in Hungary. Thank you very much. I'll continue in a regular comment later. Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2018-10-17-46	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Attila Tilki will have the floor.
u2018-10-17-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to a gullible Member, who was a single winner, that the voters would take him to account if he was inaccurate. The 40-inch viewer was built during the period of the socialists, so if you use the word "lookout" you will hurt your own partymates. [[13.30]] It is also inaccurate that the funds spent on sport are made available through EU support. I would like to emphasise that this is happening from national sources. By the way, what you have highlighted, believe me, we say exactly that churches, Hungarians beyond the borders, must be spent. I propose to Mr Gréczy that I have just met Szekler brothers in Parliament, introduce who you are and what party you are [[Gyula Molnár: You weren't here when she reacted.]] I saw the speech, I heard what you said, what party you were in, and then you'll be judged by the Szeklers, whatever you've done before. Your president has discredited your party's policy across the border. At the time, I tell you, there were 24 settlements in my area in 88 bordering on Transcarpathia, your candidate for Prime Minister. Mr Gyurcsány came there, made a good one, and was deeply shocked when a Hungarian from Transcarpathia came to him from Nagydobrony, and said that it hurts that we were born and raised on the other side of the border? And your president couldn't really answer that. Trust me. You do not speak of Hungarians from across borders, DK is the way it is, at all! [[Zsolt Gréczy: Do not deprive people of freedom of speech!]] How effective an investment is, Congressman, the XIII. It is a different world from the district, believe me that renovating a doctor's office is a useful thing, but, by the way, this is what Congresswoman Bango has been asking in Parliament, why there are no general practitioners. If we don't renovate the clinic, then there's no doctor coming to a small village. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's one way to measure efficiency. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-17-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-10-17-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I welcome the three pro-government representatives and the two secretary of state. I see that today we have heard a lot of funny and big empathy from the pro-government lines about who has a role to play in such a situation. When you look at world politics, you see that there really are a lot of funny and useful sentences, what you have to do in a budget debate, what you have to do in a close-out for pro-government and what you have to do for opposition representatives. Yet I say that if we quote Hungary's number one classic, the largest pyramid builder, then we can say that he said: "Don't look at what I'm saying, but what I'm doing. I think that for each authority, whether it is at any level, whether it be a local government or a national policy, the largest measure of what budget it is to submit and then how the budget is to be implemented. Those figures show the nature of this power, the philosophy, or, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said in his keynote speech, what kind of social policy he has. If I strip things down a lot, I would say that we see a closure of a decent operation with a budget that is not very bright, but still a country that tries to operate fairly, relatively little innovation and innovation XXI. I'm trying to interpret it in a hundredth way. A structure-stabilizing budget and closing account that tries to capture traditional structures from a certain point of view, which we consider to be an old structure, is too much development, too much movement is not allowed to itself, and free resources will be clearly mentioned in their own ideas, or, as they are sometimes used, is used by this government to fund their own hobbies. In the meantime, let us say a few words about this: I would like to remember it myself, although the Secretary of State has responded, but I say that, yes, we are happy, we are proud, because we live here in Hungary, that there is a 4.1 percent increase. It is very right for Hungary to catch up more quickly to the world where it would like to catch up, but really, what my fellow Member Dezső Believable has read is really the 1,400 billion EU funds, the extra resources that have been involved, the ones that have been pushed like the bike kid by his father. All analysts say, and I'm not saying this as a debate, only if we are actually telling the facts here that Hungary's real economic potential in this economic structure, with so many foreign companies, is 1-2 percent. That's all right, that's a good performance. I'm just gonna say this one more time so everyone can handle it in their place. I would also like to remember that it is nice that the deficit has been reduced with the approval of the State Audit Office. We read the 2016 accounts as 72,3 percent, and now 72,9 percent, but we accept that now, in playing with numbers, the special significance of this is not, anyway, they will be able to explain this. I would like to say a short block on employment, which was less said here today. I am also bringing this here because I see that this is one of the types of results that is shown to be one of the greatest successes of the civilian government, Hungary, moving towards full employment. I know you're going to call it a prank, but why is it that the amount of job search support still in this budget, because what is the need for job search support where there is full employment, where people can find work excellently and easily, this job search support has increased by HUF 5 billion. If everyone is working, if what they all say is true, that the job is actually looking for a job today, then it might be worth thinking about removing the type of support of employers that is linked to the application, because it is now really about the fact that in certain professions, in certain areas, there is a much more labour shortage. It is only quietly noted that this budget also includes a system of support for the reception of Ukrainian-national workers, so, speaking of refugee policy. And when someone talks about employment, it is worth giving some thought to the fact that this government cannot be proud of what it has done with the terms of disability. We are individual representatives, and we metropolitan people, with Dezső Believing, László Hajdu, feel this powerfully in our host hour, the amazing human fates that arise behind this, which, frankly speaking, we sometimes cannot imagine how people who are otherwise clearly incompetent, in some ways really in a difficult situation, are transformed and, in what humiliating process they may be redirected back to the labour market. And I do not think that we can be proud of the fact that in the European Union there is the shortest amount of job search support in Hungary, which is one of the shortest in Hungary. I would like to express some insights and philosophical thoughts here in relation to the budget. The big question in the family is that if we had a better year, we had more revenue, then the family council would sit down and make more decisions. It may be the decision to say that this may be the case in wise families, or in more cautious families, this difference between the pessimist and the optimist, the half-full, half-empty cup, that we must reserve for difficult times, because even more difficult times may come, we should not live up to our wealth now, as the Hungarian man says, we will not sell the family jewels. It's a possible concept, and we say we wait, we live beautifully, just like we used to. It's possible to think that it's time to live what we want to live, realize our desires and dreams, and see what happens when the hard times come again. Well, in any case, or I say that the last few years have been about the fact that trade partners who are of particular importance to Hungary have been able to show better economic growth than average. Energy prices are found in the world at the lowest level in recent decades, and obviously for a country that is heavily dependent on it, this is a very, very important thing. There's peace in the world. This is also important, because let's not forget that the South Slavic crisis has significantly reduced the economic processes in the region and, in the meantime, we can get money in a very cheap way. I am not talking about bank money, I am thinking about EU money in the first place. The question is, then, that when this situation arises and the family meets, and I really do not say this pejoratively, the Prime Minister and the government, what decision does it make: does it try to develop a modern Hungary, a Hungary that will be competitive even when these indicators are not so bright? Today, I think Attila Mesterházy said that obviously the country doesn't want it, but we would like you to try to explain the same things once, when there is no place in the world to sell Hungarian products, when otherwise money is not allowed when there is such a crisis that all the funding channels that have worked until then fall in. [[13.40]] In these few years, in this blessed state, you have built a non-modern Hungary, not concerned with what makes Hungary innovative, that from the Hungarian knowledge we are so proud of, how, for example, IT knowledge will become an industry that will survive this century. No, you've made a construction plant from Hungary, and we're even proud to use a plural in this, so they don't get me wrong, because we've reduced trade union rights, because, by the way, we've reduced the corporate profit tax to less than 10% of the major multinationals, so we're a real treasure mine for these companies, and we're actually not here in Silicon Valley, but a assembly plant where we have to do mechanical work for people, a job that might be done 20-30 years from now, so I say, in our lives, but in our children's life, it will certainly be visible, not done by human hands, but rather by robots. I think this will be a very serious and serious historical responsibility. So when we look back at this era because this is what we now call an era, because if they are going to go through this cycle, there will be 12 clear years, I think history will decide that this has put Hungary on a growing path, built a new country, or rather it is about the fact that because they couldn't dream of a future for themselves, they were forced to lie about the past and go backwards in history, going backwards on every issue, which is economic policy or, above all, social policy. I would like to say the second thing in mind, which is what Attila Mesterházy was talking about. Whatever they say, it's the fact, everything shows that whoever's on top is growing, and whoever's on the bottom doesn't grow, that's behind, and there's no chance that he'll reproduce himself. So today there are types of life situations in Hungary that the planning chances of people in the low income category are not one or two years old, but a few days or a few months old. I'll tell you about the municipalities, since we've been involved here as mayors, and my friend Dezső, I believe that's the best example. I think the thing about task funding has failed. Really, let's use this word, but never a man has ever shown us how this task funding actually works, how it looks. Plus, I'm sorry, but it's amazingly different in Rákospalota to finance a task, and it's amazingly different in Baktalórántháza or Alsómólád to mention a small village; excellent Mayor László Digó, I think he's been doing his job there for 20 years. So, no job funding, I can't say a better word, but it's more about face financing or loyalty financing. I'll give you an example: 109 pages of the annex to the local government section, 11 pages of which list such tasks, and then in the rest, there is also a market in Békásmegyer, Csurgó sport, Veszprém sport, Pécs, Pestszentimre practice, but then there are 98 pages of individual decisions. So it's not that someone knows systematically what to expect, it's that they're applying during the year, they're trying, and someone's deciding, a central power. Let's talk to any mayor today, you know, if he talks a lot, if he's not loyal enough, then this money might not come to him. Yes, we have already discussed this surplus funding of 215 billion at the end of the year. I understand that the Hungarians across the border, the church, the stadiums are a good decision for stadiums 71 billion, by the way, but if I have 215 billion, then let's put the other foot there, and in the meantime 8 billion forints for culture and 9 billion forints for health care. So what I'm really saying is, what I've been trying to show you here in some way is that if I have 215 billion, I'm gonna try to build a future out of it. The stadium, the concrete. In any respect, when roads were built in the world and public funds were put in concrete, the only good thing for one person, the Mafia, was usually organised crime in this context. I do not say that this is the case in Hungary now, before anyone accuses me, Mr President, but I just want to say that it has always benefited; concrete cannot be examined and measured afterwards. Here the money did not go to what I think is much, much more important for Hungary to be a modern European country, which stands on its feet even when, by the way, the winds are not so favorable in the world. Well, that's why we're saying that this closing account is not acceptable. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-17-50	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Molnár. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2018-10-17-51	Thank you very much. In these two minutes, I'd like to continue with two thoughts. Béla Turi-Kovács also talked about the fact that healthcare has enough money, but efficiency is not good. I think that this statement is certainly not true, because we see daily health problems. There is another area worth mentioning, the area of education. The Secretary of State is here to see if he'll join the debate, because they're in charge of this area. It's not very convincing, though, the direction you've just started in higher education with Corvinus University. I understand what the goal is, but it is easy to get to the point that children from the poorer ranks in Hungary will not be able to get into higher education, who should be given the greatest help in this regard, so it is not necessarily reassuring that they want to extend this model to the whole higher education, which they want to introduce at Corvinus University. I think this involves such an elitist approach to higher education in Hungary, and this certainly does not serve equal opportunities; just as there is room for more money in health care to make sure that rubber gloves are not missing from a particular hospital. I would say to Congressman Tilki here within two minutes, there may have been a 40-inch lookout tower in our time, but the settlement you know, the village of Tyukod, built 11 lookouts of 264 million relatively quickly, where there is a two thousand village. So it looks like this lookout point might be something special, because every government has one of these from an EU application. I'm sure there's more people climbing to look out. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-17-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Retvári in two minutes.
u2018-10-17-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to confirm what my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács said earlier. Indeed, every year we tried to increase both education and health resources. If I look at the health figures, they are higher, we are already at HUF 647 billion higher in next year's budget than in the 2010 budget, and in the field of education, higher education and public education are overall HUF 606 billion higher in the budget adopted for next year than in the budget adopted for 2010. So there really is much more resources available in health care. In both health care and education, most of these surpluses, almost half of them were spent on raising wages, as in education we made a 50 percent wage increase for teachers, we made a 27 percent wage increase for teachers in higher education, in healthcare we doubled their income for nurses between 2012 and 2019, and in the case of doctors in 2012-13 we made a 27 percent wage increase, and last year and last year we made a HUF 207,000 gross wage increase. All these surpluses are among the lines of budgetary laws, closing accounting laws, so this expansion is noticeable and significant. The congressman has gone to higher education separately. In recent years, since 2014, a special fund, the Higher Education Structure Transformation Fund, has been established in higher education, with several billion HUF items in this closing accounting law, which served precisely the purpose of improving the functioning of a university, a college by transforming something in its internal structure, to obtain additional support for this. The various end-of-year hospital support of the past years, from which the government paid the accumulated debt, has always been on some condition that instead of later extra cost production, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] reduces the increase in costs by means of a restructuring. As far as Corvinus University is concerned, I think, honourable Member, we could have expected proposals from a lot of people in 25 years. [[The president's ringing again.]] how to include Corvinus University among the 100 best universities in Europe. We are now living with an experiment, more precisely, a proposal that gives Corvinus University the opportunity to develop more than in the last 25 years. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-54	Thank you. For two minutes, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK. [[13.50]]
u2018-10-17-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Béla Turi-Kovács just said that the opposition should not be led by the fact that the worse it is for the country, the better for the opposition. I would like to remind you that it was Viktor Orbán who went to Brussels in 2006 and called on the European Union to take EU funds from Hungary, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian businesses and the Hungarian settlements at a meeting of the European People's Party. So who wanted to hurt the country? Viktor Orbán wanted to hurt this country. I would also like to say to Mr Tilki that the Gyurcsány government has tripled the support of Hungarian schools, libraries and theatres across the border. True, he did not impose such requirements as to destroy the legitimate political organization of Hungarians across the border. The Orbán government has created new parties. I'm sure you remember the half-percent beatings of the Orbán civil parties in Transylvania. We can also see what has become of the Hungarian party in the Highlands: it is out of Slovak legislation. This has been the result of the policy of the Orbán government beyond the borders. And you can also see that it will not be easy to be Hungarian in Ungvár, Munkács and Beregszász. You will experience this very closely, because the diplomatic scandal in which the diplomacy led by Péter Szijjártó involved Hungary with this double-citizenisation procedure will mean that it will be very bad to be Hungarian there, and it is your responsibility and your sin. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-17-56	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will have the floor.
u2018-10-17-57	Mr President, Dear House, The Jobbik faction was reprimanded well in order not to say that emigration has increased in recent years, because according to Fidesz, that is not true. Let the numbers speak. Let the figures make it clear that during the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments, the total number of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin decreased by 700,000 people. It's a brutal, dramatic weight loss. Obviously, I am not just talking about the territory of the current Hungary, we are looking at things in our system, and we are also talking about Transylvania, Highlands and Southlands. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. Győzsef Vinnai.]] Our problem is that, starting from a lower base, the decline of the Hungarian population in the Carpathian Basin has been shown to be an additional 1 million since 2010, and, of course, one of the causes of this increased weight loss is increased emigration. We are often reassured by the Fidesz fellow Members not to worry, because even though emigration from here is not denied, in the neighbouring countries, i.e. in the other countries of the region, this is a much higher percentage. This does not comfort us, for it only means that one patient is maimed and the other dies in a shorter way. None of them are west of me. I want all the flowers to bloom, and the Carpathian Basin doesn't empty. An amazing demographic disaster is undermining national economic processes at the moment, and the signs of this are already showing. That is why I consider not only irresponsible, but almost treasonable, government measures that execute the State aid leg for housing savings, which eliminates the reduced VAT rate for new-built apartments, which are trying to lead the Hungarian citizens towards the CSOK, which is almost the only way to help the wealthy, while these are not typical Hungarian living conditions. We need a rental system, a home for young people, life opportunities. On this front, this government has absolutely nothing to show for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-58	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2018-10-17-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Gréczy, this is what we expected from you. You have always denied Hungarians across the border, and you have done so now. They are responsible for the dual citizenship institution...? I invite you, I have border crossings in my area for Transcarpathia. Let's go to any village, and I'll introduce you, and then they'll thank you for the manner you've shown so far. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] DK shouldn't say anything about cross-border matters. At least Gyula Molnár was a professional. I remember the time when Mr Hajdu, Mr Molnár and I sat on the Municipal Committee, and we also debated. Because it's different to see the country from Budapest and it's different from a rural settlement. Before anyone thinks that your viewer-built Tyuk is in my constituency, I can reassure everyone that they're not. Although I would like to tell Mr Mesterházy that he should also go through the Tornyospács, which is Zsolt Legény's hometown, and look at the hunger for children, how much food they receive at school. And unfortunately, it is typical of villages to throw away school lunches in many settlements because they simply cannot eat it. So this picture is a little more nuanced. You can argue about this, but believe me, Mr. Gréczy, you don't go there because it's not good for you. As they say in our area, Endre Ady said this quote about Moricz. Endre Ady wrote about the Seven Crouchers: people here don't lie with will. If their mouths are bitter, they spit... [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Mr. Gréczy! Endre Ady wrote to the Seven Krajcars written by Zsigmond Móricz. Hit Ady, Seven Krauts, Móricz, and he'll throw out the quote. People here don't lie with will. If their mouths are bitter, they spit, if their palms are itchy, they hit. That's the kind of people that live there, including Transcarpathia. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise, interruptions from the opposition side.]]
u2018-10-17-60	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP. [[Lajos Korózs: Two minutes?]] They'll be two minutes in the next round, I'll tell the congressmen. Mr. Korózs, it's up to you.
u2018-10-17-61	Excuse me, I thought you were two minutes away. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to take up a few sentences of your time on social security and welfare services, and I would like to have your attention. If we look at these spendings as a percentage of GDP, we can see, for the last year, that some 13.9 percent of the funds have been provided for these purposes. I just note that, let's say, nine years ago, when the economic crisis raged in Europe and in the world, the Hungarian budget provided 17.7 percent more for these purposes. In particular, I read some HUF 283 billion from the statistics for family support, combined with tax and contribution allowances, and, if I remember correctly, HUF 314 billion was paid for family allowances. This is interesting because what we now see, not only because of the number of children, is that the size of these items is decreasing, but it is also about the fact that for the ninth and even tenth years the family allowance has remained unchanged, and in ten years, almost 20 percent of the value of this has been absorbed. I know that the government representatives always miss, but there's a family tax reduction. I find this kind of family policy or social policy fairly unfair, because families with higher incomes can take greater advantage of it, and for those who really need this Community support, there is not enough of social income. The other problem I see in this is a reduction in the age limit for compulsory education. This has also made it clear that the use of family allowances has affected the way in which this amount has been reduced. The amount for maternity allowance increased to almost 107.3 percent, but the amount of the child was only 93,6 and the amount of the child was 88, almost 89 percent. Interestingly, I couldn't find in the textual explanation a single sentence on why these two items, the amount of the child and the extent of the law were so reduced compared to what was planned. In addition, I believe that my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy has pointed out that quite a lot of electronic media has dealt with the extent of child poverty, all the more so, because once again an EU inquiry has come to light. [[14.00]] There's an element in this that's new. It is certainly well known to my fellow Members that a family where 60% of the median income is not is poor. This is one indicator, but another aspect has now been taken into account. Where the household has not spent one fifth of all the 8-hour work in the main occupation They are also included in this category. And there are nine indicators, which we adopted at the convention in Laken, in which it is measured that if four of these indicators do not have a family, then they should be seen as clearly poor, even living in extreme poverty. This includes, from the repayment of the rent to the proper heating of the apartment, from colour television to mobile phones. I don't list all nine. Now, here's another methodological point, and since I've just been given the floor here, I'll tell you this, although it may be a little too late for this methodological approach, which concerns the 9 indicators. Because, let's just say, 20 years ago, there was room for someone who doesn't have a phone to be included in this category. But look, we're living in a world where I think practically everyone has a phone, and just because someone has a phone doesn't mean they can't starve. It is therefore clear that the situation between the Member States of the European Union is only worse in Bulgaria and Romania than in Hungary. If we look at the Visegrád countries, it is clear, fellow Members, that in recent years, for example, the Polish have taken government measures that have halved child poverty in Poland, or perhaps even to a greater extent, the situation in Poland has improved 60 percent in recent years. But very, very good measures have been taken by our Slovak neighbours and, traditionally, in Europe, the Czech Republic, for example, has one of the least value in the case of child poverty. Maybe we should see how they do it. It's not that much magic, by the way, to reduce child poverty. Secondly, I would like to deal with pension expenditure for a few reasons. With regard to pensions, the real position has, you might say, improved, because 0.1 percent of real positions have also improved. At the same time, I should mention that the increase in wages is far from keeping pace with the increase in pensions. Nearly six years ago, the previous Orbán government converted to the inflation-following pension-raising technique, and created a situation where pensions practically break away from wages. In fact, now you can see another trend. Not only are pensions separated from wages, but pensioners in the camp of pensioners who have enjoyed the positive impact of the real wage increase of the last two years and, say, will retire next year, taking into account the real position growth of the previous two years, will often be granted pensions completely different from the same profession, with the same period of service, often from the same job. Because, given the previous two years, as we have just calculated, there is about 27 percent difference, let's say, in the last year he retired, in the same profession and in the same tax and social contributions, and between the person who retires next year. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The other thing I have to mention is that the ratio between the average salary and the pension average is horribly distorted. Even more so, because the replacement rate means that those who leave the pension system, who die, and who enter the pension system, come in with a significantly higher starting pension than those who leave the pension system. So there's this kind of distortion right here. There are also very serious differences in the size of initial pensions compared to net wages in the substitution rate. As I have said, since 2012, only pensions increased by inflation can be talked about, and in this case, in particular, it is the small pensioners who suffer from this kind of policy. Because what the government is saying here is that it will only increase pensions the following year by as much as the rate of deterioration. So if you've lived miserablely low on pensions last year, the Orbán government will guarantee that you will live miserablely low on pensions again next year, because you will only increase your pension by as much as your money has deteriorated. Now, in previous years, inflation was usually underdesigned, and there was some sort of adjustment, but this should not be called a pension correction, because it is simply that at the end of the year, the average of 1-8 months, the difference is given by the government in one amount, which is legally due to these elderly people or pensioners. Please, I have looked at the average replacement ratio in terms of net wages and average pensions. In 2015, pay attention, this substitution rate was 67 percent, so 67 percent of net wages were the average pension rate, and in 2018 it will be only 55 percent. From now on, I think it is worth thinking about what social policy is really like for pensioners in this situation, the Orbán government conveys to pensioners, how fair this social policy is and how just this pension policy is. Several people here have referred to how the invalids have been dealt with, and I do not want to discuss this, because this is not the agenda we are discussing, because the closing accounting law is in dispute. However, I have to mention that the flexible retirement option has been abolished by the Orbán government in a rapid manner, there is no possibility now for either a advanced old-age pension or a reduced amount of early retirement pension, early retirement pensions have been abolished, the retirement pension has been abolished by another law, and Hungary is the only country with no invalidity or accident disability pension to be ashamed of the world. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] I have to admit that there is a measure that has not necessarily been left in the pension system, such as the artistic pension, because so few have already taken advantage of it that their retirement could be resolved from another aspect. In fact, two years ago, the government took such action in the time of Minister Balog, and it could be supported. We agreed with him ourselves. Now, the reason I'm just here is because in a recent response to an interpellation, perhaps, the wallet mentioned how few people receive the smallest retirement pension of HUF 28 500. I think maybe 100 or 102 people in the last year have been assigned that amount. That's not what this is about. I think it's a principle. This is about the fact that today there are nearly 20,000 people in Hungary whose pension or pension benefits are less than HUF 30,000. 30,000 forints. There are nearly 20,000 people like that. I checked that there are 590 thousand between 50 and 100 thousand forints, there are 1 million 172 thousand people whose pension is between 100 and 200 thousand forints, between 200 and 300 thousand forints there are 187 thousand people's pensions, between 300 and 400 thousand they have 23 thousand and over 500 thousand forints. It's very interesting that the 700-800 could be searched, and there the machine turned 27, so to speak, in Pest's slang. But please, when you look at the top10, it's about over 2 million forints, the average of the pensioner with the highest 10 pensioners, 2 million forints and 15,000 forints. It is not difficult to calculate that there are millions of HUF pensions here. But why is that? Because the ceiling was abolished years ago. And that again distorts the proportions that we had in the past. [[14.10]] After all, there was a contribution ceiling years ago, the limit above which the income had not been taken into account and no contributions had to be paid, but there were no millions of HUF pensions in return. I think that this is the chimborasso of injustice, that, while there has not been a single penny increase in the minimum amount of old-age pension for eight years, while the abolition of the contribution ceiling has given us the opportunity to have several million forints' pensions when we know that there is a professional organisation, a civil society organisation that does the minimum living in Hungary instead of the Hungarian Government Statistical Office, and we know that about two thirds of pensioners do not receive the pension, or about two thirds of those who do not receive the average pension, have a pension below average, and we also know that in the society of the elderly, in the society of pensioners, one third of pensioners live below the pension minimum. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-17-62	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has just submitted a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2018-10-17-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since this is what Mr Lajos Korózs said, and because he has indeed appeared in several places in the press, primarily on false news portals on the left, I would like to quote a sentence, even two sentences. Mr Korózs also said that what we have read many times in today's press is that there would have been an increase in the number and proportion of children living in poverty. This is sought to be based on different international comparisons, in particular Eurostat data. I would like to quote two sentences from the Hungarian research carried out on the basis of Eurostat methodology, I would quote literally:. If you look at the different age groups and how the proportion of people living in poverty changes, the greatest improvement in age groups has occurred in the situation of the under-18 age group, with the percentage of income poor among them falling by 5.1 percentage points in one year. Among households with children, the proportion of people living below the poverty line decreased by 3.5 percentage points. So these international statements, drawn up on the basis of Eurostat data, say exactly the opposite of what Congressman Korózs has said here in Parliament and what we read in the Hungarian press today, because of the fact that the situation of children and families with children has improved the most among the groups threatened with poverty and social exclusion. The situation of other groups has improved, but the situation of families with children has improved to the greatest extent. So if you're talking about growing child poverty, I don't know what data you're doing this on, because what you're referring to here I read you the exact opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-17-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm now giving the floor to Congressman Dezső Liberty in two minutes.
u2018-10-17-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member Tilki's earlier two minutes, in which he said that Mr XIII was a member of the Parliament. As a district man, I see the world quite differently than he sees it, which is true, true, I see the world differently than he does. But you must also see that what has happened in the last 20 years is the XIII. in the district, and which international real estate development organization has considered exemplary and acknowledged with a prize, so that's in this XIII. It was in the district, it didn't happen on its own. It's a lot of work and a lot of work. I, for example, am proud to have been the mayor of this policy for eight years. In his comments, he also mentioned the poverty on the Tower wand and the extremely weak health care that people live in. I would like to tell him that it would be worth considering that what was left at the end of the year is 215 billion forints, surely it should have been given where it was given during that period. Remember, the churches got it, they turned it into a real estate development. Speaking of XIII. We're in the district, I know that XIII. Local governments bought CT and MR machines from their own sources in the district to improve the care of the population, but the state does not finance it, it also has to be done from its own resources. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-17-66	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa in two minutes.
u2018-10-17-67	Mr President, Dear House, In the course of today's debate, it has already been mentioned that in 2017 there was some HUF 110 billion less corporate tax revenue than foreseen. Obviously, this is largely due to the undue advantage of this government to multi-company companies. But I would also like to note that if last year all corporate taxes had not been HUF 625 billion, but, let's say, 100-150 billion more, what could have been done for Hungarian businesses, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, taking advantage of the fact that one of the most prepared state ministers of the government is involved in this debate in a meaningful way, it provides meaningful answers. I would like to ask your opinion on whether they have in their action programme a draft which favours Hungarian entrepreneurs and simplifies their business, since the tax burden on Hungarian small businesses has actually been reduced by only a few percentage points since 2010. I must say, this is indeed a cosmetic reduction. I would like to know if Hungarian companies will be able to obtain facilitations and administrative facilitations in the near future in connection with the registration and establishment of the site. I also consider it very important to broaden the possibility of using mobile phones to the widest possible extent. I would also like to say that there has been a meaningful professional debate about whether, in the first year of the Hungarian small businesses, their contributions may be reduced by the Government of Hungary or, where appropriate, by a single decision of the Parliament, this can be made payable later, and in extreme cases it may be released. However, the professional debate on this should at least be opened, while maintaining that strategic contracts with multi-company companies should be renegotiated, in which it is necessary to ensure that wages are caught up at least slowly and that the resources released should clearly be used to increase micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Jobbik faction can't and won't let go of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-68	Thank you, Congressman. Now we are going back to normal time-frame speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2018-10-17-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The proposal to close the 2015 central budget is good to see what has happened and to get a look back, a feedback on the year in which this amount, taxpayers' money and any other available resources have been spent. So it shows a vision of the processes that have taken place in that year and how well the planning has been in the processes linked to individual public finances and in certain sectors, whether it be education, health, defence, anything else, that is, any chapter that is part of the central budget. Obviously, I was interested in health care, and I was interested in it, or was the first such hypothesis, to which I was looking for the answer, that at the time when we formulated the criticism when planning the budget and discussing the budget proposal that came here, we were right to make critical observations, i.e. whether we correctly pointed out, where appropriate, to areas with underfunded or higher costs, which the government treated with less costly costs, and I noticed with the year-on-year adjustment, so in terms of the planned and achieved figures, that this criticism was correct. This is not only the merit of Jobbik or even Jobbik, but also the merit of the profession, as they were the first ones to say that, in terms of health care, there was an under-planning either for the E Fund or for health institutions. It's nothing new, by the way. Health care is usually underdesigned, not only by the Hungarian government, but also by all the institutions that prepare the budget, the Parliament, anyone who deals with health costs, because there are two things behind the escalating costs and two huge forces. One is the continuous development of technology and the constant intensive demand for technology in the field of health, healing and care, and the other is the pressure of an ageing society. This means, on the one hand, that the larger the population, the more people in a life situation that is forced to use more and more health services, will result in an increasing cost. This is, however, relatively difficult to calculate, even if significant data are available, either through Eurostat, OECD, but it is very difficult to guess whether it is through extrapolation of data where it runs or what costs may be. [[14.20]] However, we can always find certain crutches, a certain base. We always look at the health section of the Hungarian budget and we use the criticism of what European average it is missing, and the average it is missing from the neighbouring countries. This is expressed or always measured in terms of expenditure related to GDP. In this, it is always clear that the Hungarian budget is one behind, and many countries have a similar problem or similar talent, whether it is the Czechs, Slovakia, with similar mortality and morbidity indicators, and we have a much similar social background, and we are historically very similar. Obviously, it would not be right to compare ourselves to Portugal or Austria in this, but let's say, Czech or even Slovak, but we can also look at Romanian data, they are a good base. When you look at this, you can tell that there's always been an under-planning in health care, too. But we can really see how much correction or addition was needed from the central budget expenditure on the E-Fund and health services, because it is immediately reflected in the E-Fund, because the design was HUF 2059 billion in planning and it had to be adjusted by a good 200 billion in the course of the year. By the way, I think in the text part it was a structure support and a dental grant. I think it includes the distribution of the cashier's remains at the end of the year, but it is likely to include the management of hospital debt, so the amounts distributed and the amounts that need to be newly channeled due to underdesign have been very diverse. But one thing he must have shown is that health care is typically not only under-planned, but also under-funded. The other very interesting volume, which can be read from it, is still the excess of hospital care. This is a constant criticism of the Hungarian health issue that the financing of hospitals is significantly greater than it should be. On the one hand, because somewhere the Hungarian people's spirit is used to this, and the physical structure of our health system is usually related to hospitals and typically small-scale hospitals. For this reason, this hospital overweight is an even greater burden on the health budget, since we can see that the institutions themselves, many of them are objective, others are subjective, but are constantly in debt. I think it is a recurring element every year, and both ministers of state are sure to see the need for a very serious annual correction to deal with overdue debts, with very serious sums to be spent by the government. There are two options here, or you can always back-finance it, or you can put an original plan on the table that allows hospitals to keep pretty much the budget that was meant for them. Well, this year, too, and the 2017 budget closure shows that we haven't really been able to plan what the hospitals came out of. By the way, nearly 70 percent of our health expenses go to hospital care and related health care. Another interesting trend, which has been drawn out of it, and this is related to hospital spending or using hospital money, is that when you look at the daily statement of the central account and the E-Basic, you have a daily breakdown of how many hundred million forints have been paid out of the E-Basic, a very interesting trend emerges. While in the first month, so in January, when we cannot say that it would otherwise be a disease-free period, and even at the beginning of the year, it is very much a burden on households, with epidemics and other diseases at the beginning of the year, we would rather say that there will be greater expenditure in the daily accounts in health care, but in the first month, so in January on average, the expenditure will be HUF 100 million/day, so it will go up to HUF 218 million/day in December. There are two things behind this. On the one hand, the whole year's disease distribution is so bad, or it's about the institutions starting to spawn from existing sources at the end of the year. So, basically, they're pre-loading, they're calling, they're snooping, they're snooping. Now, far be it from me to blame the head of the institution, because everyone is working with the material they get, trying to make the most of it, so if they're offered something small, they'll obviously swim the frame nicely at the end of the year and draw as much as they can get. So this is a smart and good feedback, an ex-post analysis of what the government might need to plan differently in the coming budgets, and how it can be avoided. What is important and I think it is worth mentioning is that we are always debating how much we have spent on public health expenditure. Here, GDP is defined as a proportion of the total national product, and an interesting figure is that, although every year the government says that GDP-related expenditure has increased, I would draw the attention of those here in relation to funding to two dimensions: for example, if you look at the functional balance of the issue of central subsystems, you will see that in 2016 the money spent on healthcare was 4.1 percent of GDP-related expenditure, only 4 percent in 2017. So we have seen a small, but reduced, despite the fact that, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we are talking about a technology-intensive health care system facing an ageing society and counting costs. But we see the same thing when we look at GDP-based expenditure on the basis of a functional balance sheet at the level of public finances. Here in 2016 the calculation and calculation of the closing account showed 4.3 percent, and in 2017 we are at the same 4.3 percent. In fact, this is a problem because the constant trend is that public spending in healthcare should not be kept or reduced, but should be increased at a good pace and at a relatively high rate, and, if possible, Hungary should approach the EU average. Of course, you can't spend endlessly, because obviously everyone knows that after a while, no matter how much you spend on health services, whether they are publicly funded or out of your own pocket, it doesn't give you any more value or it won't bring you greater health benefits. The United States is perhaps one example of this, where it is relatively high, perhaps almost three times higher than in Hungary, although it is true that public expenditure is compared with total expenditure here, but there is a significantly larger expenditure, but it does not effectively involve greater social security, better health indicators or better mortality or disease indicators. Overall, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the 2017 planning showed an under-planned health budget that the government was forced to correct in the course of the year on the basis of existing needs. It can also be shown that there is a constantly growing cost demand in the health sector. This is worth counting on in the long term, as it is a trend, which the government will have to follow in some way or correct in some way. It also shows that precisely this lack of planning has resulted in a response to a necessity in government policy, so there was not a planned extra spending, but a response to necessary crisis events that needed to be balanced as a firefighter's work. The lesson is, therefore, that the government must find a long-term financing leg in order to put most of our health care, which is financed by taxes and transferred from tax revenues, into some predictable financing path. On the other hand, there will be a constant need to deal with some kind of fire-fighting crisis framework, which can deal with crises that are currently emerging or occurring in emergency or general medical care or in any other area. On the other hand, there will be a need to reduce the difficulty of the hospital sector in some way, since while there is a 70 percent weight in the care system and there is an explosive cost increase, it seems that such a pantry effect is also occurring in these institutions, it seems that this is a leaking leak in the system and that much of the costs can also flow there. Overall, the criticism is expressed or the answer to the first hypothesis is how correct the criticism expressed by the opposition or the profession was. Dear Secretary of State, The criticism was justified when more people than the 2017 budget said that this money could not be of good quality and could not finance an advanced health care, and that much more should be spent on it. In that case, the opposition actually calculated between HUF 500 and HUF 600 billion. And life has shown that you had to add about HUF 220 billion to the health care system. So even if you don't believe that the opposition or the profession was right, we can say that one third of it was right, because you had to replace it, and you had to bow down to the law of health care. [[14.30]] It is far from my job to give good advice, obviously I am not in that position, but I would like to emphasise to Mr Secretary of State, or to say that when planning the next cycles, attention is paid to this, and the money is intended to do so as far as possible, so if there is a surplus that can be spent, believe me, healthcare will deliver the expected results. I also know that it is significantly easier to plan for reductions by, for example, HUF 60 billion and has much greater political benefits in terms of its political benefits, but believe me, 600 billion will have much greater benefits for society and for the future or for the future generation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-70	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2018-10-17-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to a number of things, but allow me to start with the comments by Mr László Lukács on health. The Member says that the government still has work to do in the area of health, and then I agree with that. I think that a lot has happened in recent years, including 2017, but there is no doubt that we still have tasks. On the other hand, with the findings on the number items for health care, allow me to argue. First of all, as far as the facts are concerned, what is the proportion of public health expenditure? According to the last 2016 international statistics available, the state did not spend the amount of public expenditure in proportion to GDP in 2016 as mentioned by the Member; according to OECD statistics, this was 5.2 percent. If we look at it internationally, it is lower than the OECD average, but if we look at regional countries, for example, it is significantly higher than the Poles. What happened from 16 to 17? That's what the accounts show. The amount of funding for healthcare increased, from HUF 1521 billion to HUF 1631 billion in 2017. This growth is not only nominally significant, but also real. And not only the real value of health expenditure has increased from 16 to 17 but health expenditure has also increased in comparison with 2010. There is one more thing worth looking at when we are looking at the health situation, namely: the dynamics I have already referred to. But let me use OECD data again, public data: between 2003 and 2009, health expenditure per capita fell in Hungary, one of the biggest increases between 2009 and 2016 between OECD Member States. Therefore, I must tell you frankly, I am confused about the comments on the left when it comes to spending health resources, and if we look at what the government has done since 2010 and what was done before 2010, these comments are difficult to grasp. I repeat, these are public expenditure; they are not private expenditure, they are public expenditure. And if we are at this point, let me, in addition to Deputy Minister Rétvári, respond to the comments on welfare expenditure and the disintegration of society. In the context of welfare expenditure, I believe that there should be a consensus between us that we should welcome the reduction in unemployment expenditure. This is what we see in all kinds of statistics, since the number of people employed is much higher. Mr Korózs, if we look at welfare expenditure in general and we talk about pensions, we should also say, as Mr President has said, that the increase in inflation on the basis of compulsory inflation was also two years due to the low level of inflation when inflation in the pension sector was in a negative range, resulting in a substantial increase in real income. Only on this branch was the real value of pensions increased by more than 10 percent. We also see from the account of 17 that the pension premium has been paid, which is not in this 10 percent number, and Elizabeth's voucher has been paid, which is not in this number. If we look at the numbers before 2010, I do not say, international statistics, we can recall years when the real value of pensions has decreased. [[Lajos Korózs: Year of crisis.]] Let me mention one more thing about welfare expenses. Perhaps Congressman Gyula Molnár said that this economic policy, which can be seen from the 2017 final report, has put those on top in a better position and those on the bottom in a more negative position; child poverty has also been said. I must be honest with you that the reason I do not understand these comments is because the 2017 final report shows that a very significant real income increase was made in the lowest income categories. We can remember that the six-year wage agreement was about a 15 percent minimum wage increase, a 25 percent guaranteed minimum wage increase. Let's see, let's say, families where parents earn little, what they looked like in 2017 regarding their income situation, what changes were there. Let me say, and again, not only in terms of the year 17 but also in terms of government economic policy in general, that the net real earnings of a person with two children, minimum wage, increased by 79,5 percent and increased by almost 80 percent between 2010 and 18 years. Congressman, I'm sorry, but between 2002 and 2010, that was minus 8.7 percent. I could tell you the other categories, the same thing: the income of those who are on minimum wage has increased significantly. Congressman also said that the family discount is only available for families with higher incomes. Then I would like to say in fact that if the income in a family is less than HUF 310 thousand, then three children can be granted a maximum tax reduction of HUF 99 thousand per month. If one of the two earners in a family is looking for a minimum wage and the other one is looking for a guaranteed minimum wage, they can use the family discount for three children. This shows that the family discount is absolutely available to the growing sections of society. Allow me to say one or two more words about further points. As regards fund insurance at the end of the year: Mr Reliable pointed out several times that these funds could have been used for other purposes. I would also like you to see the health and educational goals that he has highlighted in the end-of-year allocation. I mentioned, for example, that a large part of the church's funding went to the construction of preschools and schools in church reserve. And we also need to see that economic policy must pay attention to all areas. EU funds are not available for cultural, sporting or religious purposes. The government must also consider that there are areas where we can develop using EU funds, and there are areas where only national resources are available. I am pleased that in 2017 the government was able to provide additional resources in such areas by maintaining the stability of public finances. When we are criticising sports goals, but at the same time we are talking about health care, I think that we should once again have a consensus that the basic goal is to keep people from getting sick. We know what mortality indicators we have, Mr Luke referred to it, and we also know that these extremely negative mortality indicators are largely due to the way of life, largely due to the fact that we are not moving. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] If we can't change attitudes with everyday physical education, by generally supporting sport, by giving children role models among top athletes, we can't improve their health. Finally, allow me to respond to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's proposals on SMEs. I fully agree with Mr President that support for SMEs is of paramount importance both from an employment point of view and from the point of view that if we are to improve the productivity of the economy, this is the sector where we still need to make serious progress. Between government measures, if I mention only the kata and kiva taxes, allow me to say that there are two new taxes that were introduced during civil governance. In 2013, the average number of cadastral subjects was less than 61 thousand. In 2017, this was by far over 200,000, and in 2018 the figures so far account for a taxable person of over 270 thousand. In 2013, around 6400 companies made use of this option, which is now well above 28 thousand. Why? Because they were already favourable forms of taxation when they were introduced, and since then there have been countless changes. If I mention the kiva, the original tax rate, which was 16 per cent, has decreased to 14 per cent since 2017, on the basis of the evidence of the closing account before the Honourable Parliament, and I add that from 2018 only 13 per cent of the tax rate will apply. [[14.40]] I could also say the other changes, but given the time, I should also mention that the number of companies living with the kata, with this extremely favourable tax form, has also increased because the revenue threshold has increased from HUF 6 million to HUF 12 million from 2017 on the basis of the evidence of the closing account. So I think that the government has taken a number of measures to help small businesses, micro-enterprises, and these measures have met the needs of the businesses concerned. This is confirmed, I think, by increasing numbers statistics. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2018-10-17-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I always listen to him with a certain chill when he talks about the untenable things of the period before 2010. Why don't you just tell me why you didn't stand up and tell me you weren't doing this? ! Because he was sitting in the same place at the Treasury Department, putting together the budget. He knew exactly what time we were living, and he knew exactly what numbers to work on. He knew, for example, that, before 2010, let's say, until the 2008 crisis, that certain socialist government introduced the 13th month pension, and, by the way, until the global economic crisis forced him to do so, he gave money to people and did not build stadiums. [[Miklós Simon intervenes.]] Take care of your health, my fellow Member, I know the truth hurts, but that's the way it is. Yes, in the order of 100 billion dollars, a 13th month pension was paid by the government, and it didn't build idiotic stadiums that we'll be looking at in the next 5-10-20 years, which municipalities and what settlements will sustain it from when we hope that this fantastic national cooperation system will end as soon as possible. That's what the Secretary of State says, that sports and health are proud of... Well, what are you talking about? ! They send 522 billion forints to live sports through tao money. What does this have to do with public health? ? What does this have to do with mass sports? These stadiums don't see crowds even if they force people to go in there. He's playing football in front of empty stadiums with a couple of million-dollar paychecks in Mezőkövesden and Felcsú. And you're here to tell me that it's comparable how important it is that the government spent so much money on sports? Well, don't you know from the Treasury Department that those 522 billion forints were supposed to go into the budget, and they put it directly into these sports clubs that were either stolen or spent on something stupid? ! Or do they take ten million-dollar salaries from the well-known world-famous football players and other football players? ! And there's really nothing else wrong with this country? A lot of things you've said can be protected, Mr. Secretary of State, but at least don't go into something that the whole country knows is one of their biggest embarrassments at all. For what I wanted to say, I was just really upset about the previous statement by the Secretary of State to speak on behalf of the BM budget discharge, and I will now go through some of the major organs in the area to see what really happened; in case anyone else in the country is watching this, besides some of the Members sitting here. The year began with an important organizational transformation, because in 2017 the Judicial Expert and Research Institutes were merged with the Crime Expert and Research Institute under the control of the Ministry of Interior. This new name has changed surprisingly to the National Expert and Research Center. What is worth saying about them is that when the Prime Minister's family lost their phone at their wedding, they had to do a DNA test very quickly, I don't know, in the order of ten million, while, by the way, the police themselves and everyone else are complaining that unfortunately, in the case of real crimes, there is not much money available. Otherwise, the closing accounts do not account for the possibilities they have received in addition to the merger. Here's the National Defense Service, whose procedures have really grown fantastically. In 2017, 749 procedures were completed, while in 11 it was only 264. This organization was also able to conduct 833 reliability tests. This is the procedure by which you can provoke police officers and government officials, so to speak, to jump the rabbit out of the bush, but we do not see the effectiveness of this, but we do see the numbers. In addition, in the framework of the KÖFOP project, the organisation managed to obtain two polygraphs and 47 ciphers from EU funds. The only reason I'm talking about this is because it caused a relatively big scandal in the same period in the country, so that we at least know what one of the polygraphs was used for, since within the disaster protection, one of the firefighters or several others was attached to this machine. My fellow Members may remember all this because in an anonymous letter he was able to file a report on one of the mid-level leaders' internal corruption cases, both with the minister and with the director of disaster management. For the pleasure of this, within a few days, half the county fire department suddenly found itself in a room, where, in my opinion, the staff of the NVS have since, in my opinion, carried out a completely illegal polygraph investigation of them as alleged labour measures, which is simply amazing. And the reason I'm talking about this is because the National Defence Service, in fact, can be a wonder for everyone in the world, what a wide range of legal and physical tools it has to deal with corruption within the state. I don't know what they've been doing for the last eight years, I'll tell you the truth. And at some point, they may need to be heard here at the National Assembly, so how the National Defence Service staff spends their time when, in the last eight years, a gas mechanic has become the biggest oligarch in the country. How do you spend your time when the Hungarian banking system has been taken home by about three or four people and their family in the last few years? Where are they when named laws are born out of obvious political and economic interests in the Hungarian Parliament where politicians are sitting? Perhaps, if the National Defence Service wants to capture corruption in Hungary, it will not only have to prosecute police officers posted on the streets, but it would be good to find those decision-makers and the processes that will make the country slowly completely robbed. And let me add, it is an extraordinary news that your fellow Member Simonka has just initiated the suspension of his immunity in a criminal organisation because of a particularly high-value budget fraud. [[Intervention from the opposition: Automatically.]] I don't know, because it's not particularly public, but at least in recent times, cases like this have come to light in police or NAV investigations almost several times, as it turns out, even by accident, so I'd like to know who this National Defence Service is and why and how it's chasing if corruption isn't so much. I'm going to read about the CTU's procurements and their activities, because I think it's very instructive. In 2017, special attention was paid to the screening, monitoring of persons living in the territory of Hungary, the verification of the reality of their threats, the prevention and prevention of the execution of their activities, who could pose a threat to protected persons and continue to be here. In order to do this, there will also be a lot of procurement, and I will read this in a few minutes. I think it typically reaches a level in a country when the biggest problem of such an elite police organization with secret service tools is the continuous and constant monitoring of attacks on nice leaders. We know that many of these are such that, following the Facebook posts of certain people, officials will show up at their apartments the next day and start looking into them. If this is the biggest problem in Hungary, then we certainly do not see life in the same way, and, of course, it is one of their basic tasks, so they must do it. [[14.50]] But I'll tell you what a well-equipped team looks like. In 2017, the TEK fully equipped defuse complex was set up to be considered the world's leading bombing equipment at TEK. They were given light armored vehicles equipped with ladder systems to penetrate buildings or to overcome high structures. They also acquired an ambulance, high-tech armoured transport vehicles and a bus converted into a mobile operating control centre. In addition, they acquired bulletproof shields, bulletproof vests, bullet-proof helmets, anti-destructive devices and explosive charges in the framework of an amortization exchange. In the special equipment for operation support, surveillance drones, tactical robots, visual reconnaissance devices, hidden cameras, technical countermeasures were acquired by EDR radios. Night skills to develop night vision devices and thermal cameras were given to this body. High-performance analysis and database management software to support ongoing reconnaissance tasks if someone doesn't understand it, these are the ones that can then obtain all the information about any Hungarian citizen with about one click, additional technical tools for performing operational tasks. And the development of a security system for the Carmelite monastery. So everyone can rest assured that TEK is able to obtain information about anyone, at any time, by any means and by any means or by any means, whether covered or secretly, in Hungary today, they are equipped for this in a year. I am also addressing it because I promised in my previous comment that I would show what it is like to have a law enforcement or even defence organization installed. There you go. And compared to that, the fact that they can't write a half line about what happened in 2017, I think it's a very big difference. And I would like to say again to Mr Secretary of State as a positive example that even in the case of TEK, BM still provides us with 1519 staff members, the breakdowns of the stock on 1 January; that 127 persons were hired during the year; that 46 persons were decommissioned on the move; and that the average annual statistical number was 1368. The CTU's head count isn't top secret? The Hungarian Defense does? I think the minimum is that we must return to the defence chapter to ensure that the Hungarian Parliament can clearly see what is happening. About the execution of the sentence, very briefly, only that much has not happened, for example, from the nine promised new prisons 0, or zero, has started to be built ever since. In case my fellow Members do not know, there is a huge problem in the execution of sentences, in the Budapest and West Hungary penitentiaries, in executive institutions, the stock is so worn out, and there are so few of them that they are slowly unable to perform their basic tasks. You may not know this, but we are now talking about the fact that non-professional colleagues are assigned to various tasks, which, on the one hand, cuts the legal limit and, on the other hand, poses a huge security risk. And we still don't hear anything about the construction of nine new prisons. This is the area, ladies and gentlemen, where, if you do not pay overtime as of 1 January, it will collapse in concrete terms, and it can be said about the others. Even from the Constitutional Protection Office, it is worth noting that there is much to say about the demoralized fate of this organization, which should chase nasty foreign spies and watch over Hungary's national security, that in 2016 its number decreased by 115 to 1110 people.In 2017, 899 people were in fact, which means that the number of our secret servants decreased by about 20 percent over two years. It is clear that the confusion around this organization in recent years is manifest in this too, and we do not really understand the real reason for it. With regard to the Immigration Office, if there was anyone here from BM, I would try to find out again whether it is true that there is a complete government referral that this organization will be brought together with the police from 1 January or put into the police institution. I think in the midst of such a huge migration crisis that we are in, we should know whether the Immigration and Asylum Office will disappear or not in a few months' time and how they intend to conduct it. Finally, I would like to point out very strongly that, however much money has been spent on technical procurement, there is a huge problem among the stock. The information about mass disarmament that came out in the summer, not only would it have calmed down, but it is now every two days, every three days, that information will be sent to the press, or, obviously, to Members of Parliament, that the police will continue to discharge dozens of policemen on a daily basis. One of the reasons for this is obviously money and that their cash redemption can disappear, and the other could be part of another, possibly even half an hour's comment, of the mood that is throughout this country and in governance. There is a level, you know, my fellow Members, where money doesn't matter anymore, you put down your sarcasm. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-10-17-74	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2018-10-17-75	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by saying that I consider it unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament and the weight of the subject, to negotiate a bill, to deal with personal matters. But if Mr Harangozó is showing such interest in my person, let me mention that he surely knows that I started working at the Ministry of Finance in 1998 and if he knows what rules are in place for a man's entry, then he should know that I swore that I would serve the nation as best I could. And if you are so interested in my past, you know that this has been recognised by current leaders under different governments. If you investigate, you'll find out that they knew what a man I was, emotional, and I didn't make it a secret about where I voted every four years. [[Moore in the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] At the same time, I reassure the Member that I still consider professionalism to be important, and that if someone works at the Secretary of State that I lead, and otherwise tells me that he does not agree with the Government's affairs for this, and that he votes elsewhere, therefore, if he works in the best of his knowledge, he does not have to worry, because his job is safe. And I think it's a fair thing to have people working in the government who are committed to professionalism, who work to the best of their ability, and it's not based on different party views whether they can work or not. It's different when you're in a state leadership position, it's a completely different situation. But let me say, if I asked for a word, then I should not be dealing with this perhaps unworthy matter, but rather draw attention to the fact that I think that there is a meaningful link between a healthy lifestyle, exercise and our health situation. I don't say that. International research says that. [[To Dr. Tamás Bellozó, leaving the room:]] And although Congressman is leaving, I hope you can still hear me, I will send him the international statistics showing Hungarian mortality and behind these negative statistics. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] reasons. One important reason is the lack of exercise. I ask you, Congressman, to study this, too. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Why don't you do that, Mr. Secretary of State?]] And when we talk about our health situation, you should also consider what we are doing to make this society healthier. [[Lajos Rig: Cardio training, running... Dr. Tamás Bellozó leaves the Chamber.]] I accept that we still have responsibilities. And I think it's a sensible debate if we're discussing the means. But the fact that sport doesn't play a role in a healthy social state, I can't accept this conclusion or any such suggestion. Mr. Congressman, you mentioned various data on the internal affairs and defence wallets. Very briefly: I propose that the Member study the bill on which Parliament is debating. If you do this, I think you need to correct some of your claims; for example, that the number of people in the defence area is not known. The chapter volumes indicate exactly how the plan or fact figures evolved. As it also states, how defence expenditures have changed from 2016 to 17th. I'll tell you: HUF 342.6 billion in chapter expenditure increased from 2016 to HUF 459.2 billion. The congressman also claimed that most of the increase had been taken by personal payments. If the Member studies the closing report, he will see that the personal expenditure of nearly HUF 460 billion in 2017 was HUF 141 billion. And if you are studying this document, you can also learn what expenditure has been used for the purposes of the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence in relation to border protection, countering the threat of terrorism. [[15.00]] If the Member sees that there is no answer to something in this nearly ten thousand pages of document, then I can only say that he should look for the wallet with a specific question and, in accordance with the laws in force, we will provide the necessary information if these thousands of pages have not answered all the questions, as I see them. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2018-10-17-77	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that Mr Bence Rétvári is not here, because my criticism would be more relevant to him than to you, because we notice that this criticism has been the subject of our criticism for many years now that EMMI, this impotent golem, cannot stand up for sectoral interests, and that would include the issue of public education, one of our most important public affairs here in Hungary. Well, the numbers aren't worth arguing with, Mr. Secretary. I have carefully studied the annexes attached to the law. In 2016 there was an expenditure of HUF 1846 billion for educational activities and services, and in 2017 it was indeed more than HUF 2014 billion, so the increase was about HUF 168 billion. You, you said that earlier today, but you forgot to add that what you spent in this form on Hungarian education was in fact as much as the 2017 Mészáros família's property agreement. Then they forgot to add that in many cases there was nothing more than a sort of restoration here, because if we look back at the plan of Kálmán Széll, which took about HUF 100 billion from higher education between 2012 and 2014, then we recall Polónyi's research, according to which some 46 percent withdrawal from vocational training in Hungary was made, then we have to say that yes, there is something to replace. And where this area has come to be, let me say one more such number: in 2010, the number of people admitted to higher education was 114 thousand, which has now decreased to 85 thousand people and already for 2016. So if there's something to indicate the processes, for example, these numbers indicate them, and we, as opposition parties, will present them here, and we will read them on your head even if you don't like them. Because the picture you're drawing is very pink in many cases, the reality looks a little different in contrast; it could be said that as far as education is concerned in recent years, it is fire-fighting. In this form, if these numbers remain, we can or can set survival for the Hungarian school affairs as a goal, and as a fate, vegetation. That's all and no more, and since there's been a lot of numbers flying through the air today dressed in very grey packaging, let me color this palette a little bit. György Ránki has a children's opera, a new dress by King Pomade, based on Andersen. King Pomádé, we know that he was famous and notorious for his strange style of dress, and that his palanquins, his courtiers, dared not tell him the truth, applauded him for all his stupidity. The fact is that you have such a King of Pomade, and you do not dare to tell him what the great Hungarian obsession is we will do. King Pomade made him believe that that dress really existed, that the courtiers dared not say that the king was naked, because such a dress did not exist, and then someone warned him that this dress did not exist, and that the king was indeed naked. So that's why we're here, and whether you like it or not, you guys in the pro-government benches have to put up with this kind of criticism every now and then. Obviously, it can also be said that there was worse, if I think of my narrower Patria, Somogy County, the situation of education was worse there, the 17th century. In the century, we know exactly from the descriptions of the Jesuit mission, say, from Padre Horváth, there were times when the Turkish marauders killed the teachers and enslaved the students. Then we also know why Mihály Csokonai Vitez, who had been thrown into Somogyland in the year 1800, could ask the question: "The peasant of Somogy was the only man of the town." He has traveled through many settlements in our county, and he has seen how folk teachers live. And if it's Gárdonyi's Memorial Day today, let me remind you here, let me offer you the little novel "The Lantern" by Gardonyi. By the way, Gárdonyi lost his way to Somogy County, teaching a year in Karad near Andocs, this work was born of his experiences there, and his own experiences were painted by Ágoston Kovács, in his fate, through sensual examples of the situation of education in Hungary at that time. By the way, even in these deplorable conditions, it may have been better than it is now. We know from János Ember's 1886 work, The Financial Situation of the Hungarian Folk Teacher, that an elementary school teacher brought home about three times as much as a day laborer and a high school teacher six times as much, and if we try to translate this into current numbers, then let's take out the FEOR classification, of which 9331, this simple agricultural employment or occupation, pig feeder, herbalist, he also receives it, he must receive the net HUF 92 thousand per month at present. I wonder if an elementary school teacher will take home three times that amount, and a high school educator will take home six times that amount. Obviously not. And the fact is that during the period between the two world wars, it was better than now, because we know that in 1941 a high school teacher could bring home about 250 pengoes a month, then the number of days was 2 pengo, and the pre-retirement high school educator had almost 500 pengoes. So they ask for these rates, and then they sincerely say to the citizens in the eyes, how respected teachers, teachers and teachers in Hungary enjoy in different order. There would be a place to grow! Yes, we know that the question of money is a trivial question, but it cannot be avoided trivialism, because this issue must be addressed. Since the McKinsey report, we know precisely that the key actor in education is the teacher, and in this way the remuneration of the teacher is, on the one hand, a selection, motivational tool, and, on the other, a prestige factor, and, if we take these aspects into account, they are not in good shape, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow members of the Government. It is not by accident that the MTA General Assembly in May 2018 stated that the share of the educational area from the budget is not sufficient, so if the 2017 budget had been substantially positive in this area, then it would not have been stated by the MTA in May 2018; and it was also said that it was far from social needs. So it's no coincidence, once again, that if the EMMI, the Ministry of Human Capacities, is a kind of impotent golem, and he can't fight for what's going to happen in this area. Surely you have not heard from Benjamin Franklin the very wise saying that the greatest profit can be achieved by investing in learning, knowledge, because the most important factor in competitiveness is knowledge that will make people fit for the highest added value on the markets. Our public education is underfunded in this way, and the situation of teachers is not good. [[15.10]] Yes, I think it is likely that Mr. Secretary of State or, when he comes in, Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári will tell you what a huge teacher's wage increase has been made here. However, they forget to add that the projection fund has been separated from the minimum wage, and in this form they can shorten teachers, such as an average high school teacher, by up to HUF 100,000 per month. I think that's part of the whole picture. It's no coincidence that we're talking about a menacing shortage of teachers. Even though they deny it, we know that this phenomenon exists, and because of the ticking pension bomb, it is getting sharper, and this bomb is going to explode. By the way, you like to consider educators a kind of public-use supermen, a public-use ubermensch, who just works out of vocation and pulls the yoke. The fact is that this will not work in the long term, and in the deteriorating results, this will be seen in order. In 2010, 98 percent of 17 - year - olds were still sitting on the school bench. This dropped to 85 percent by 18 percent. I don't know how we'll be able to build a competitive country. And then: it's gotten better, I know, and then the answer is that we've just jumped up on the WEF rankings from the 60th place to some, but we're still uplifting in terms of regional states. Then it should be added that the proportion of schools teaching the majority of students with multiple disadvantages has also increased in Hungary. Exodus results are deteriorating, mobility channels have closed in Hungary. This educational system can only castrate in such a form and in such a situation of lack of resources. It doesn't compensate, but it's one of his basic tasks. Mr Secretary of State spoke about how the situation of families has changed. Let us add that for two adults and two children, the so-called social minimum last year meant that it took 341 thousand forints to achieve this minimum level. If this minimum level was not provided by that family, then it is possible to forget special lessons, private lessons and, where appropriate, catching up and moving on; of course, by building parallel school systems, and let's say, the Orbán, Tiborcz or even the Szabó family has the opportunity to send their children to private schools demanding millions of tuition fees. This is not a big problem for pro-government politicians. However, national cohesion will be destroyed, as there are terrible differences, social layers and, by the way, school types, as well as certain territorial units in the country. Let me tell you another song like that. Say, according to PISA surveys, there is a difference of 120 points between the indicators of young people in the first quintile and the fifth quintile. That's three years, three years. Shocking disproportion! And all this is achieved on the basis of sociocultural status, socioeconomic status, this terrible difference. It is not up to the child to say it in English, but the education system should compensate for it; but once again, in such a lack of resources, this school system will not be able to do so. And if you were right, Secretary of State, Szabó Tünde, when you said that the future will be like today's school, then we have to admit that we are looking at a rather terrible future here. [[György Szilágyi: Yes!]] The Commissioner for Education has recently presented his report on the year 17 to us. This clearly shows that there are very serious problems with education, that under-financing is quite clear, that it shows how far the care of children with different disabilities is not achieved in this system. Teachers and educators should also be freed from the duties of non-peda-peda-peda-peda-educators, but this would require a lot of professionals and such pedagogical assistants, so it should be said that more money is involved in the system. When we said 'no' to the '17 budget,' we did it because we didn't see that the involvement of more professionals could take place in Hungary in this way. Mr. Secretary, my time in this round is over, but I suspect I'll be speaking to you. Thank you for your patience, your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-78	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy for a two-minute comment.
u2018-10-17-79	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I'd like to get back to sports for a while. Although Mr Harangozó did not wait for the answer after his speech, he left the room, but if you will allow it, it is really very short if you are listening. I think that the government has achieved its goal, as the number of certified athletes has increased from 242 thousand to 501,000 by 2017. As strange as it sounds, I think it's a very big deal. If you look at sight sports, that's 155,000 people. If I can still bore you with numbers, the number of people who play sports in handballs has increased from 24,000 to 65 600. In basketball from 24 600 to 59 600, in football from 158 600 to 249 600, in volleyball from 1900 to 11 600, in hockey from 2300 to more than 5 thousand, in waterball from 4200 to 6700; and many facilities have managed to renew, many dozen facilities. And speaking of tao, I'd like to tell you that you've been able to get it down in over a thousand places, to create sports clubs who can farm with tao money. This represents a total of 1000 development sites, and there is an association in the territory of every third municipality who has been able to use these funds for the benefit of the public: for the benefit of our children and for the benefit of those who deal with our children, for example. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-17-80	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for a two-minute comment.
u2018-10-17-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to say anything, but since you've mixed up sports here and brought me numbers like this, Congressman, the numbers you've said are, like, cosmetic numbers. A lot of people, a lot of children, are justified by different sports associations only to be able to vary with the Tao, so that after the tao they can get the discounts they need. Once. Second of all, certified athletes wouldn't count. When the Tao was introduced, that was not the main argument for you, but for as many people as possible to play sports in recreational sports. In primary schools, everyday physical education would have been about children liking sport. You have also ruined this, because not only do children want sport when there is no proper environment, but they are starting to resist sport more and more. And in an environment where you, Congressman, have spent a great deal of hundreds of billions on visual stadium investments in an environment where István Garancsi, who flies Viktor Orbán for free, has built a sports hall for 25 billion, do you know what HUF 25 billion means? Build a sports hall out of 25 billion? ! The Alien Road Stadium was about 22 billion! Tell me, what costs 25 billion in a sports hall? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] How can a sports hall be built in Hungary for 25 billion when another sports hall is built out of 3.5 billion? ! Do you know what these differences are? The Tao, as it is, is used by you to carry out various acts of corruption and take it away from sport. We wouldn't have a problem if sports got the money we're supposed to be spending on Tao through the lake. But it's not the sport that gets it. You get a certain percentage of it, and the rest are handed back to themselves, and they overpriced, and they write down these manipulated statistics so that they can pick up after the kids, and they can pick up the money for the supposedly certified sports kids. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Here, my fellow Member, who says that if these figures were true, the Hungarian sports medical network would not be able to provide access to these children. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then these kids should be playing sports without a sports doctor's certificate! Congressman, what you just said is a complete lie. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! KO!]]
u2018-10-17-82	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskasi in a normal time frame. [[15.20]]
u2018-10-17-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was also reminded of a quote, perhaps the most famous quote of Orwell's Animal Farm when I opened this bill; that all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. I would like to explain why I believe that this is true in the course of the debate on this accounts. I would like to refer back to what my fellow Member from Harghita was pressing this morning about a certain ten commandments, not the ten commandments of the Bible, but the ten commandments of saving. He said they had to be respected. As an accounting expert, I believe that accounting standards must be complied with by management organisations and the provisions of the Public Finance Act by budgetary bodies and, with this, by the central budget. I say this because the accounting principles that you expect businesses to comply with are nine accounting principles. One of these, No 5, is the principle of consistency, which says that a report must be comparable and that accounting should be kept on this basis. The same is true of Article 4 of the Public Finance Act. It is in paragraph 4 of this Article. I would like to read it because I believe that this is extremely important in today's debate. Reporting shall ensure that the total amount of all revenue and expenditure is recorded in a comparable manner between budgetary years. I opened this bill, and I didn't see what the plan was. There is a number, the number of completion, a set of billions of forints, but we really don't see what the previous numbers were. I looked back at what happened in the previous years when the 2017 closing report was made. Not the bill, the additional volume, but I will tell you, Mr. Secretary, why I say it. I know you're on the Treasury website, but I think it's important for information and information to be included in the bill itself. There's a column number in the bill, fulfillment. At least what I got, what I downloaded from the website, there's numbers in that column. Strangely enough, for the 2010-16 accounts, we found how much the draft was for the given year and how much of it was fulfilled. But I am not surprised that this has changed this year, because I would like to highlight only one: for other accumulation expenses, the Prime Minister's Office you have designed HUF 21.5 million, whereas the performance was HUF 5 billion 991 million, 279 times more than what was planned. If the numbers and comparability were to prevail next to him, if I just opened the bill and stopped bugging the Treasury website, then this is an obvious number that absolutely needs to be explained. But it's not the only one with that degree of deviation. I see you're looking at the numbers, Mr. Secretary. This is only possible if we look at the original at the 2017 budget and then we only know the bill. So when businesses are expected to have comparable data and to provide information to users, I think that this should also come out from the bill on the implementation of the budget, and not just between the tens of thousands of pages, because it is enough to look at these 200 pages. If I say that there was a 279-fold increase in spending on this line, then allow me to highlight some counterexamples. For example, only 46 percent of the budget was used in the fight against ragweed. I agreed with the agricultural policyr, who said that there was a very big problem due to the spread of ragweed in Hungary, and it would have been good if they had spent more on this. I ask you, if we're planning money, why can't we spend it? Well, they're also a health hazard. It's in everyone's best interest to spend it on these. But the same is the support for state defense, where only 66 percent of the money was spent. In addition to all this, I believe that the biggest problem that many people have already talked about is competitiveness. The National Research, Development and Innovation Office accounted for only 18% of its investments. Only 18% of what you have planned for the 2017 budget has been achieved. I ask you, is this how we want to be competitive? Well, the most important thing is that innovation, scientific research, and all of this is done, because that's how we can move forward. Another data on comparability: I wanted to see that the purchase of real estate related to the placement of ministries in the Castle Quarter, if I only look at the bill and not the tens of thousands of pages of annexes, was completed by HUF 10 billion 389 million in this bill. But if I look at the original budget, there's no detail on this line. So again, a normal citizen who doesn't know what's going on tomorrow, and he's only looking at the bill, can't compare the percentage that was achieved, whether it was overspending or not. I think comparability is important. I would expect an answer that if 2010 to 2016 was good with the original allocation figures, then why are they not there now at the 2017 accounts. Since I think I have already said everything about comparability and I very much hope that it will be able to give a concrete answer to this, I would also like to draw attention to another problem. The starting work programme spent HUF 52 billion instead of 26 billion, which is a HUF 26 billion surplus. It is not a problem, it is very good that public employment has been developed to invest in stockpiling and new assets have been purchased. But the thing is, there's gonna be no more community service in this country. Local authorities are constantly confronted with the fact that they have invented, for example, the creation of a stone or the creation of an agricultural network or the purchase of fruit and equipment, but there will be no one to use it. In 2017, they spent 26 billion forints more on this program, only I think that when planning, these aspects should be taken into account. Because it is very important that we do not just squander it, because we see that the greatest source of income is tax revenues, i.e. public money is managed, and that these should be paid gradually. The 2019 budget has already been adopted, and I agree with the voice of other opposition representatives that it is unfortunate that, before we know the figures for the previous year, we will already adopt the next budget, but I hope that these aspects will be taken into account in the planning of 2020. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer.
u2018-10-17-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The legality of the discharge bill before you has been stated by the State Audit Office and stated that the bill submitted complies with the requirements of the Public Finance Act. Congresswoman is looking for why the bill does not contain the facts of the previous year, but she also acknowledged that the thousands of pages of documents submitted by the Government detailing the completion of the previous year, including what the original estimate was, which was accepted by the Parliament, but I would add, even what amendment was made in the scope of law, government powers, chapter powers, and what fulfillment was achieved. There's one important thing I need to mention. From 2017 onwards, the government has changed to a new presentation, which, in our opinion, better demonstrates economic policy directions, namely: a zero budget for operational purposes, the deficit can arise from accumulation. This approach required a new structure from the budget, as we can see that now expenditure is broken down in separate columns. For the sake of clarity and acceptance, we have moved on to the solution of presenting in various tables the evolution of the facts of 2017 and the comparison with the previous years, just as Congresswoman said, that the main volume itself is part of the bill, which she said if I wrote it right, that it is difficult to see the two hundred pages, so that it does not take longer. But anyone who cares about the information will find it in the supplementary documents. [[15.30]] Let me respond to two more things. I absolutely agree with that, and I think everyone agrees that we have a task in terms of our competitiveness and innovation. I think it is symbolic, and the symbol goes beyond the fact that the structure of the government changed after 2018, a separate portfolio deals with innovation issues. A Competitiveness Council was set up before the 2018 elections, and we will do everything we can to make the economy more competitive. I think that this competitiveness and productivity is affected by the fact that more and more people today find their calculation not in public work, but in the private sector. We know that the productivity of the private sector is much higher than that of public work, which is also due to the fact that many people have had to get used to living from work instead of aid, getting up and working in the morning. After this socialization activity, there are many who are grateful to God, now they find their calculation in the primary competitive market rather than in public works. I think that's a positive thing. If, on the other hand, we can improve productivity within public work by, for example, buying machines and reducing the amount of work, then we can again talk about an area where productivity can be improved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-17-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs for a two-minute comment.
u2018-10-17-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So underfunded public education will continue to lead to socially polarised and selective schooling in Hungary and poor schooling in its performance. When I say that he is weak in his performance, I do not come up with the Finnish example, but I would like to mention the Polish example as an add-on. In 2000, according to PISA surveys, Poland was still behind Hungary, but by 2015 we will have 17 seats ahead of us. Amazing! Here's the result of the eight years and the eight years before that! And one more thing about Gárdonyi Memorial Day. 50 years ago, Zoltán Várkonyi's immortal masterpiece, the film version of the Egri stars, was presented. We have to say that almost never since there has been a movie in Hungary, an all-night movie that shows the daring times of our heroic past, which could be set as an example. Elemér Hankiss had a book,, The Human Adventure, and this is a chapter, a policy of guilt, where it was very plastically highlighted how the dictatorships were able to apply the guilt policy in a depraved way. The Rákosi have done this in Hungary, who said that 9 million fascists cannot build communism here. The fact is that this,, dare to be small, has remained the same in Hungary ever since. Interestingly, the casino papa or casino papa, Andy Vajna's film fund, was able to give almost HUF 1 billion to the miserable Guard movie "Vesztettek"; it was full of political references. There is still no Hungarian historical film that we can show young people, families can watch together and say that we are proud of our Hungarianness. This is also a big mistake in the budget of the last few years. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-88	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Karpa in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-17-89	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps there was little mention of the government's home creation lines during the closing debate, although some pro-government MEPs were fond of saying how far they were overachiever on the front of home creation. I have in front of me today's copy of the Hungarian Times of Lying Factory. Even in this House there was not such a fidesz representative, State Secretary, Minister, anyone who would have told us what kind of transfer they were thinking when they bullied the state aid leg of housing savings, but a single word... [[To Zoltán Fenyvesi:]] Don't grin, because that's right; if you can argue with him, press a button, I'm interested in your opinion. I'm curious about where the resources we're taking from here would be transferred. Press the button, be braver. Shouting out is easy, it's a fidesz genre, as it turns out in 2010. If you were a little braver, you would press that button and add your opinion if you had your own opinion on this. But apparently they cannot give a reasonable answer that while this amount is being taken away from Hungarian people, they are taking away from the Hungarian future, what is to redistribute the support of the population and the support of the apartment. Where? What target group? In what form? What construction? Where do these amounts go? Let's think about what this budget has done, which we are discussing with the Hungarian people. Let's start with the positive part, it'll be shorter, I won't tell you a secret. In terms of CSOK, I particularly sympathize with the fact that besides 10+10, they can benefit a little more widely, typically more fortunate Hungarian social classes, i.e. up from the upper middle class. That's why I find the fidesz justification that they're trying to move people to the CSOK instead of the house savings a bit odd. After all, the CSOK is typically used by our fellow countrymen living in large cities and earning significantly more than average. If you look at the price and range of the family houses and properties that come with or have access to 10+10, you can see that the initial starting price of the apartment is about HUF 40-50 million, with which there is a good chance that you can use this form of support. The house savings were exactly what it meant to be able to collect a part of the long-term borrowing. At the moment, even those who have been able to do so will not be able to participate in this construction of the CSOK. And if the master plan is ready to transfer the resources that are released to what, please let us know, not only with us, but also with the wider public. In the meantime, we can only start from what's on the paper, what's in front of us. And here, on the home-building front, the government is a disgrace. As far as Kafeteria is concerned, the facility to support housing has essentially been abolished and terminated; in terms of housing savings, the state aid and the state leg have been abolished and driven out of the system in two days; the reduced VAT rate for new-built apartments is also abolished, so here another negative message is given to the market that was about to find itself a little bit. I was very pleased that the number of newly built properties, at least the number of permits issued, had started to increase clearly. Now, this growth path is actually frozen, stopped, and the whole market is frozen with this. And if you add that there's no rental program, but there's rents of between 130 and 150 grand, then you can see that the government moves like a lame duck. They know this problem, they see it, Mr Secretary of State sees it, I see it, my fellow Members see that rents in large cities are priceless. I therefore do not understand why the government does not want to intervene when there is a clear supply shortage in this market. Mr. Secretary of State knows, as we have had more discussions about this, that Airbnb and other community accommodation-sharing portals have taken out more property from the Budapest market than a lot of overseas or US cities, much bigger than Budapest. Well, it's natural for all of this to have a price drive. While the number of newly built properties transferred does not allow for a 100-year exchange of real estate. So both on the front of the rentals and on the front of the new builders there is a clear shortage. In addition, the form of cafeteria support for mobility will be dismantled, the state aid leg of the housing savings will be removed and this market will be frozen by introducing the preferential rate of housing VAT. In these circumstances, talking about a home-building boom is quite simply irresponsible. Mr. Secretary. One more question, which will also apply to 2017 but also to the 16th, since this line can be found in the budget at that time;, 17 is our last available data. The Government of Hungary spends 67 billion forints on government propaganda, while the total amount of housing savings is 62 billion, which you are now taking away. So they spent more on government communication, advertising themselves, than they are now taking away from the Hungarian people. These are pretty objective numbers, they're in the drafts. Otherwise, we can argue whether a series is now covered by government communication or not, but the volume is certainly correct in that this government spends more on its own advertising than it would otherwise be important to take it away from young Hungarians in two days. By the way, there is a somewhat narrowing interpretation of the young people, as there are many of our retired countrymen who also have housing goals. So far, similar saving methods and State aid have brought them real proximity to renovating their homes and, where appropriate, expanding their homes. This opportunity now seems to be lost in a completely incomprehensible way. [[15.40]] We also see that I should also be allowed to respond to a question, with regard to the private sector and public work, we agree with Mr State Secretary that the productivity and efficiency of the private sector are also higher, obviously than that of public employment. We also agree that our largest reserve of competition is to improve the productivity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because there is a clear gap both at regional level and perhaps not to measure ourselves to the Western sample for the time being, because we have received a good 40 years of communism, which has very strongly established these competitive disadvantages, both in terms of market and economic structure and other factors. But we must clearly state that the return rate from the public work front to the primary market, which the government shows, is clearly limited. I myself am pleased that if our Hungarian compatriots do not sit at home, but, where appropriate, participate in public employment on their own initiative, and consider this to be better than the previous state, I do not argue with this, but that we can only lead every fifth person back, which is not enough for me because we can see urban models where profit-making enterprises have been created with the involvement of public employment, and using these profit-making companies as a national model, I think this 19-20 percent rate would be at least doubled. At the same time, where I find clear abuse, it is the number of new jobs allegedly created within the private sector, since one of the most strange methods of measuring KSH is allowing for distortion of facts. I do not want to blame the experts of KSH, because there are rules and laws in place to limit their margin of manoeuvre, but the fact that a person who works only one hour a month may appear in labour market statistics, so whatever form he appears in employment and is on the line with a secretary of state, he is on the same line with a vegetable farmer, a nurse, clearly makes it impossible to accurately estimate the data. So I think it's a statistical measurement error, something that needs to be changed. At the same time, it is a fact that three social groups are included in the active labour market, which I think should be included in a separate line. On the one hand, even socialist governments, whose economic policies repel me, have not allowed themselves to report student workers to full-fledged workers. Not because it would not be full-fledged Hungarian people, but obviously they are at the stage of employment, which also carries a socialisation dimension, including them in the workforce by tens of thousands, at least that is a distortion of data. We have already argued today that reporting on some of our fellow countrymen working abroad is also an opportunity to manipulate data, and these people are obviously not primarily present on the Hungarian market at the level of consumption. Their referrals are important to the Hungarian national economy, but we are talking about a volume of credit transfers of about the same magnitude as we spend on the interest burden of public debt on an annual basis, but it is not healthy to build a national economy on such legs, among other things. And here, thirdly, the public workers show up. So to open up a new public employment system, it cannot be considered complete by creating new jobs on the market. In this way, I am very interested in a purified statistical series, which has been able to demonstrate the performance of the Orbán governments since 2010 in a way that is free from all these anomalies. Believe me, Mr Secretary, I am not going to have it taken away if the outcome and some of the conclusions are positive, but these data sets cannot draw these conclusions. Therefore, I would like to commend the government, although I do not believe that the government needs this, but they have finally completed the fact that it is being mantrapped from month to month, that 500 or 520,000 new jobs have been created, because they too may see that, on the basis of the distortion of these three factors, this figure does not say anything about the real performance of the Hungarian economy. On the home-creation front, I'd like you all to think about the world outside the CSOK, Mr. Secretary. The CSOK could also be extended for example in the case of renovation of apartments, a preferential loan could be granted to all interested parties in the event that, let's say, renovation involves at least one energy level leap, and it is obvious that a similar solution or extension would be required for used properties as well. I would like to remind you that Jobbik's rental program, which we submit to every budget proposal, would create between 5 and 10 thousand apartments per year with qualified Hungarian contractors. All this could be done very effectively in the form of brownfield investments, even where now Fidesz-close entrepreneurs want to build skyscrapers and residential parks. I would also like to say that, since we are talking about a rental system, even though it would be half as well as a third of the current market price, these budget forints will fly back to the budget along such a multiplier effect, with a return of about four to six years. I would also like to say that the starting cost of this would be somewhere between HUF 60 and 100 billion in the first year. This is obviously dependent on market developments, but we are talking about an amount of the same magnitude as in the case of housing savings, as in the case of government communication, so there would be plenty in the budget of the background and the reserve that would allow room for a similar programme. We want the government to start this on its own, obviously we will consider it our own success, but we will rejoice with those who want to build this country, want to serve it, and I say that building the country, building the future, cannot be imagined without the support of young people and representing their interests. That is why I would like to ask you, and I call on you, to open a substantive debate on housing poverty, including the missing rental scheme and the sources from which it is possible to carry all these programming points through. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-90	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2018-10-17-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I'll be very brief, I'll respond to three points. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke about government consultation and communication expenditure. A third of the amount mentioned by the Member is spent on government consultation and communication, according to the closing accounts. The second thing is labour market statistics: each Member State must measure the number of employees and employees according to a common EU methodology. In this respect, the positive data in Hungary and the positive change seen since 2010 do not result from a change in methodology, not from special accounts in Hungary, but from objective increases in employment according to the rules that all Member States have to comply with. I would add that not only the employment rate of the EU Member States has improved to one of the greatest levels since 2010, but also the activity rate. I recall that Hungary is among the two countries that achieved the best improvement and the greatest improvement. The third thing is home creation. As said yesterday in the statement by Deputy Minister Tállai, the Government is always examining what changes are needed in the support programme for home creation in order to achieve as much as possible the achievement of demographic change and support for economic growth, so I can say from this point of view that the best, most effective tools to support home creation are the subject of an ongoing investigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig in a normal time frame.
u2018-10-17-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Whether it is the 2018 budget or now it is very difficult for you to discuss the 2017 accounts, but I raise my hat to you, because you are trying to meet government expectations and debate the opposition's concerns. But let me tell you that there are still four pro-government representatives in this Chamber who have the opportunity to help you out in your work, and I think they would also have a comment that would be about the 2017 final report, or, say, appropriations, 2018 or, if we look ahead, 2019. We have heard a lot and a lot about the professional reports and the professional contributions we have heard from the speakers of the governing party. I enjoyed, first of all, the professional speech by Congressman Harghitai, about the ten orders of the Hungarian king, the ten orders of the bank, and my fellow Member Pototacska mentioned the 10th commandment, which says that whoever is saving is a patriot, but this one has several varieties. Interestingly, he did not quote from the Ten Commandments, the 8th commandment of which is "Do not steal." It's not a commandment, because it's more or less a prohibition, because it's a prohibition, when emphasising an act that is harmful or considered harmful, that it should not be, or, more specifically, that it should not yet be... so it's a prohibition, not a commandment, I think. [[15.50]] If another pro-government speech could be qualified and given a positive rating, the speech by our fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács. There was a very interesting comment in his speech, which sounded like this: when opposition representatives are involved in the debate on the budget or in the debate on closing accounts, they usually take up sensitive topics that define people's everyday lives. You see very well, Mr President, because I think these are the two most important issues, and allow me to be biased in this regard: education and, more importantly, health. Why is this such a stressful subject? Whether we, representatives, state leaders, state employees, whether workers, workers, parents, mothers, children meet this segment on a weekly or daily basis, and we are now trying to discuss how the budget adopted in 2017 was used in 2018 either in the field of education or health care, they see that the positive or negative feedback they have brought to correct the next year's budget. When the 2018 budget was adopted, Mr Secretary of State told me and I had to correct you there that the budget included wage increases and wage increases for health workers. I said then that I could agree with some of it, because it is undeniable and undisputed that there were wage developments in the field of health, but not in all segments. There were workers, and I told you that then, and I still do, who did not reach the minimum wage, and with an employer's contribution, the employer added this. I called that, and I'd call it a paycheque right now. Here Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, spoke about health improvements, and I am sorry that he left, because I wanted to address this speech to him and this comment. Many times we hear from pro-government politicians that there have been improvements in health care and health care in recent years, whether it be the replacement of computer tomograph equipment, the replacement of hospital furniture. I'd turn it around, and I'd adjust it again at the word level, and I'd put it more like it's not a development, it's a replacement of an outdated device. If the feet of the Secretary of State's chair break out now and they bring a new one tomorrow, it's not a development, it's an exchange, in my opinion, and it's similar in health care. Development is when the specific health segment of a health institution, whether it is a class or a specialist, brings new things, do, do, develop. I am thinking, for example, of a medical institution where there was no medical department before, and then the medical department was reopened. But here's another example: if there's a hospital where there's no computer tomography or magnetic resonance equipment, and they put one there, it's a development. In the same way, it was only a replacement at the National Rescue Service, when we saw that most of the car parks had been replaced in the last year, and it was described as the replacement of car parks. So again, I wouldn't call that development. When we talk about the budget or closing accounts, we always have to look back on the figures that were nominal amounts for health in 2017 and in 2018 we can argue whether these developments were successful, whether these exchanges were successful, whether those amounts were sufficient for the task that the health care industry had to do. I say, and it is possible to argue that health is the segment where we have to put money without its relative benefit; it has one benefit: we are trying to build a healthy society and we are trying to build a healthy society. I would also add that here we are now involved in top sports, active sport in health care. I have to add that it doesn't take money to keep someone healthy and prevent the disease. The best and most useful health conservation, disease prevention is movement, active form of movement, and it is called running, which requires minimal effort, even tao, a good running shoe and a grassy section. This cardio training keeps the body's engine healthy and it's called a heart. Maintaining the health of top athletes is a cost of money, because if you look at it, top athletes at the age of 30-35 already have joint problems that are the burden of health later on. If we look at the 2017 health budget and look at it again, what we see is that what we intended for this segment is unfortunately not enough, but we will also say the same in 2019, because at the moment, given the current data, the hospital's total debt has reached HUF 50 billion, or HUF 50 billion, and we planned a surplus of HUF 101 billion for 2019. We've already lived half of it, and it's not the end of the year, and there's still the expenditure that you can't see yet, but you can guess because healthcare is a storehouse of fast-growing IT systems and imaging diagnostic systems that we can't track financially. If everything is really okay with health, and really improvements, as pro-government politicians say, have been made here over the years in health institutions, whether it is the hospital, clinic, general medical practice, the National Rescue Service, then at least answer me this one, if you can, Mr. Secretary of State, and in your reply be that, yes, yes, must, or not be necessary: these two answers are acceptable to me. In my constituency, Tapolca, my hometown, there's a hospital that's my concern, and I've always treated it as a matter of my heart. There have been several donations from Germany, just as the lips hospital received a similar donation, a city with a population of 35,000. The hospital published this donation on its website from Germany once again, not new, used but in excellent condition hospital equipment was delivered here, and I would like to read this statement, which the headmistress also declared: the Tapolca hospital received a significant donation from the Maria Hilf Clinic in Mönchenglandbach: hospital beds, sponge mats, night tables, hospital chairs, rolling parakeet, children's bed, children's bed toilets, bathing chairs, infusion racks, watch monitors. So if improvements have been made within the healthcare system, whether Tapolca, Ajka, Székesfehérvár, Veszprém or any other territory of the country, do you think it is necessary to accept such donations? But I will go on, because in mid-October 2018, the furniture of four classrooms of a school in Tapolca, the Batsányi János Elementary School, was replaced with similar, very good, and I have to say, excellent school furniture for the satisfaction and joy of both teachers and students and parents. I would also ask Mr Secretary of State if funding the education system or even the funding of the municipal system is sufficient and good, then it is necessary, by pro-government politicians, to accept such institutions as lomis. Once again, these were welcomed by parents, students and teachers, welcomed by doctors, hospital directors, nurses and patients who were healing on these beds. If this health funding system is really so good, you know it's not good, and you know it's not good, because it's not good, because it's good, because it's funding that goes from full investigation of diseases to treatment and release, and then it's not enough in post-treatment. We need to follow this funding. [[16.00]] I would like to refer once again to my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, who said, and he is absolutely right about this, only this is a very difficult subject, and I say that it is a very embarrassing subject, and it is very difficult for any government to reach into it, not even having a political will, not even an opportunity, nor even a talent to touch it. Congressman Turi-Kovács said that we are pouring money into the health system, but we do not see its usefulness, because until we know what we are supporting, there is no money that we cannot spend. He and Minister of State Bence Rétvári also referred to the change of structure. Yeah, just which structure, where do we touch? This was already tried once in 2010, when the Semmelweis plan was dreamed, several hospitals changed functions in connection with the restructuring. Divisions have ceased, divisions have ceased and transferred to other hospitals, and they have said this in economic terms that it is good because it makes the operation of a small hospital more economical and sustainable. If you look at it, at the beginning of 2018, the Tapolca Hospital has 85 million debts in the constituency. I would add, because the truth is that while this hospital prospered as an active class, it accumulated a debt of between 185 million and 200 million forints annually. If you look at the hospital to which most of the tasks have migrated and now belong, this is the Hungarian Imre Hospital of Lips, according to the data currently available, according to the State Treasury data, it is HUF 483 million. Compared to the previous ones, while these functions were not yet transferred, we add it to the same thing as to its treadmills, it was between 320 and 290 million forints at the beginning of 2010. We can say that the debt saved by the hospital in Tapolca has unfortunately migrated to the Hungarian Imre Hospital together with patients, diseases, patient groups and underfunding. Unfortunately, this couldn't be solved. I agree with my fellow Member that, if we look at health funding, we need a pan-European agreement, and the agreement on the whole must not go through one cycle, but over several cycles, leading to at least ten years of getting this health care out of this pit at last. We are partners in this, we are looking for a compromise and we are looking for ways to solve this problem. Please help me with this, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-17-94	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, as rapporteur, to reflect on what has been said today.
u2018-10-17-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must start by saying that I trust that today's debate has confirmed that the implementation of the 2017 budget was carried out according to the original plans, and that Hungary's macroeconomic indicators were more favourable than expected when the budget was adopted, and perhaps at least as important, these more favourable indicators were visible in everyday life. Allow me to mention some data. At the time of the adoption of the budget, Parliament calculated an economic expansion of 3.1 percent, which had already exceeded the expected growth of the European Union. We know that the fact is 4.1 percent. The original budget calculated a deficit of 2.4 per cent of GDP. Today we know that this deficit has become 2.2 percent. The original budget calculated a reduction in the government debt ratio. We now know whether we are looking at the sovereign debt ratio together with or without Eximbank, whether we are calculating it according to the methodology of the Stability Act, or by the European Union's so-called Maastricht definition, the debt ratio has decreased substantially from 2016 to 2017. These positive changes are partly, predominantly, mainly due to the six-year wage agreement of November 2016, as this wage agreement was both about raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and as a cover for these wage increases, the reduction of taxes, namely the rate of social contribution tax and the rate of corporation tax. At the same time, not only did real wages increase by 10.1 percent, but the number of people employed increased, the number of people employed increased to over 4.4 million, and the unemployment rate fell to 4.2 percent in parallel. The average gross monthly earnings of those employed in the national economy amounted to HUF 297 thousand. Allow me to say again, referring to the six-year wage agreement, that, thanks to the impact of this agreement in 2018, the number of people employed is already higher, the unemployment rate is significantly below 4 per cent, and, thank God, gross average earnings are still growing. These positive changes in everyday life have led to more investment from the surplus income of the population, including home-building, which has been substantially supported by the 2017 budget, even for consumption, where consumption has increased by 4.7 percent. Thanks to these positive macroeconomic figures and everyday processes, it is not only the international institutions that have recognised the results in Hungary, such as the credit rating agencies, who have changed the outlook from neutral to positive in terms of Hungarian sovereign debt, but also other financial investors, who have also received low interest rates on their purchases of sovereign debt. The favourable macroeconomic situation, higher employment, wage increases and related additional budgetary revenues not only allowed the original budget revenue figures to be met, but also allowed the budget to be revised during the year and significant additional expenditure to be made available at the end of the year, and even increased expenditure under the budgetary law under government powers. Overall, we see, therefore, not only that expenditure has increased in the originally planned expenditure areas, either in terms of health care, education, defence or support for Hungarians across borders, but also in terms of spending exceeding the originally planned expenditure. I would like to mention in particular the pensioners, for whom the so-called pension premium was paid on a sustainable basis, as shown in the accounts at the end of last year. I hope that this year will also take place, and we have every reason to do so, because the growth data of the first semester shows 4.7 percent growth. On this basis, I may also say that not only the pension premium can be paid, but also the amount of the pension premium may increase in many cases. In addition, at the end of 2017 I mention the Erzsébet voucher, which also resulted in an improvement in their position, the position of pensioners, among those measures targeting pensioners. Of course, 2017 shows not only the areas in which progress has been made, but we can undoubtedly see it, and I think today's debate has also shown that we still have a number of tasks. At the same time, I think that the six-year wage agreement, the first full year of which was in 2017, also shows that in 2018 and the coming years we hope to solve the tasks ahead, while also achieving the stability of public finances, the decreasing deficits and, at the same time, the reduction of public debt. We therefore have tasks, whether to increase competitiveness or to reduce the public debt ratio, or to improve the quality of service in certain public supply areas, but I think that 2017 again shows, as in previous years, that the economic policy direction ensures that these tasks are solved step by step. [[16.10]] On this basis, I hope that the closing bill will be passed by the Parliament and that we can have a year behind us that we can rely on similar positive figures for both 2018 and the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-17-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. Those who have applied for a post- Agenda address have been withdrawn, so today's sitting is closed. We will resume our meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning.
