u2018-06-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st meeting of the 2nd Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting by 25-29 June 2018. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals that the Government initiated to negotiate at the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear House, Once again, it is my sad duty to inform the Parliament that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the last week. Sándor Komor, born in Hajdúhadház, obtained his mandate at the first free parliamentary elections in the MDF, in the 4th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar county. During his time in the Parliament, he worked as Vice-President of the Committee on Budget, Taxation and Finance and as a member of the Hungarian-Dutch Friendship Department of the Interparlamentary Union. He was a member of the Parliament until 1994. Rezső Rumány was a founding member of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party in 1956, then worked in the leadership bodies of the party until 1989. From 1960 to 1962 he served as Minister of Finance and then in 1988 as Minister of State. From 1989 to 1990 he was the first president of the MSZP, until 1998 he was the party's parliamentary representative. During his term of office, the Election and Examination Committee and the Committee on the President of the State Audit Office were chairing and Vice-President of the Court of Auditors Committee. In addition to his political role in public life, he was a professor at the Corvinus University of Budapest. I would like to ask my fellow Members to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members who have died in silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "The Safety of Hungary." I give you the floor.
u2018-06-25-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Less than two weeks ago, an amazing thing happened in the European Parliament: Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of the European Union to strengthen European cyber security and prepare itself for cyber attacks by China and Russia. What happened, fellow Members? They pushed me aside, and for once in life, did they accidentally represent Hungarian and European interests? Have you finally realized that Russia is not our bosom friend, but a threat that we must defend ourselves against? We-before, however, could have actually asked these questions, it soon turned out that we saw a peacock dance again. The Brussels button push is the exact opposite in Budapest. A few weeks ago, I spoke in this House about the Russians being in our computers, using Kaspersky Lab's antivirus software based in Moscow, cooperating with Russian secret services. I told them that the Western world has already responded to cybersecurity risks, including the United States and the Netherlands banished Russian company software from state machinery. Since then, Europol has also suspended cooperation with the company, the European Commission has found that it is, I quote, proven to be malicious. So I asked Sándor Pintér what he was going to do on a written question. The answer made it clear that nothing, the whole case, was taken care of by your misconceptions. Even though the Russians are here, they know everything firsthand through their representatives and state computers, but it's been talked out, there's nothing to see here. I also turned to the Speaker of Parliament in a letter, but according to the Director-General of the Parliament's Office, who so requests, these antivirus softwares will be removed from the machine of the Parliament, but the antivirus software will not be removed automatically from the machines of its representatives, as Kaspersky Lab is not a threat to Hungary according to the Hungarian government. What you believe to be a security threat in Brussels is a common part of everyday life at home. Russia, who is still a security threat against and manipulating European states in Brussels, is now the cornerstone of our defence in Budapest. How is that, fellow Members? ! Did Putin allow this vote in Brussels? Did he ask how funny it was to have the European Union on the one hand, at least on paper, and at the same time the representatives of the Hungarian government in the European Union and in the European Parliament sitting in the face of the Trojan horse? Will they shake their fists in Brussels and the Russian disinformation campaign against the forgery, while, of course, the Hungarian 1 will continue to receive the Russian fake news by presenting it as reality? Will the Fidesz MEPs in Brussels also protest against Russian energy dependence while expanding the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with Russian credit? We are on the verge that Fidesz in Brussels will demand refugee ships for the Danube, which Fidesz in Budapest then brands as a Soros ship in outrage. This is how Fidesz dances in the European Union and thus voted in favour of the European Union's cyber security development, so that, of course, it does the opposite at home. [[13.10]] Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz of Budapest! What has to happen to protect Hungary from Russian cyber and disinformation attacks? What does it take to prevent Russian spies from going to Budapest? What does it take to keep the Russian Secret Service from accessing all state data or state secrets? What would it take to protect the country from Russia? Would it help if I asked you in Russian? You're talking about security, but you're giving our country to Russia. I would add that you know that there is a department that banned Kaspersky Lab virus exterminator six months ago from its machines. It's a state secret, it can't be said, but I would suggest that you follow this Ministry. They are talking about national interests, but they do not add that they serve the Russian national interests. Because it is in the Russian national interest to be a virus exterminator of Kaspersky Lab, working with the Russian secret service, in the entire Hungarian government administration and on the machines of parliamentary representatives. It is in the Russian national interest to keep Viktor Orbán and his government on a short leash so that the chain can be pulled at any time if he wanders away from the Russian interests. The shame of modern Hungarian history is that to make our country a Russian colony we did not need Russian tanks, we did not need Russian soldiers; we needed you: representatives from Brussels and Budapest Fidesz. Given that you voluntarily and songfully handed over the Hungarian state to oversee Russian secret services, the question is what other data... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2018-06-25-2	Károly Kontra is entitled to the answer. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We didn't go to a formal school, Mr. President. Applause in DK's ranks. Interventions from opposition parties. Károly Kontra begins his reply without tone.]]
u2018-06-25-3	May I have a voice for the Secretary of State? [[Lajos Korózs: We don't want to hear it anyway!]]
u2018-06-25-4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to reject all of Mrs Ágnes Vadai's unsubstantiated, shameful, lying contributions, in which she said that we Hungarian Members - and I will do this on behalf of all Hungarian Members of Parliament [[Gergely Harvester: Not in mine!]] - we serve Russian interests. Those who serve Russian interests should rise, honourable Member. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's your turn, Secretary of State. Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik, MSZP and DK. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Stand up and make it clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to conclude at the very beginning that the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP in Brussels are in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian people, and they have done so before, and are doing so now. Security is the most important Community value, and Hungary is a safe country. It's not what we say, it's what others say about us, and it's what we feel who live in this country. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The Russians say it!]] And we do not feel that when you were in government, honourable Member, and when the mayor of Sajóbábony, who was MSZP mayor, wrote a letter to the then President of Parliament in 2007, asking that the death penalty be restored in Hungary, because there are conditions in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and in the city that there is no free passage; if someone goes to church, he will no longer find his belongings, my honourable fellow Member. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What does it have to do with the Russians?]] Then you have completely neglected the safety of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian authorities were not in control of the situation. In 2010, we promised to tidy up the country, restore security, and we did. Today it can be said that Hungary is the 15th safest country in the world, so we have confirmed... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The disaster management website has also been attacked!]] Will you listen to me, Congresswoman? Do you understand the word "Hungarian"? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: More than you, that's the difference!]] Will you listen to me? Do it. Thank you very much. So we've confirmed the police [[Intervention from opposition parties.]] the number of police officers is more than 7,000, car service has been provided, more than 7,000 new vehicles have been put into service, we have introduced a new service law, from 2015 we have implemented a 50% salary increase, the last 5 percent of which will take place from 1 January 2019 and we have done everything we can to ensure that Hungary is a safe country. As a result, the number of crimes decreased by 50 percent compared to 2010, the results of investigations improved, there is more security than before 2010. When you took over the country, and during your administration, when you were Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, you called in the Russian services, the National Security Agency. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We discussed this last time...]] managers of a polygraph procedure...
u2018-06-25-5	I didn't give the floor to Congresswoman again. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: So I gave it to myself!]]
u2018-06-25-6	...submitted, Russian Secret Service people called in, there's a court case on this. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No.]] This can also be documented by judicial prosecution that proceedings have been initiated in this case and that has been done. Whose interest were you in, Congresswoman? As regards the protection of cyberspace, government systems should aim to ensure that the data stored on the computer is reliable, inviolable and accessible and that the virus is not introduced. This can only be achieved, honourable Member, by using several antiviruses independently of each other in the systems concerned, so that it can be avoided even if the programmer herself leaves a loophole. In Hungary, the protection of cyberspace is guaranteed, honourable Member, because the National Cyber Protection Institute [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's swinging.]] and Nemzeti Infokommunikációs Szolgáltató Zrt. monitor network communication and prevent any data loss. In recent years, looking back over recent years, no data loss has been identified by the National Cyber Protection Institute. [[Gergely Harvester: That's what it's worth!]] Based on the current national cyber security strategy in Hungary, a model of cyberspace protection is implemented in Hungary, based on cooperation and shared responsibility. The status of the antivirals is continuously monitored by the competent bodies and, in case of concern, the necessary signals are made, for which the necessary measures are taken. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say once again that Hungary, the Hungarian people, are safe [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] Today, when we rule the country. When you were on the government, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's when they were.]] there was no public safety at the time. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Yes, I did!]] And national security was in danger, because I'm telling you once again, it's proven by court proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2018-06-25-7	Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How does the government reject the cafeteria with employers? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-8	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The debate on next year's budget will begin this week. Looking at the content of the Budget Act presented, it is necessary to conclude that every year the amount spent on welfare expenditure is significantly reduced, while we also find that budget expenditure on the functioning of the State is increasing year by year. If you look at the eight years of the Orbán government, you can see that some HUF 1300 billion has been withdrawn from the welfare and social care system in eight years. A major chapter in the budget law deals with the case of cafeteria. I must note here that a responsible government negotiates with interest representatives, interest organisations, employees' organisations or employers' organisations prior to the submission of the Budget Act. Unfortunately, the Orbán government did not, because it adopted the budget law first and then submitted it to Parliament, and as I hear, it intends to have coffee with the union leaders this afternoon at 4:00 p.m. There is no doubt that they will not give in to anything at all, because that is not the nature of these negotiations. It should be noted when we talk about cafetheria that these cafeteria benefits also serve very serious social policy goals for trade unions. For example, trade union assets served the recreation and rest of workers, but unfortunately, this property has been lost significantly in recent years, and they wished to compensate for it by providing different benefits to workers in the cafeteria system. If we look at this proposal, then four social groups must be highlighted, who will be injured by this government policy. Above all, workers, public sector workers, pensioners and young people. What's gone? Let us look at the preferential tax items that the Orbán government intends to abolish in this fiscal law and in the tax laws. In particular, food vouchers should be mentioned. It is well-known to my fellow Members that employers could provide food vouchers to workers up to HUF 12 500 a month. But there is no reduced taxation of local rental financing, no school start-up support. It is well known that employers could grant start-up support to employees at a reduced rate of HUF 33 300 per year. It is also necessary to mention two items that destroy and kill the remaining institution of self-care, and this is the employer's benefit linked to health insurance and pension insurance. In the case of health care, it is HUF 33 300, and in the case of pension insurance it is HUF 55 500, where the employer could give the employee such a benefit to ensure income security in old age. Unfortunately, these will also disappear, as is the cash cafeteria of 100,000 forints in the public sector. As I have mentioned to you, young people are a terrible loser of this government measure. All the more so, because it is also known to you that employers could provide housing support worth HUF 5 million for about five years. In addition, young beginners, under 25, had the opportunity to provide employers with a contribution allowance in the event that they had to support a first job. In addition, up to 20 percent of the minimum wage was available for employers to support the employee in the cafeteria system. Regrettably, this is also going away; as I have said, both the travel pass and the food voucher. If all this is calculated, it will not be uncommon for a young worker when one employee will fall from HUF 50-60 thousand, only as a result of the cafeteria measures. Let's look at the net wage increase of 12 percent last year. If we compare the two, my fellow Members, we can see that last year's wage growth will be reduced to virtually a penny by the Orbán government this year, more precisely the following year, and next year these people will be kept where they were last year, in terms of their income relations. And I have to mention those who are about to retire. Let's just say it's really cute what... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What happened now, Mr. President?
u2018-06-25-9	Your time's up.
u2018-06-25-10	Then I look forward to the Minister's answer.
u2018-06-25-11	I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai.
u2018-06-25-12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, My first thought is to confront you with what you did to the employees, the workers, when you were sitting in the benches of the ruling parties. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's been nine years!]] So I would like to recall what you voted for when you were a pro-government Member. Of course, he now stands up as an opposition representative to defend the cafeteria as a hero. So, you voted to take a month's salary from people in the public sector. He also voted to take a month's pension from pensioners. At your time, the price of gas tripled, the price of electricity doubled, the visit fee was introduced, the hospital's daily allowance. By the way, they wanted to put in a pension tax and a real estate tax. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] But as incredible as you are, during the Fidesz government, you have not voted in favour of a single tax reduction proposal, not a single wage increase proposal contained in the budget. When we submitted a proposal for a reduction in overhead costs, a freeze on overhead costs, we were not voted in favour. But interestingly, they did not vote for any VAT cuts, nor for the reduction of VAT on foodstuffs, nor for the reduction of tax on housing. You abolished the tax relief for children, did not vote for the growing family tax relief system under the Fidesz government, which has now increased to HUF 40,000 per month after two children. It can be said that the socialists, as long as they were in government, have raised the costs of workers, whether they are rent or any kind of tax, but at the same time during the Fidesz administration, the reductions put forward were not supported. As regards the transformation of the cafeteria system: I think you should also accept that the Fidesz government has established a completely new system of public burdens in Hungary. Today, the rate of personal income tax is one-key, 15 percent, and the so-called social security contribution, which was 27 percent, is now 19.5 percent, and will decrease in the coming years. The aim is to impose a social contribution tax of 11-12 per cent on living labour. I do not think that in any country the voucher can replace the wage for the work done. In Hungary, the current extensive cafeteria system has gone in this direction, as it has been possible since 2017, as you said, to pay cash cafeteria up to HUF 100,000. And we have seen that the majority of employers have chosen this system within the so-called cafeteria. This cash system will run for two years, last year and this year. We can see that they have not gone towards vouchers, but towards the cash payment system. We say now who, this is the government's thinking that a decent wage should be paid for the work done; a fair wage, which does not limit the consumption of workers in any way. Because these cafeteria benefits did limit it. [[13.30]] Today, the public burden on wages and income in Hungary is so low that workers have to pay wages. But this does not mean that the cafeteria system will be completely terminated, as the benefits provided on the SZÉP card will remain. True, these benefits only guide the consumption of Hungarian workers towards domestic tourism. It is also important that the cafetheria was not given to those people, not to those with low incomes, but to those with high incomes and high wages on the basis of statistics as a supplement to income. It is therefore necessary to adapt the cafeteria system to the fiscal and tax laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-13	On behalf of Congressman Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP: Hungary, Hungary? The representation of Hungarian interests in the last 8 years' foreign policy. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-25-14	Thank you very much for the floor. We all know the founding sentence of a newspaper that has unfortunately been saved since then, so that Hungary remains a Hungarian country. Sándor Pető and Zoltán Szabó first described this in 1938 for the sovereignty of Hungary facing double threats, since then the Prime Minister and the government have interpreted it in a different context, in the context of technical homogenicity, but we intend to pursue our policy in the original sense of the Pető Sándor maxima, and in my opinion, that is what everyone wants to do. If we look at the first eight years of government foreign policy based on this, we see that we need to look at the three traditional foreign policy objectives that have been the basis of Hungarian foreign policy for hundreds of years. This triad is the preservation of Hungary's sovereignty, the protection of the completeness of our countrymen living across the border and Hungary, and the acquisition of markets for Hungarian businesses, as well as the protection of Hungarian markets, i.e. Hungary's economic representation abroad. I'd like to start with the first one. Protecting our sovereignty is very important for government communication, it is always about illegal immigration, but at the same time it has a more fundamental meaning. The more fundamental point is that we make decisions about Hungary in Hungary. We are currently exercising this sovereignty in an alliance with the European Union and NATO, and these interests must be represented within this alliance. Of course, Hungarian interests must also be represented against our ally, and everything must be done to ensure that Hungarian interests are shown as much as possible in our allies. Yet it is very important that the government's friendly and enemy recognition system works well. The unfortunate problem with the Hungarian government is that in the last eight years he has been hostile to our allies and to our enemies an ally. The fact is that the government has repeatedly stated in Hungary that it has stopped Brussels, and that the country has been posted with it. If this includes Tibor Navracsics, you will decide. The fact is that the government did not stop Brussels when, for example, the German corporations wanted to sell the region to Gazprom at Nord Stream II, but when it was convenient for you. But it is undoubtedly true that Brussels had to be stopped, and Brussels has made many mistakes. However, I do not know which Secretary of State will be, but the one who stands up and answers here, I would like to make the respectful request to give an example in the last eight years when they represented the Hungarian interest in Moscow when Moscow was stopped. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Energy independence.]] Just give me one example of the last eight years to stop Moscow or Berlin or anything else. Furthermore, the representation of Hungarians across the border is considered very important, they always talk about it, but there is also a separate secretary of state, sometimes in several ministries. Nevertheless, Hungarian foreign policy calls Hungarian-Slovak relations historical, and then commits to the V4 Presidency without including the issue of indigenous minorities in the written priorities. And the worst part is that at his ministerial hearing, Péter Szijjártó says that he expects good relations from the good quality of Slovak-Hungarian relations, that the Hungarians living there will have a better representation. Once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to indicate, when he responds, what concrete progress has been made over the last eight years in terms of the fact that the terrible situation of Hungarians in Slovakia resulting from the language law has changed, or how much recognition of dual citizenship has been able to move forward in the last eight years. The third is the representation of Hungary's economic interests. Here you will be able to read a production report, and it is undoubtedly true and outrageous that other countries are breaking the sanctions and are doing business with China, Iran, and we are told that this should not be done. It's a double standard. However, I would like to point out that if the east and the south were successful, 5 out of 14 trading houses in the last year, which were closed, were in Asia and 5, which was closed, were in Africa. Why is it that the Hungarian taxpayers of these trading houses waste forints and do not bring any real economic advantage? Finally, I would like to say that it is in the national interest for Hungary's Government to be a predictable opponent and a good ally. Unfortunately, what we see in my political community is that it is not sufficiently hostile when it is necessary, and it is not a predictable ally with those that it needs. Hopefully, for the next four years, this will change, but our hopes will probably remain only hope. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-25-15	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-16	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I listened with great interest to his speech, I was a little insecure, because I understand he is not an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so he may not be able to regulate the framework of my speech, but I try to answer his questions. The fact that he's not an employee of the State Department proves that the country's foreign policy is not controlled by the LMP, so as I listened to his direction, I was a little insecure as if the LMP had won the election. Then I looked around Parliament, but fortunately that didn't happen, so we can all relax, LMP doesn't dictate the policy of the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now I understand, of course, that there's some confusion in the LMP after the election result, that's what we see, there's some confusion, some people are disqualified, some people aren't hired, and then sometimes they slapped each other, and that happens. We understand the confusion of the LMP. As far as foreign policy is concerned, you accuse us from time to time of serving such an interest, of such an interest, of which it can be said to be extremely boring. In fact, your foreign policy is all about meeting foreign interests. In fact, what you're talking about, honourable Member, is nothing more than Diplomacy. You'll wake up, I'll put a pin in an area of the sky that you like or dislike, and you'll keep your voice accordingly. Foreign policy is a half a degree more complicated than that. Of course, you are right, just so you don't accuse me of not being right about anything, we are part of the Euroatlantic alliances, but it is still in the interest of Hungary to pursue diplomacy either east or south or in any other direction, even if you don't like it. I would also like to say what is typical of your policy and foreign policy, that you do not recognise the dangers of illegal immigration. You did not support the Hungarian Government in anything when it fought against illegal immigration. You are interested in many things and many people, only the opinion of the Hungarian people, not the decision of the Hungarian people. On the other hand, the Hungarian government asked the Hungarian people three times what they thought. There was a referendum, a national consultation, and there was also a April election, although I am not happy to remind you of the results of this. I understand this is a painful point. I also understand and do not understand, but I see that you are not interested in the opinion of the Hungarian people. That may explain why you discovered that there were people in the country after the elections. I would also suggest studying this part and mapping it. As for the foreign economy, you mentioned this. It is important, however, that you pay attention to our speeches and, you know, I would like to remind you that if necessary, it does not bother me: every year since 2014, every foreign economic record has been broken, which means that last year Hungarian exports exceeded EUR 100 billion; between 2014 and 2017, some 300 investments have been made in Hungary through our investment agency, which means some 60 thousand new jobs. I would like to inform the honourable Member that we are not talking about simple numbers, but about the livelihood and sure existence of 60,000 and, as a rule, much more Hungarian people. As far as the European scene is concerned, we see that the pro-immigration forces are doing everything they can to get their will through, but Hungary does not allow it. This is the protection of borders, the rejection of quotas and the need to place hotspots outside Europe. We started this fight alone, dear House, it may also be important to remember that. Today, what we are pleased about is that more and more people are fighting this fight, and more and more people are trying to organize a group and axis of those fighting illegal immigration. But it is also important to remember that in 2015, we started alone, we got cold and warm for it, and then our V4 partners joined us, joined Austria, and joined Italy. [[13.40]] We reject the threat of terrorism and reject parallel societies, reject the increase in crime. It is important to recall what you always forget: there have been a lot of terrorist attacks in Europe over the last 3 to 3.5 years, which have been committed without exception by immigration and migration offenders. We've got about 29 of these, but I'm afraid our list isn't complete. More than 330 innocent people in Europe were killed and more than 1,300 wounded. This proves that the government's policy is right. We are under strong pressure, but I am also able to inform the honourable Member that we are going to endure this fight. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-17	Will the next speech before the agenda be started? Mr Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue, will address it. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The academic year is over, and at the end of the academic year, the academics are preparing for the next academic year in September. The big question is whether the Central European University, which is based in Budapest, can prepare for the start of the academic year. It seems that they cannot prepare for it, that the government will continue to levitate the granting of the permit, and at this time we have no certainty that the academic year can begin in September at the Central European University, although CEU has complied with all the requirements. By the way, in April, Palkovics, then Secretary of State, was now convinced in New York by Minister, when it was apparent that the training there was also going and working. However, there is no decision today. CEU is trying to defend itself against uncertainty by creating a campus in Vienna so that it can relocate to Vienna if necessary. In this particular situation, of course, you pro-government representatives can ask me whether I, as a conservative economist [[Defiance, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] why it hurts that a liberal institution's situation becomes uncertain [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What faction are you in? What faction are you in?]] As you may recall, in recent years I have had a lot of debates, a lot of professional debates with liberal economists. And if you remember that, you're right about that, I've actually had a lot of discussions with liberal, left-wing and balliberal economists over the last few years. But these were all professional debates, and professional debates are very important for the development of science, because without professional debate, science and theory become dogma, so they are needed. A professional debate can only be held with those who are properly prepared. No, if we look at the publication activities of teachers at the economics faculty of the Central European University, so if we add the number of international publications of categories A, B and C, and compare it with the publications of teachers working in all other Hungarian economic higher education institutions, then we get that CEU alone has more publications than all other Hungarian higher education institutions. So this is a serious value, and in order to avoid any misunderstanding, CEU's teachers achieved this publication by saying that they are all Hungarian-born Hungarian-speaking people and non-imported guest educators. So if you look at any ranking, you can see that the Central European University is almost everywhere in the first 200. Unfortunately, Hungarian universities are not included in the first 500. In other words, it can be seen that it is indeed a professional workshop that should be kept in any event and which has a very significant impact on higher education life in Hungary. I would therefore like to ask you, fellow Members, to help preserve this value and to help the government decide that this university can continue to stay in Hungary. We Hungarian people are all proud of Béla Bartók. Béla Bartók is indisputably the XX. He was the greatest composer of the century and the most well-known Hungarian man in the world. Unfortunately, however, the Christian national course between the two world wars drove him away from Hungary, in 1940 he was forced to leave Hungary, died on a foreign land in 1945, and his ashes were brought home only later. I ask you not to make this mistake again; let us try to keep Hungarian talents at home in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-25-19	State Secretary Bence Rétvári will give you the answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-20	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As far as your political cremation or political change is concerned, this is not the first time we've been surprised. At a time when you were a former system changer, an MDF representative, helped to form a group of dialogues with the Socialists in their closest alliance, and therefore you broke your own given word when you told those voters who sent you here to Parliament to represent only the interests of the local people as an independent representative, and you will not represent any party interests, and after that it will be only a few months, and yet you will help the dialogue with the socialists, which is full of wild liberal ideas, to have a faction, and this is justified by the fact that there is a cooperation on the opposition side, honourable Member, I believe that we have already established that disappointment. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] What is now only added to what you, sometimes talking about CEU, sometimes the Central European University, have simply said here in connection with the Soros University. One thing is certain: in Hungary, the laws must be followed by everyone. When we accepted the amendment of the Higher Education Act, each foreign university operating in Hungary sought to comply with these laws as soon as possible, a good part of them complied with earlier, submitted the necessary documents, we also adopted decisions in the National Assembly, and each one of them either admitted that they did not comply with the requirements of the law and did not continue their activities, or submitted the documents, and these different decisions were made. There was only one university that did not say that I would implement the law, but said that this was a violation of the rule of law, this is a violation of the rule of law, this is a violation of the freedom of science, and this law must be changed back to the Hungarian Bálint law, after which George Soros thanked Hungarian Bálint for the adoption of the lex CEU in his own signed letter, and asked that the other legislation remain intact and fully in the interests of the Soros University. So they were the only ones who got used to being above the law, and they didn't want to obey it, they wanted to change the law. And they did not pass on false accusations against Hungary to launch an international wave of protests, even involving well-intentioned people at international level, which was actually based on a false assumption. And his untruth is shown by the fact that countless other foreign universities have jumped this standard, universities that are not backed by a billionaire like George Soros, who can actually do anything, have decided the currency of countries. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] and bought huge corporate empires and so on. Universities with a much less capitalised background also complied with this law and complied with its requirements. We also ask George Soros's university, you sometimes say CEU, sometimes Central European University, to play chess that sometimes they refer to the university that operates under Hungarian law, and sometimes to the university that is established under foreign law, but which operates in Hungary, well, we ask you to comply with the law; not to change it, but to comply with them as well. I would also like to reject that, honourable Member, from you and many of your opposition fellow politicians, when they say that CEU is the best Hungarian university, or that what happens in other universities is not comparable to scientific achievement at CEU. We have excellent Hungarian universities, Semmelweis University is regularly included in the first 500 in international comparison, rankings, but it could be classified as excellent results in Szeged or ELTE or elsewhere. The kind of contempt for Hungarian universities that developed around the CEU debate is not good for anything [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's why you wanted to close the Corvinus!]] but, above all, not at these universities. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] substantial work is being done...
u2018-06-25-21	Congresswoman, ask for a glass of water if you're unwell. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-22	It is also a little strange, you know, Congressman, that the CEU has obtained a direct source in Brussels for its development and construction in Budapest, but when we said that we would build the Budapest center hospitals, the super hospital from European Union sources, they said in Brussels that the Central Hungarian region was too advanced, that there was no way to build a hospital in Budapest from EFOP sources, but CEU could be developed from direct sources in Brussels. [[13.50]] But I'm sure you and George Soros wouldn't have an argument about immigration, because they are connected to you, and I quote from you that one million people migrate to the US of 300 million a year, and the economy couldn't operate at high speed without them. The 500 million Europe has had a hysterical attack by half a million refugees, and Europe should also learn to live with immigration. Or else you said that in a country - Hungary here - where the population has fallen by almost one million in 35 years, you should earn feverish money [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] possible sources of population replacement, and not shutting it down. You serve the needs of George Soros in everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-23	At the same time, Jobbik's representative, Dániel Z. Kárpát, submitted a speech before the agenda with the title "Ami" left out from the budget of Hungary. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-06-25-24	Mr President, Dear House, Looking at the draft budget before us, at least two parallel realities are emerging. According to Fidesz-KDNP, things are going well in Hungary, wages are rising, more people are migrating home than people are emigrating from Hungary. I would like to stress that I am not saying this, and this was said not only by Members, undersecretaries of state or ministers. On the other hand, I'd like to argue with your pseudonyms and bring you back a little from the other side of the Stargate to oblivion. After all, if we look at the budget numbers, we will find answers to a number of questions. For example, the EUR 15 billion increase in education is in fact below the level of inflation, so in total terms the amount of resources spent on education is decreasing, structural structural change is lagging behind and, at least, in terms of health, it provides a basis for debate on how much structural change can be discussed. But it is certain that the biggest losers are the young Hungarians and the Hungarian future. After all, in order to slow down emigration, to brake it down, and in terms of the resolution of the housing crisis, there is no government intention in the draft budget, but they are trying to keep a level of discount for the CSOK, which is moving up from the upper middle class, but for young Hungarians who would start their life together, say, with their mates and have children, they are not essentially expressing a message that would respond to how to get an affordable rent, how to get a single home. We also need to see that, in the meantime, the budget would allow additional resources to be allocated. Let me give you an example. The government intends to increase the appropriation of extraordinary government measures to HUF 165 billion by one and a half times. In the so-called National Defence Fund, Viktor Orbán and his team continue to spend a huge sum of HUF 60 billion in pocket money. We can talk about pocket money because, for example, the government decides on the use of the budget of the National Defence Fund in decisions, so it does not ask Parliament, it does not discuss this issue with anyone. How much, how much, how much, how effective and how effective he spends it, he no longer wonders. But I ask the government: if the Hungarian economy is really as bright as it was explained in the explanatory statement, why is the 27 percent world record not only European, but at least a reduction in world record VAT in a cosmetic way? If indeed economic growth is as big as the wage growth, as you say, because, contrary to your claim, I say that only the market wage growth realised in the fields of labour shortages caused by emigration and, fortunately, it has been realised, but this is not due to the government's smart economic policy, and it consumes the future, because, by the rush of emigration, full Hungarian economic sectors can be put on the brink. But if you think we're doing so well in this alternative fidesz reality, there's a question as to why you can't include a 27-percent VAT reduction in this draft budget. After all, even Jobbik can find enough resources and resources to redistribute it. In the middle of a demographic winter, disaster process, why do they not earn or find resources to deliver at least 5% of the VAT on child-rearing goods or even 5% of the VAT on basic foods? It is also a question that, while the Hungarian National Bank and the Hungarian banking system accumulate record-level profits year after year - the Hungarian National Bank has paid only a part of its amazing 100 billion-dollar profits from the foreign exchange credit conversion - why, before, before and after a budget debate, we do not argue that the MNB will pay the outstanding surplus into the budget as a dividend; from this, a compensation fund from which the troubled currency loans are damaged can also be helped by those who have already been evicted. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] I mentioned the lack of a rent-apartment scheme, and I mentioned the lack of measures for credit-damaged people. You can see that hundreds of thousands of millions of social groups have remained on the side of the road, contrary to your promise. The point of my question is therefore, and I see that Secretary of State Dömötör wishes to shoulder the burden of reply: answer that if you think the future is so beautiful and so bright [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Why doesn't this mass get to the young Hungarians, why doesn't it get to the future of Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-25	Luckily, the congressman doesn't give the floor yet, Mr. Secretary. I do, so you can speak now. Here you go, before you breathe the air out of you.
u2018-06-25-26	Thank you, Mr. President, but otherwise, I'd be happy to answer. You were talking about what was left out of the budget, so let me continue with what was left out of your speech. If we touch on young people, when we talk about them, it is painfully lacking that young people, when they get married, get tax benefits; they can expect a home creation programme that will be available even more than before, and it is perfectly natural that they talked about taxes, but they forgot the fact that Hungary has one of the lowest income tax rates. It will continue to be 15 percent in the future, which means that more will remain in the pockets of Hungarian families and more will remain in the pockets of Hungarian young people. Otherwise, it is just as important that the taxes on work continue to decrease. Employers' taxes are falling further in 2019, which reached a level of 27 per cent when this government took office. You may have mentioned that the economy might be on the verge of being ruined. This is contradicted by the fact that economic growth is 4 per cent and has been persistently high for many years. With this, the Central European region, by the way, is at the forefront of Europe. We also listen with interest to their speeches before the agenda because, in most cases, it seems that the government is being called upon on a moral basis in various cases, and one may have the moral feeling that Jobbik is a kind of virgin party, a political virgin party, as innocent as a base democratic movement that is born today. Reality, however, is completely different. The fact is that, in view of the events of the past few weeks, Jobbik does not have a good reason to hold anyone else, any other party, or even the government accountable. Because how can you ask for anything to be accounted for until you can't keep order around your own political party, and then I used the most beautiful expression. How can you rely on different financial proposals? How can you make economic suggestions when there are more and more serious scandals around Jobbik's house, and domestic wars are continuing? What exactly are we thinking? Let us say, of course, that over the last few months or perhaps years they have been constantly in a grey and black zone with an oligarch, and it is no wonder that they are now in bankruptcy. Even the Post Office owes them a lot of money. Do you know the party that ended his career without paying the bills? The SDS. That's what it was. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] And if that wasn't enough, then now your faction leader has confessed to spending money and donations from donors for a different purpose than they asked for. As we all know, they've been raising subsidies to pay the SAO fine. Now, you may already have an opinion of the good-natured person that they want their supporters to pay for the costs of breaking the law, but that even the donations they collected were spent on something else, that's political cynicism on top of it. We used to think that Jobbik couldn't take a step forward in corruption-suspecting transactions, but it looks like we did. This is not the only case where you are suspected of deceiving national emotional people. As we know, Gábor Vona has resigned, apparently, but more and more people are saying that more and more people are preparing for his return. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course, the matter of being a Jobbik member is whether he will allow it, but it would be a tough move if the man who brought Jobbik back to bankruptcy and moral crisis, who practically turned a national party into a second Bito salon. [[14.00]] Whoever first left the ship when it began to sink, and if we understand correctly, if the ship did not sink, would be happy to return, would like to come back. What a foolish thing to do. Does anyone ever wonder if they're leaving Jobbik in bulk? There's nothing surprising about the new momentum of the exit wave. According to press reports, about 40 core organizations have been disabled or disabled. That's what the party spokesperson says, after the renewal, it's a natural process. But in any case, among the better-looking exits, we also find former MPs, mayors, congressmen. Well, it's all just not a natural process. Rather, a crisis phenomenon, a crisis symptom of a party in a financial, organizational and moral crisis. So anyone who expected the pre-election confusion to be overwritten by Jobbik, given the outcome of the election, couldn't be more wrong. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Crying from the benches of Jobbik: Clown!]]
u2018-06-25-27	On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Lőrinc Nacsa asked for the floor with the title "The Real Purpose of Brussels." Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-25-28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches, Clown!]] Mass immigration in Europe continues to be continuous and its consequences are becoming increasingly visible. It has now become clear that migration has become the number one European issue. In the parliaments of the Member States (cry from the benches of Jobbik: Clown!) , in the institutions of Brussels and...
u2018-06-25-29	Control yourself, Congressman, please.
u2018-06-25-30	...in Europe, the opinion that supports and promotes immigration is tense with a view to preserving and protecting its own country, its people and its culture. Where migrants have appeared, the security of everyday life has ceased or has been disturbed, and cultural and social conflicts are on the rise. In Germany, for example, there are violent crimes committed by migrants, and more young girls have already been victims of migrants' admission. Meanwhile, the pro-immigration forces in Brussels and the Soros network for migration continue to work on the import of immigrants. The Vice-President of the Brussels Commission unveiled the real purpose of Brussels the other day, and Federica Mogherini openly said that it was a united EU position that immigration is vitally important for the European Union. Brussels has thus said what we already know: they want to help immigration, not stop it. The Soros network and its allied politicians in Brussels want to make a conscious exchange of populations in Europe with financial and political interests. It is telling and also shocking that last Thursday, the Soros Empire headquarters, the Open Society Foundations called on the European Commission in a press release to take action against Hungary for adopting the Stop Soros Act package and the fundamental law amendment to protect Hungary. It is no wonder that the Commission responded immediately a few hours later, announced that it would examine the two legislations and, if necessary, take action against them. The Soros plan is being implemented before our eyes, and they have the people to do it everywhere. In the European Commission, the European Parliament, the United Nations [[Zsolt Gréczy: And in the fraction of Fidesz!]] in the civil networks themselves, but also in the EU institutions. We also see that these pro-immigration forces are attacking Hungary with full force and full scope, for which we consider it important to protect our national sovereignty, our people, our Christian culture and our families, and, moreover, our country has an increasing number of allies in this. In recent days, Italy, among other things, has announced that it does not want Soros ships to transport additional migrants to the Italian coast. It has been proven that the sea border can also be protected, and it only requires the will to do so. Last week, the Action Plan to protect Hungary, the amendment of the Constitution banning the introduction of Stop Soros and migrants, adopted by a large majority, is already being called for, since the measures taken in recent years and in recent years are powerful and effective instruments in the hands of the government in these debates. Today, the European Parliament's legal committee is also planning an attack on Hungary. The LIBE Committee wants to adopt the Soros report today, this concept report, which is full of lies, to put new pressure on the Hungarian government. They cannot and do not want to accept that we cling to the inheritance of St. Stephen, deny the Christian roots of Europe, relativity of the concept of family, and do not admit that the current invasion is a threat. Brussels is going through a tough time, as they must be watching the World Football Championship with high blood pressure, where fans sing their national anthem full of throats, live their national team in national colors, and national pride and commitment [[István Szávay: Because those troops could go out!]] After a victory or honest standing, it is significantly strengthened among the citizens of that country. It's not exactly what they want. We also know that this week there will be a European Union summit in Brussels, where tough battles can be expected. Brussels is expected to come up with further plans and continue to force Member States to accept migrants. We ask the government to explain its position on the EU summit, and we also ask the government to do everything possible to enforce the Hungarian people's will and to protect Hungary from immigration. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-31	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-06-25-32	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian government is in a lucky position, which perhaps none of the EU governments have yet to say about themselves that it has the same position on immigration since 2015. For the Hungarian government, protecting the sovereignty of the country is important, we want to decide on the affairs of the Hungarian people here in Hungary, and we reject immigration, which is not a kind of opportunity, as you have quoted the various European politicians, but a threat, and therefore it must be stopped and not organised. It is also apparent from the past days that the leaders of the European Union have completely interrupted the democratic decision-making process previously established in international treaties, not in the same way as the individual Member States, but are selective, delicacy, and which seems to be more sympathetic to the fact that they may be able to adopt or represent a workable and pro-immigration position, sometimes in a manner not known in the EU treaties, to be called to discuss whether they are being graced or threatened, but are certainly trying to persuade them in closed and secret negotiations to support the pro-immigration position of the bureaucrats in Brussels. Only in Hungary and Europe there is no bureaucracy, but democracy and the governments elected by the people, including the Hungarian government, have the opportunity to protest against such decisions. There is a rush and arrogance in the events in Brussels, as they seem to be very cramped, less and more aggressively trying to force their own will on other Member States, they do not care, they do not care that those governments are the same opinion of citizens. They themselves, by the way, who are so aggressive and hasty, were directly elected by no one, although they form a very close alliance with certain networks, including the Soros network. We are not looking for similar legitimacy, our position is determined by Budapest, Váci, Debrecen and Szolnok voters. We are responsible for them, we are not accountable to György Soros or to Brussels, but to Hungarian voters, and we will continue to do so. If you look at European processes, honourable Member, you and others too, you can see from choice to choice that the will of the people, the will of the people, will sooner or later pave the way for you in democracy. Because it may be possible, for a period of time or time, to suppress the will of the people with threats, either grace, expert governments or political maneuvers, but every four years, there will be a moment of truth, a moment of elections, and then - in Europe we can look at Austria, we can look at Italy - people's basic security needs will come to light, and people will reject immigration, replace politicians, replace governments that are not in the interests of the people, but instead were on the position of immigration, heated by some idea or material. This is also seen in the policy of the past few days. And it's also that George Soros's men are everywhere. They say they want to protect the Union by trying to make it an immigrant continent, replace the population, replace the population. And we believe that whoever does this is destroying the European continent, Europe, the European Christian civilization; and who stops immigration, protects the external borders, as Hungary does - and more and more people recognise Hungary's activities - it actually protects the European continent, European culture and European Christian civilization. It is also clear that while many people attacked the fence built on the Hungarian border three years ago, more and more people now admit that it protects the whole of Europe, even Angela Merkel. It can also be seen that, while Hungary has been trying from the very first moment to establish transit zones and to judge these immigration and asylum requests outside the borders of the country, we have also received a lot of criticism, they have said that people are in prison-like conditions, of which nothing is, of course, true - it is now apparent that the European Union and more and more European politicians are increasingly trying to follow this view that these places, which they call not transit zones, but hotspots, where applications are judged, should be outside the borders of the European Union. [[14.10]] It can also be seen that Hungary is trying to weaken with threats and various procedures. There are infringement procedures, and, from the point of view of air pollution, procedures are being launched against Hungary to prove to the other countries that, as Comrade Virág's model, they might choose a national government and refuse immigration to look forward to the example, because they are launching a campaign against them for all reasons, as they did against Hungary. For those who think about it there are no nation states, only Brussels bureaucracy and various NGOs, but nation states are not in their plans. Luckily, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian electorate feel that this is completely different. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-33	Máté Kocsis, the leader of the group, on behalf of Fidesz, will be the last to be heard in the list of comments before the agenda: on the 2019 budget of Hungary. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This week, the Parliament will start debates on the 2019 central budget. A budget always sets out policy objectives and financial frameworks that can be calculated. The Hungarian government - understanding the electoral will expressed in the parliamentary elections in 2018 - has made the draft budget for the 2019 budget a budget for safe growth. Safe growth as the most important objective to be achieved is, according to a readable interpretation of the proposal, based on four pillars: maintaining security, maintaining economic growth, supporting families and achieving full employment. Thanks to the work of the Hungarian people, Hungarian budget planning provides the stability needed for the coming years. Why is this particularly necessary, and why should particular attention be given? There are two kinds of crises in the world, one of which is the migration crisis and the problems associated with it, and the other is the economic crisis in the world and its signs. That is why it is important to have the kind of budget planning that the government has now put before Parliament. Hungary has come a long way since 2010, regaining its economic self-determination and stabilising its financial position. I would note that while the deficit under the late Gyurcsány government in 2006 reached 9.3 percent, the government expects a 1.8 percent deficit target in the 2019 budget planning. This also means that, since 2012, and so on next year, the government has met the EU's expected deficit target of less than 3 per cent, with sustained economic growth, with an increase of about 4.1 per cent; unemployment has fallen to 3.8 per cent during this period, and I am thinking of the period since 2010, and employment is making records today, while wages have been growing at an unprecedented pace for many years. Here I would argue with my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpát: if anyone thinks that the Hungarian government's economic policy has nothing to do with the rise in real wages, I think he is seriously wrong. The most important thing is to maintain Hungary's safety, financial and economic stability in 2019 as well, to continue with the tax reduction policy and support for families. Meanwhile, we are pleased to see that these are also the basis for budget planning. We also agree that the government will increase the overall reserve framework by 50 percent and the security reserve for meeting the deficit target by the same amount. We are particularly pleased that, in order to maintain economic growth, the Hungarian government spends some HUF 4000 billion on development and investment from its own resources. At the same time, a system of proportionate burden-bearing remains. He is also counting on the increase in real earnings to pay the draft budget and the pension premium, which is also a pleasure for pensioners. In addition, a 2 percent reduction in the social contribution tax leaves some HUF 100 billion to entrepreneurs. And next year, we can say that the government spends 2,000 billion forints a year to support families. We reduce the tax burden on work, and in 2019 the family tax relief for two children will double compared to the 15th. Overall, it is therefore clear that everyone will be able to make a proportionate contribution to economic expansion, families, workers, pensioners and public sector workers. In addition, the budget guarantees the security and protection of the country. For this reason, the budget for safe growth, support for families, full employment and the protection of the country and its financial stability, I trust that the Hungarian Parliament will receive support not only from two but also from several political groups, because the security and protection of the country, taking into account the European and world processes ahead, are essential and essential. I'm asking for budget support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-35	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr. Dezső Liberty to present the additional...
u2018-06-25-36	Dear Parliament,
u2018-06-25-37	[[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I was wrong. I'm sorry. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör still wishes to reply. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Because there is demand for it!]]
u2018-06-25-38	It's a counterintelligence request. Thank you for the floor. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr President, Indeed, if Hungary's budget is adopted in its current form or in a form similar to that of the present, it will be a budget for safe growth. In its planning, the government focused on support for families, further tax reductions and full employment. However, in order to achieve these goals, there is a fundamental condition, and this is security, because Hungary can only be strengthened if it is able to maintain its security and, in view of the events of the world, we have every reason to put much more emphasis on security; because the period of cheap money in the world economy is over, many European countries are also struggling with debt, high unemployment and instability. No matter what, a commercial war is being waged. This comes with the migration crisis that Mr. Group Leader mentioned, with all its consequences. The Hungarian government cannot ignore these circumstances at all. This is why next year we will provide nearly HUF 350 billion in public security, the operation and development of the police. There will be 25 billion forints for counter-terrorism tasks. In addition, from January onwards, the salary of police officers will increase by another 5 percent, which, taking into account previous increases, has already increased by 50 percent. The defense will receive HUF 512 billion, which is 85 billion more than this year's amount, and the aim is to double the defence spending in the medium term. Security aspects also need to be implemented in financial matters, which is why the budget reserve is increasing by 50 percent. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, but... you just can't see it! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Overall, we can say that next year there will be more resources in most areas, but this is exponentially true of security-related expenditure. The budgetary debate will start this week, but the new long-term EU budget will also be outlined in Brussels, and we must say that the draft domestic budget and the draft Brussels budget will be separated by a whole world. For as long as the Hungarian budget is concerned with growth and security, it supports immigration in its current form in Brussels, thus impairing competitiveness, and in the long term, it can lead to a decline in the economy. Our biggest concern with the current EU budget plan is that instead of European citizens, it would give more money to immigration and immigrants, at the expense of the classic EU funds, and all of this by making the EU register smaller because of the British exit anyway. And how much safety concerns are lacking in current Brussels thinking is well indicated by the official record that has been made public before the current EU summit. I have it here, and opposition representatives can read it, too, because they often deny these phenomena. In this, it is clearly stated that EUR 10.4 billion would be spent on immigration instead of the current EUR 6.8 billion. So we would have our hands on this matter until 2027 - because the next long-term EU budgetary framework is valid until then. [[14.20]] One of the charts where migration expenditures are referred to as investments is very talkative. So they still haven't come up with the idea that immigration can ultimately be good for Europe. We don't know what else has to happen to change that. It can also be seen from the text that compulsory introductions are still being forced. And if that were not enough, in the Brussels texts, such as the budget lines, they are not talking about border protection at all, but about border management, and we believe that we should not manage borders, but defend them the way Hungary did, while not receiving substantial support from Brussels. Dear House, To sum up, we can therefore say that, while we want to enforce security aspects in the Hungarian budget, we do not see any evidence of this in the EU plans. That's not how it is in this form. Therefore, Hungary can only be permanently safe if Europe is able to defend itself. We have said many times, and we say now that effective self-defense begins with the protection of borders. That's what you need to spend more money on, border protection. This is the most important message taken by the Visegrad Four to the EU summit. We expect tough debates, but the least we can do is get involved in these debates because of the security of this country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-39	Well, ladies and gentlemen, after we have finished not only the speeches before the agenda, but also the answers to them, I would like to ask Mr Dezső, Commissioner, to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-06-25-40	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Dezső, MSZP; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: Sándor Székely, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Sándor Burány, Dialogue; András Aradszki, KDNP; István Bajkai, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Imre László, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Antal Csárdi, LMP. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Gergely Arató, DK; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. No one came forward to speak after the agenda on Thursday and Friday.
u2018-06-25-41	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of State Secretary to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2018-06-25-42	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Tamás Vargha as State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade with effect from 23 June 2018. Budapest, 22 June 2018 Sincerely: János Áder
u2018-06-25-43	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of myself and Parliament, to wish you good work, Secretary of State, and good luck with your work. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 22 June 2018 Member Ákos Hadházy informed me that he has quit the May Other from the political parliamentary group, so the number of the political group is 8 persons. He will continue his work as an independent Member. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to act as T/503 on Hungary's central budget for 2019. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, the Committee on Budgets shall depart from the rules of the House so that the summary report and the summary amendment are amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. Without prejudice to the time limit laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article, on Friday, 13 July 2018, until 9 a.m.; the leader of any political group shall not exceed 10 a.m., the house rule shall be 48. You may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. T/503/6 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. Therefore, the decision will now be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 167 votes in favour, the House unanimously decided to derogate from the house rules. We are now deciding on three proposals to be discussed in a time frame. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the adoption of the T/503 proposal on Hungary's central budget for 2019. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to inform you that the resolution house rule is 37. In accordance with paragraphs 3 to 4 of the Act on the Central Budget, it is not possible to double the timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2018-06-25-44	Dear Parliament, The proposed timeframe is divided into 621 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 279 minutes for the KDNP Group, 263 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 194 minutes for the MSZP Group, 152 minutes for the DK Group, 145 minutes for the LMP Group, 125 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 21 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. § (2) (h): (a) if you have applied for a speech by the leader of the group, to the time frame of the group, (b) if you have applied directly, in addition to the 30-hour time frame, an independent representative shall be entitled to a period of seven minutes each. The representative of the ethnic minority invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, who spoke in the House Rules 37th floor. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2018-06-25-45	Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. I ask this House, and he agrees that we are discussing the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal for a time frame was adopted by 142 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/629 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for the year 2019 The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a five-hour time frame. The recommendation on the agenda includes the allocation of the time frame for which I ask Mr Dezső Believer to present this.
u2018-06-25-46	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 47 minutes for the KDNP Group; 44 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 32 minutes for the MSZP Group; 25 minutes for the DK Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group; 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group; and 4 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. To speak to the representative or speaker of the ethnic minority of Hungary invited by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, the House Rules shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 20 minutes, which does not include the time frame. [[14.30]]
u2018-06-25-47	Dear House, It is now time for a decision to be taken again. I ask the House, you agree that the proposal will be discussed within a five-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal for this timeframe was adopted by the House with 141 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as the T/625 on the immigration special tax. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall also include the allocation of time limits. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2018-06-25-48	The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 43 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 25 minutes for the DK Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 5 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers.
u2018-06-25-49	It is now time for a decision to be taken again. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a five-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal for a timeframe by 137 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Government has proposed that the T/532 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the visa waiver of their diplomatic, service and special passport nationals be published. The final vote on bill No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the amendment to the agenda was supported by a visible majority in this House. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote with your hands up again. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, the motion put forward by the President is now to decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee on the activities of the Public Procurement Authority during the period 1 January to 31 December 2017 B/548. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Economic Committee to negotiate and take decisions by 118 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. Dear House, We are now continuing our work with decisions; we are not deciding on personal matters today. The T/534 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Jordan on the visa waiver for their diplomatic passport holders follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/534. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 161 votes to one, with seven abstentions. It follows that the T/531 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and Hong Kong, the Government of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, on the publication of the temporary work programme for tourists will be published. Final vote of bill No 1. No amendments have been tabled to this proposal, so we are now deciding on the text of the proposal submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/531. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was unanimously put to law by 171 votes in favour. It follows that the T/535 on the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism of the Council of Europe is now under way. Final vote of bill No 1. There is no amendment to this proposal either, so we are voting here on the text of the original bill. I ask this House to accept this. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has unanimously made the proposal a law by 171 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, At 2:36 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 121. Under paragraph 4 (a), Ágnes Vadai and Gergely Arató are representatives I/622. I reject your interpellation No.1 as President of the Parliament, as the motion is not in the government's remit. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. When does the Government intend to stop the banking sector's appetite for profits? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-25-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As you probably remember, the Orbán government, which took office in 2010, tried to talk about proportionate public burdens, saying that large companies, including the banking sector itself, were involved in public burdens that were previously not proportionate, not in proportion to their profits. It is also important to stress this now because this year the profits of the banking sector in Hungary were HUF 160 billion in the first quarter, and last year their post-tax results reached HUF 694 billion. The profits of the banks in Hungary have reached record, Mr. Secretary of State, a record that we can enjoy on the one hand, because if the banking sector prospers well, we are all happy about it, but on the other hand, unfortunately, we have seen that the banks have left foreign exchange creditors in trouble, with the help of the government, there are a number of injured social groups, and unfortunately we have seen, Mr. Secretary of State, that the government has granted huge tax benefits to the banks over the past few years, not least because of this year's gain of nearly HUF 700 billion, which the banks achieved in Hungary last year. What am I thinking? For the larger banks, banks with a balance sheet total of HUF 50 billion have released the bank tax. In the past, it had a 0.5 percent key compared to the balance sheet total, now it has a 0.21 percent key, less than half the tax burden on these banks. There was also a tax on credit institutions' benefits that banks had to pay, which was completely abolished by the government, so the banks received such significant tax benefits. In comparison, however, your government has overlooked, despite a number of warnings that we have expressed year after year since 2012, that the banks have also shifted the transaction fee to the population, and that there has been an increase in transaction costs equivalent to the amount of the transaction fee for individuals and Hungarian small businesses, so the real burden bearing these measures is not the banking sector, but the companies and individuals living here themselves. I therefore ask, Mr State Secretary, that, on the one hand, you wish to do something to ensure that the banks do not pass on the public burdens imposed on them to the Hungarian people. On the other hand, I would also like to ask you if you would like to do something to make the banks tax harder than before. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] half the taxes on the banking sector were reduced, not on the working Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-51	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It highlighted the Bank's profit in 2017. [[14.40]] Interestingly, he did not mention the 2014 bank results, 2015 and 2016. In 2014, the banking sector suffered significant losses, but also in 2015 and in 2016 they had no profits. What this is about, obviously you know that. It is due to the Fidesz government's resolution of the currency lending crisis. [[Moore from Jobbik's benches.]] One of the consequences of this was that the banks had to credit the borrowers for HUF 1000 billion because the exchange rate gains were wrongly booked and the contracts, which the court said, were unilaterally booked and interpreted unilaterally. That's why it cost the banks 1000 billion forints in these three years. Honourable Congressman, If we look into the 2016 bank results, then it turns out that what you are saying is not true, that the banks' profits in 2017 became high compared to previous years, because the Hungarian private individuals, Hungarian businesses, paid the banks for it. If you look into this, you will find that in 2017 the Hungarian banks, which accounted for a quarter of their profits and a third of their profits, were able to write back impairments from the heavily trained provisions, so this was an accounting manoeuvre. Moreover, it should be said that one bank received significant dividends from foreign subsidiary banks, which had nothing to do with the operation of domestic banks, and this was due to the regional expansion of the bank. The banks themselves say that the difference between their profits resulting from interest payments, lending and deposits is decreasing. Their profitability has also been improved by the fact that banks have been able to significantly improve operating expenditure costs. So I think that this picture you're painting is deceiving, and it doesn't reveal reality. As far as the bank special tax is concerned, I would like to tell you that Hungary already introduced the bank special tax in 2010. Believe it or not, 14 EU countries have followed Hungary in this. It is true that the rate of bank tax has decreased in the last year, but you should also know that Hungary is still imposing the highest burden on banks in the European Union by 0.21%. The banks asked the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, to reduce the level of the bank tax for a reason. As far as the transaction fee is concerned, I can give you good news here, as the tax law submitted allows private individuals to carry out their financial transactions free of charge up to HUF 20,000, as well as retail transfers. With this, I think we can make some progress in this area. I believe that what you have said is not real, as you say: we do not dispute the need for a banking sector that supports stable and government economic policy for the development of the micro and macro-economic economy. Well, that's exactly what we've been trying to do over the last year to make it a functioning banking system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Hungary, which has been achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-53	I'll ask Congressman, he'll take the answer.
u2018-06-25-54	Mr. Secretary, I was talking about facts. The fact is that the banking sector made a profit of 694 billion last year, and it is also a fact that you have reduced the amount of the bank tax by less than half, while the banks are otherwise making a record profit in Hungary. But what you're saying is not a fact, Mr. Secretary, you did not save the people who were trusting the currency. If you do not believe it, then come to the nearest foreign exchange authentic demonstration, stand by my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, and ask the foreign exchange credentials how much they have been saved. I am sure, Mr. Secretary, that they will explain to you all the facts and circumstances of this salvation. I ask, Mr Secretary of State, that we stick to reality: you have left the foreign exchange credentials in trouble, hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary are in trouble; you can only repay your loans in a moaning manner, and enforcement is hanging over others' heads. Mr. State Secretary, I would ask you once again to face the Hungarian reality at the demonstration of foreign exchange credentials next time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-25-55	So, if I understand correctly, the Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[János Volner nodds.]] I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 44, with no abstentions. Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister:. The elections are over, the eviction moratorium is over: can families be put on the street again? Why is there no money to prevent the housing crisis? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-06-25-56	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In May, the eviction moratorium ended, which the government extended this year only to prevent voters from seeing the crowds of families on the streets before the elections. Today, thousands of families are again under threat of being on the streets. Of these, the largest group remains the part of foreign exchange lenders who have not been helped by public lifelines. There are still tens of thousands of them, despite the fact that many of them have disappeared from the system for banks. But not only do people who are trapped in the credit trap be afraid of eviction, but also families who can become homeless from municipal social housing and apartments overnight. Last fall, the Ministry estimated that more than 30,000 apartments or houses could occur after a successful auction, if they did not move voluntarily. This is an extremely high figure, but the reality can be even worse, because the number of late mortgage loans last year was around 120 thousand. According to experts, the number of evictions this year can reach almost 40,000, so it can bring about a housing crisis for 100,000 people in Hungary. Many times, local governments are called to account for why they do not better help poor fallen wretches. Without targeted state aid, the municipalities cannot handle this huge housing crisis, we know very well. You used the private bankruptcy facility as a miracle weapon. According to the Ministry's data, 2792 people have been granted any protection so far. Please, your private failure is bankruptcy, but by now, the International Asset Manager is completely plugged in. The government has also severely cut the social support of those living in the most difficult conditions in recent years, eliminating housing support worth roughly HUF 20 billion. Any minute now, you're spending this money on a medium or worse football player, and you can't even run on the field, instead of helping thousands of people in trouble. But I could also say "COK," because I'm sure that's what they're gonna bomb us with. Unfortunately, this does not help either, nor does it help the housing of young people who are studying and who are about to start their homes, either by reducing or reducing rent prices, nor do they create dormitory seats. And it's really outrageous that István Bajkai, who has come up with this whole pathetic and outrageous idea of banning homelessness in our constitution, told everyone to go to community service and pay their own rent and other expenses. I suggest to Mr Bajkai that you be a public servant for a month and pay for it, try to find out who can pay for your medications, your housing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And other things. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, why not do something about getting tens of thousands of people decent housing in Hungary today. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-25-57	State Secretary Tallai will answer again, please.
u2018-06-25-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Reading his interpellation, which he couldn't finish here, he put 15 questions in it. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] Obviously for me this means that you do not really ask for answers to these questions, because in four minutes it would be very difficult to answer 15 important social questions and social questions. As far as your interpellation is concerned, if I may, I would read politically that the mirror you have set before your own government policy, the result of which you are now calling for on the Fidesz government, and in this, the elimination of the social problem that you have caused. What have you created for society? In 2002 the share of foreign currency loans in Hungary was still 15 percent, which had already increased to 60 percent in 2007, after their 5 years of governance, which was already 4300 billion. By 2008, 70 percent of retail loans had been denominated in foreign currency. [[14.50]] Over a million contracts have been concluded, more than two million Hungarians have been affected by the problem of foreign exchange lending. What you did was to raise the interest on forint lending to direct people towards foreign exchange loans. They've been doing this for years because it's been very good for someone. And by 2008, what has the crisis come to, 2009 and 2010, what has the change of government come to, what is left in the country? What remains is that the social crisis caused by your foreign exchange loan, the social tension, had to be replaced by the Fidesz government. Of course, you can now say that there are 120,000 of these millions of people who still have this problem. Probably, as you said in your interpellation, these are people who have no property, property, property, or property, and have taken out the loan, and are now unable to pay. A total of 5200 real estate auctions are underway. You mentioned 750,000 executions, 522,000 of which are assets, which can be recovered, and currently 1 percent of it is being auctioned. I think the most important thing is that the government has basically solved the crisis in foreign exchange lending over the last two cycles. He did this in several steps, but the end result is that no person in Hungary today is at risk of foreign exchange lending. Today, only credit can be taken out in Hungary, which has a solid income, and there is no risk of repayment either of the family or of the creditor. I think that this is a serious result, so serious, that Hungary's answers and solutions to the problem of foreign exchange lending are recognised at international level, for example in Poland and Romania. So what your government has caused is clearly solved by the Fidesz government over the last two cycles. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-59	In return, I give the word again to Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2018-06-25-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Politically, just that I don't know who was the chairman of the central bank at the time, a certain Mr Fidesz, to whom it was ordered, is that the worse the better. They weren't ashamed of any price then, so that people would fall for it and the municipalities would fall for it. But I could also remind you of the Greek salad when the loans fell under Mr. Kósa. We reject and find the program of the social ghettoization of Fidesz morally unacceptable, which has been producing homeless people on conveyor belts for the past eight years. We also reject the fact that I can speak for the entire opposition, but on behalf of the left, specifically, to bring the homeless on the streets together with all the foreign exchange-credit housing problems you've caused. We recommend that these two problems be separated. We need separate seats, because we need four times as many seats for homeless people, and ten thousand. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] A social rental should be built in Hungary for foreign exchange-credited people. Good luck with that.
u2018-06-25-61	Congresswoman, you didn't have time to ask the questions before. Now answer me whether you accept the answer or not.
u2018-06-25-62	I don't accept it.
u2018-06-25-63	Oh, I'm sorry. So the congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the House to accept it. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 38, with one abstention. László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title "The Ukrainian Pension Business." The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-25-64	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Having understood the will of the voters in Újpest, I would like to draw your attention again and again to a subject that, in support of the signature of thousands of people, indicates what you have to do or what kind of deficiency you should have to make up for. This is that the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Ukraine inherited legal predecessors, the People's Republic of Hungary and the Soviet Union entered into an agreement in 1962 on the mutual social care of the citizens of the two countries. This convention has become the basis for the Ukrainian pension business, which is the name of the series of frauds in which the Hungarian pension fund paid to Ukrainian citizens in Ukraine has paid multiple pensions. For a long time, only a few hundred people took advantage of this opportunity, mostly Transcarpathian Hungarians who actually moved to Hungary and acted accordingly. The Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments have negotiated and prepared the termination of this agreement, but you have not tried to free this Hungarian budget since you entered the 2010 government, and you are not trying to remove this burden. That is precisely because this issue, this problem has been known for a long time in our correspondence, I have to ask over and over again the questions that arise in this area. Why did you miss the treaty? How much pension does the Hungarian state pay to how many people today under the convention? Why have you not noticed that since 2011, the number of Ukrainian citizens requiring Hungarian pensions under the Convention has started to grow dramatically? Was it realistic that the population of a few hundred small settlements along the Ukrainian border increased two to three times over a few years? Was it possible that in such villages there would be residential buildings in which 100-150-200 people could live, as indicated in the address book? How many proceedings have been initiated on suspicion of a forged authentic instrument? The fictitious Hungarian address also granted the owners the right to vote in the 2014 municipal elections. How many proceedings have been initiated on the basis of a thorough suspicion of a crime against the order of elections? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-06-25-65	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you pointed out, this agreement was concluded in 1962. There would have been a few decades before the party before your party to terminate this treaty. Then, from 1994 to 1998, they would have had the opportunity to do so for four years if they considered it such a disadvantage to resign. Then, from 2002 to 2010, both the Medgyessy government, the Gyurcsány government and the Bajnai government would have had the opportunity to do so. As I recall, you were also a secretary of state in that government, and you would have had the opportunity to act on it. But they didn't make any moves. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Of course, there is no evidence, dear Member, of what you said that this would have been prepared. They didn't do anything in this case, because this whole case was actually invented for the election campaign a few months ago. We know that taking responsibility is not their strong suit. Here, too, it is clear that nothing was done when this agreement could have been terminated by government for 12 years. This is what is now being called for in this government, at a time when you can see how realistic it is to negotiate with Ukraine, whether in education or in language, and how it is possible, in fact, to take seriously the Hungarian party's intention to renegotiate, to have a renegotiation in pension matters. You can see that Hungary is trying to settle the relationship on the issue of education from week to week in accordance with European standards, but Ukraine refused to do so. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] But in the meantime, we are trying to do everything we can to ensure that we are legitimate, which is why checks are ongoing in this area as well. Four aspects are considered by the authorities: firstly, whether the building was located at the declared address, whether this building could actually serve as a home for someone and use it as a home, whether it had been relocated with final intent, and whether it had been settled with the consent of the authorities. [[15.00]] These four aspects are constantly being examined, and these procedures have also led to results, as the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county government office held 121 such controls, the Hajdú-Bihar county government office held 38 and the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county government office also held 36 such controls. For this reason, in 17 cases benefits have been terminated, since it has been found that the person who applied for this benefit does not reside in Hungary as a way of life. In the case of applications submitted, 61 people were also found not to meet the criteria; they were not established either, since it would not have been lawful. Those who have the legal conditions, and those who have the international treaty, must be granted this. However, I would like to say that there is nothing going on about this and that there is no procedure in the case of a criminal offence against the electoral order, contrary to what the honourable Member indicated earlier. I can deny that to you, too. I would also like to say that there are obviously Hungarians from Transcarpathia who are trying to move to Hungary from war and deprivation there. This is related to the Hungarian EU membership and the state of war there. Even the True Word of Carpathian wrote that these checks are regular and they look to see if anyone is actually there. But as far as pensions are concerned, honourable Member, if I were you, I would not boast of any kind of pension. After all, you were the only government in the history of Hungary who took a monthly pension from Hungarian pensioners. Not only could they not give Elizabeth's vouchers and bonuses, they took a month's pension. And the real reason you're bringing this up is not your concern about the pension fund. The reason is that they want to instigate against Hungarians across the Transcarpathian border. Because you would not give pensions to the Transcarpathian Hungarians, but only to illegal immigrants, you would give all kinds of welfare services. This is the basis of your policy. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Congressman László Varju has the floor. I'm asking you to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-06-25-68	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Your answer is not acceptable for many reasons. On the one hand, you should know precisely that before 2010, such special treatment was not necessary, because there were no abuses. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But you should know, I've got that flash drive in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] That's what it says in the transfer and transfer documents that this was a negotiated case, and you deliberately abused the situation. [[Intercoms and sporadic applause in DK's ranks.]] And I'll add one more thing, Mr. Secretary of State. If you know what fictitizing means, then you also know that you have created a hierarchical system in which you deliberately keep people in dependent situations, who receive money for this and maintain this pension payment option for you as a purchase of votes. What you're saying is unacceptable. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-25-69	Although you didn't say you wouldn't accept it, Congressman, you said it was unacceptable... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes!]] Congresswoman, I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor. You'll be next. He said it was unacceptable. I suppose I can draw the conclusion that you won't accept it. Thank you very much. Since Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 37 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: what are they doing to solve the stench of sixty? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-70	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, It seems that the institutional system of environmental protection, built over many years, has been ignored and that the right of citizens to live in a healthy environment has not been taken seriously by the Fidesz system lately. These three minutes will not allow us to list cases in Hungary where hundreds of people live next to environmental sites, and we will now address a specific case. However, I would like to point out that the environment now operates in an integrated way in the administration system, so that it cannot be a serious supply system. I would also like to add that the last case, which has been coming back for years, has been approached in Hatvan for this reason, according to a resident, cannot be kept on the streets; if they try to ventilate at 30 degrees, they will not be in the apartment. Even though they collected signatures, nobody did anything. They've collected quite a significant number of signatures, by the way. The 60th municipality and the Eger Environmental Authority point to each other. The thing is, no matter what happens here, there's been a lot of complaints from the public over the last few years about the local government, although it keeps a smell journal and places stink traps, in Hatvan, there's actually no way to stay in the stench that's been spreading for years. But this is true not only of Hatvan, but also of Lurch, Hered, and Big Ball. These settlements have already joined forces with Sixty to do something about this situation. The Heves County Government Office has allegedly opened an investigation into complaints that have been pouring out for months, but the result of this investigation has still not been reported to anyone, even though it has been over two months. In addition, although we know what potential stink-emitting sites might be, they did not indicate that any official examination had taken place or what the outcome of this official examination would have been. Here's my next question. The first is the reason why, in this rather clear case, neither the authority nor the responsible ministry has been able to move forward for several months. What investigations were carried out by the government office, and what findings were made? What do you need to solve this problem? What exactly have you done in the past few days? And do you have any idea how the environmental authority can restore its powers in such a way that it will not be in any other Hungarian settlements in the future? And finally, I would like to ask you to answer the question in this answer and not talk about migration, if possible. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-25-71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-25-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Thank you for raising the question, and so I have the opportunity to tell you in public what is happening in Hatvan and why. I understand the lack of patience of the people in Hatvan and the neighborhood, and I must say that they are right. First of all, I would like to inform Mr President that the preservation and improvement of the quality of life of the population is of particular importance for the Ministry of the Environment. The complaint referred to by the Member was investigated by the territorial environmental authority and concluded that the complaints indicated are likely to be dealt with by Hunviron Energy and Environmental Management Ltd. It is caused by stink pollution in the waste treatment and recovery plant in Lorinc. The plant - and everyone will immediately understand where the problem starts - in its 60-hectare area between 1950 and 1980, there are many millions of cubic metres of coal-fired power plant slag, ash, and later rubber factory waste and municipal waste. Hunviron Ltd. carry out the recultivation of the area on the basis of a mandate, for which non-dangerous waste generated by the biological degradation of waste is also used. Biodegradation of hazardous wastes, railway sleepers and sewage sludge containing predominantly hydrocarbons is carried out with a single environmental permit. The regional environmental authority has checked the installation several times, in which it has identified a large number of shortcomings. Data on waste management are incomplete. The activity carried out on the site differs significantly from the permit specifications. Thousands of tons of railway sleepers, electric columns are stored in an uninsulated area, the number and size of hazardous waste emptying pools are higher than in the permit, the treatment technology carried out is not included in the permit. The amount and storage of untreated sewage sludge is inadequate and part of the accumulated untreated waste has not been treated. Due to irregularities, the site has a significantly larger stink-emitting surface than the approved site. The characteristics of the odor effect also suggest that the complaints are caused by the operation of this site. [[15.10]] In order to conclude the Authority's procedure, the regional environmental authority ordered the company to determine the mechanical, physical, biological and chemical anti-smelling measures to eliminate the odour effect of waste management activities. By 15 July 2018 at the latest, the operator shall have an accredited measuring body carrying out water measurements on the premises and in the streets affected by the complaint notification. However, in the case of the decision, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. an appeal has been lodged and it has not yet been able to become definitive. The territorial environmental authority will continue to monitor Hunviron Kft. its operation, the definition and implementation of smell reduction measures. If the situation does not change, the authority shall have the legal possibility to restrict, suspend or prohibit the activity. That's what we're going to propose. Please accept my reply, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-73	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask the Member to accept the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-74	Thank you very much for your meaningful answer. I would like to ask my fellow Members not to accept the answer so that, after the deadline of 15 July, we can make sure here together that this problem has been dealt with, and this resolution, which will then be final, solves the problem for which it is very unpleasant for the sixty people over the past period. Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer.
u2018-06-25-75	Thank you very much. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept Minister's reply. I ask the House to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 113 votes to 31, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister commissioned Antal Rogán, the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Csaba Dömötör will respond to the interpellation. And now you have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech before the agenda two weeks ago, I have already tried to draw attention to the problem of young people's migration. As is known, more than 600 thousand Hungarians live and work in European Union countries on the basis of Eurostat data. A large part of the migrants left their country after 2010. Today, the result of this process is a significant shortage of workers, as skilled workers and manual workers are increasingly working abroad. At my speech, the Secretary of State tried to list what the government had done to keep young people at home, mentioning in particular the preferential festival tax and the programme of Tamás Cseh. I, on the other hand, think that these programmes hardly keep the masses of young people who are able to vegetate at home because of housing problems and low wages. I would also recommend to my fellow Members that they read the blog "The Crossover" where our emigrated compatriots describe their fate and why they left this country. Allow me to briefly quote a few of these lines. The Gergő, who lives in England, wrote:. My experience was that a very high percentage of the salary received in Hungary has to be paid as a tax, and then what remains is to try to make a living in one way or another. I'm going to ask myself how you'd like to live in my home country again. The answer would, of course, be yes if I knew that there were appropriate conditions for maintaining my current standard of living. Zsolt Zsolt writes from Munich: I have worked as a cook in Hungary for years, under terrible conditions. In the hospitality, pay was higher than the Hungarian average in better places, but this was at a price. 15-16 hours of work, weekend work, holidays and holidays. The higher pay comes out because of the hours you've worked, not because of the outstanding salary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It also shows that the government cannot solve this problem alone. Come home, young man. The program also failed. That is why I think that we really need national cooperation here. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State that the Government is willing to set up a parliamentary ad hoc committee, together with the parties with the factions, whose sole task is to stop emigration and to develop cross-cycle public policy solutions. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2018-06-25-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer to the interpellation question that has been raised will be Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-25-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The government is open to all policy proposals. At the same time, allow me to begin by addressing your mail and your interpellation to the wrong place in the sense that the Parliament decides on such matters and not the government. So the government has no intention of setting up an ad hoc committee by the National Assembly. Nevertheless, since we consider young people to be important, let me respond in a few thoughts while we are here. Just because I would like to reject your statement about the masses of young people who can, I quote, vegetate. Honourable Member, plants are used to vegetation, not Hungarians, especially young Hungarians. Every day he is a fighter, in life he is right, he is insulting young people working to strengthen the country by talking about them like that. Besides, you don't give respect when you talk about young people, young people working abroad, as a kind of economic refugee. With the political community to which you joined a few years ago, not so long ago, you promised them that everyone could open a pastry shop in Vienna. And now they're going to be accountable to both the government and the government. But if you were serious about your idea of a labour shortage, let me suggest that you start your professional work in your own faction and in your faction. There's a reason for that. Set up a task force, if not a case-by-case committee. There he sits, Mr Sándor Burány, who has been active in the economic policy of the country for many years, sometimes as secretary of state or as minister. I'm not talking about driving her drunk, I'm thinking about her political work. Now, in his day, honourable Member, there was 27 percent youth unemployment, so one in four young Hungarians was unemployed. This has been significantly reduced, and we are now under 10%. We know there is still much to do, but the common performance of the last few years cannot be mentioned on the same page as those you have just joined. We want a country where all young people can find their calculations, including those who are now temporarily working abroad. This is why taxes continue to decrease. You didn't talk about it, but 15 percent remain the same, so family support will be increased next year. Contrary to the left, we would therefore like to continue the home creation programme and therefore continue with wage increases, including employer tax reductions. And that's why we keep the country safe, because we're fighting, our goal is that those who are working outside now, they, if they want to return home, can return to a safe country. Besides, for the sake of the facts, I would like to note that last year more people returned to Hungary than the number of people who started working abroad. So, if, in addition to the empty political attacks, you really care about young people, then I suggest that you vote for the 2019 budget. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-80	Thank you for the floor. If I understand you correctly, Secretary of State, they are not willing to set up such a committee. This is sad because it is necessary not only to talk about national cooperation but also to act. I think that every faction has very good experts, and if these factions were to meet, they would surely find a solution to this problem. I'm sorry you don't want to do this. Thank you.
u2018-06-25-81	Congressman! [[For signal:]] He won't take it. Thank you very much. I would ask all Members to say this, which is a matter of fact in the house rules, to accept it. I'm not asking you this because you're a young congressman. You're gonna have to end it, or you're gonna have to start with me accepting it or not accepting it. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 35 against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, Representative Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what does the government expect from the introduction of the immigration special tax? It's an address. Congressman Mihály Witzmann has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.20]]
u2018-06-25-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room. The president's ringing the bell.]] As we know, the Parliament discussed the so-called Stop Soros Act package already in February, but it postponed the decision until after the 8 April elections in order to allow the newly formed Parliament, reflecting the opinion of the people, to decide on this extremely important issue. Voters have therefore decided not only on the progress made in the last nearly a decade, but also on 8 April to address one of the biggest challenges facing us, the migration crisis. The result has been known to everyone since then: Hungarian people and Hungarian voters have given the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association two-thirds approval for the third time. We also know that the government has spent hundreds of billions of HUF to protect the borders of our country from the budget. It is important to stress that all organisations that support and support illegal migration increase the expenditure to be spent on defence and thus cause serious damage to the Hungarian budget, indirectly to Hungarian taxpayers. The Hungarian people have repeatedly declared that they reject the efforts to change the cultural, linguistic and religious arrangements of our country. The proposal to introduce an immigration special tax is also intended to effectively prevent such activities. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance proposes that organisations which support illegal migration be subject to a special tax. The tax should be paid by organisations which receive financial or financial benefits and, by doing so, either directly or indirectly, facilitate illegal migration. The tax rate is proposed to be 25% of the monetary or financial benefit on which it is based. The objective of the measure is clearly to ensure that the organisations funded by György Soros are not allowed to continue their activities in the current form. In fact, these organisations do not want to help those in need, but to organise harmful activities, to encourage them, and in the meantime report our country, Hungary, by spreading lies. His so-called activists, although there are only a few hundred, are trying to make themselves appear as if they were representing the entire civil society in Hungary. These organisations question the legitimacy of nations, the traditional, genuine European values for families and the institution of marriage, and support illegal migration. It is therefore justified to take action against their activities. Dear Secretary of State, Although we do not know exactly how much money George Soros's organisations or others will give to such organisations operating in Hungary to support migration, we can only assume that this amount should not be small. It can also be expected that support organisations will try to avoid this kind of tax liability. I respectfully ask how these organisations can be caught up with the law and what the state intends to use in the future the proceeds from the taxation of immigration aids. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation of the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-25-84	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the 2016 quota referendum, the Hungarian people expressed a clear opinion on what they wanted about mass migration: 3.3 million people said no to the resettlement of illegal migrants. This decision, supported by the political stance, was confirmed in the spring parliamentary elections by their votes cast on the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association. The Hungarians have decided, and they have clearly indicated that they do not want Hungary to become an immigrant country. Therefore, the government will use all means to protect the country from illegal migration, not only with the border closure and criminal policy instruments, but also with financial and tax policy instruments to combat the organisation of migration. Protection against illegal migration is a significant financial burden for the Hungarian budget, thus indirectly for the Hungarian people, which cost nearly HUF 300 billion. It is not compatible with the principle of common burden-sharing that society as a whole should bear the costs incurred because the activity of some organisations entails an increase in immigration and thus an increase in public tasks and expenditure. For this reason, the government proposes that a new payment obligation should be introduced in order to bear public burdens: immigration organisations should pay a special immigration tax of 25 per cent. The immigration special tax is included in the tax package submitted last week. The general debate of the proposal will be launched by the Parliament on tomorrow's sitting. If the Parliament adopts it, the law shall enter into force on the 30th day following the announcement. The immigration tax obligation contained in the bill covers the financial support of immigration assistance activities in Hungary, regardless of the nationality of the supporting and immigration assistance organisation, and the financial support of the immigration assistance organisation registered in Hungary, regardless of where this organisation operates. The proposal specifically defines the concept of activities to facilitate immigration. This includes media campaigns, seminars, participation in, networking and operation related to the promotion of immigration, as well as propaganda on immigration in a positive light. The basis and extent of the tax are adapted to the impact of the immigration assistance organisation, and therefore the tax is based on financial support linked to immigration, such as money transferred or movable property. The tax must be taxed, i.e. the taxable person must determine the payment obligation, confess and pay it. The tax is therefore primarily the organisation granting the aid, which must declare to the recipient of the aid that it has fulfilled its obligation to pay the special tax on immigration at the latest by the 15th day of the month following the transfer of the aid. If you fail to make this declaration, the recipient of the aid will become a tax entity. The recipient of the aid, if the tax return and tax liability of the immigration assistance organisation is revived due to failure to provide a declaration of support, shall be fulfilled by the 15th of the second month. The special tax is managed by the tax authority, the amount entered in the budget [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] may only be used to perform border protection tasks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think that this proposal by the Ministry of Finance is another eloquent proof that the Government of Hungary, as has been the case, would like to seize all possible means in the future in order to protect our borders, protect Hungary and protect Hungarian people. The immigration special tax, as we have just heard, is now trying to associate itself as a new addition to the legal, physical, lively border lock, the recently adopted constitutional amendment, or the so-called Stop Soros legislative package, as a so-called tax policy measure in order to protect Hungary's security and prevent illegal migration. I particularly welcome the fact that we can use the amount of this money for border protection, because, as we have just heard, Hungary has spent about HUF 300 billion on Hungarian taxpayers' money to build border fences and border protection. Therefore, I naturally accept the thorough and detailed reply of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-25-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Does the government have a role to play in protecting the independence of the judiciary? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The answer to my question would be evidence in a well-functioning rule of law: yes, it is the government's duty to ensure the independent functioning of justice and, above all, of the courts. Unfortunately, this is very unclear in Hungary today. The National Court Office and its single-person leader have received many criticisms in recent years, for which unfortunately no professional responses have been received, and the government has said that it has nothing to do, since Hando Tünde has a control body, a quasi-boss, the National Judicial Council, and then it does its job. Well, OBT seems to have done its job recently, and it turns out quickly that it can't actually exercise any control over the operation of the OBH. The tension escalated until the president of the OBH, with a noble simplicity, betrayed the judges who dared to criticize the government's judicial plans. According to Tünde Handó, treason was carried out by turning to an organisation financed by Brussels. Madam President, you shared your comments on Kossuth radio, and I quote: I regret that some of our fellow judges are running abroad, forgetting their responsibilities for the community and betraying their country. In particular, the OBT stated that it would have turned to the European network of judicial councils. But if he had turned there, would he be a traitor? Is the country certainly equivalent to the incorruptibility of the Fidesz government and the Hando Tünde? However, the main problem is the fact that the President of the National Court of Justice does not recognise the control of his work from the constitutionally designated body. In its communication, OBT was concerned that Tünde Handó called the body governed by public law to be supervised by the Fundamental Law arbitraryly illegitimate and refused to issue the information necessary for the exercise of its supervisory powers. OBT also pointed out that the president of OBH did not respond to the criticisms expressed by OBT in its supervisory powers on any occasion to date. [[15.30]] For these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: do you really not think the government has anything to do with the operation of the courts and the situation that has arisen? Is it considered okay that the head of the courts of one person calls the judges of the body responsible for his control treason and renders the operation of the National Judicial Council impossible? Who do you think in Hungary today is the person or body who has the right to verify the activities of Tünde Hando and to establish any violations? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. Thank you. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2018-06-25-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Völner, State Secretary, will answer your interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, judicial independence is a prerequisite for the rule of law of justice. This is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, but judges are subject only to the law, cannot be ordered in their judicial activities and can only be removed from office for the reasons and procedures laid down by law. Fortunately, what you spoke about, Mr President, was not about events that violate these principles, but about a dispute within the judicial sector in which the government is not competent to assess this, as has been emphasised several times. Mr President of the OBH's objections to the composition of OBT were not mentioned, so that his objections to the organisation, its composition, its compliance with the law were not included in the interpellation. As I said, it's not our place to judge, but the scale has two pans. So, as I mentioned, there is a dispute within the judicial sector that the current OBT, with its reduced number, meets the criteria set out in the law or not. According to the president of the OBH, he's not fit, he can't do his job, we need a new election, it's one side of the medal. On the other hand, we rarely study that the 2012 judicial reform has fulfilled its objective. In practice, it has established a functioning court system, a more modern and effective course of judgment, and the European Commission has published for the fifth time this year the efficiency, quality and independence of the justice system of the EU Member States, which it also mentions, the so-called Justice Scoreboard, once again carried out in the forefront of the Hungarian courts. So the dispute in itself, which you mentioned, does not call into question the effective functioning of the Hungarian courts. We are indeed facing an unfortunate situation. Indeed, in such a situation, the government or even Parliament must think about the need for action, because any sudden intervention or legislative action may only make things worse. So, stressing that judicial independence is the standing star of democracy, as Minister has repeatedly mentioned, I would like to mention that the judicial portfolio is one of the outstanding judicial tasks of precisely this issue, that the new Fundamental Law and the results of the past 30 years of the Hungarian judicial system will be carried out and that the government will be informed about this. To this end, Minister, a working committee has been set up, composed of recognised university teachers, judges with considerable experience and the Minister of State for Judicial Relations of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice also intends to discuss the proposals prepared by the Working Committee with representatives of professional professions before their government referral. In this work, too, the portfolio considers it extremely important to engage in constitutional dialogue with the legal society and the parliamentary parties, including your party. I hope that, as a result of working together, there will also be reassuring, professional answers to the issues you have raised, and hopefully we will be able to overcome these problems for the future by means of legislation that will stand the test of time. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Gábor Staudt to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-25-92	Thank you, Mr. President. The reason I can't accept the answer is because according to the press, the situation came up because Tünde Hando asked the OBT members to resign, and that's how the situation could develop. By the way, you could also hear that disciplinary action is threatening those OBT members who showed up at the OBH and tried to get the data. In fact, you did not keep yourself so far from the courts when criticizing the Curia, and would also remind you that neither the Justice Commission nor the OBT received professional answers from the Hando Tünde, while, by the way, OBT previously, when it was complete and fully operational, stated that many of its appointment practices were not in accordance with Hungarian law. By the way, this has already been stated by the Court of First Instance. Mr Secretary, the question is that if the President of the OBH, let's say, is committing an abuse of office, then no one can say that this has happened, because OBT seems unable to do so, and the government is staying away. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-93	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now it's 15 hours 37 minutes, we should break it off, because the interpellation period is over, but the house rules also oblige us all to ensure that every faction has the opportunity to speak. In this spirit, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister responsible for innovation and technology, will be followed by Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa. It's an address. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-94	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As is known by many, at the end of May the European Commission presented its next EU budget plan for 2021-2027. The plan has a sensitive impact on Hungary's medium-term future, through the decline in EU funding, on the everyday lives of Hungarian families. With regard to international relations, we can say that the common interest, common sense policy, is contrary to this, since 75 percent of Hungarian exports today are directed at the EU, which is a very close signal, and Brussels should be aware of this. Today, the EU is facing new challenges, such as dealing with the migration crisis, economic development, the inclusion of new Member States or social problems such as unemployment, especially youth unemployment and the deterioration of competitiveness, catching up with the challenges of the digital era. However, this requires funding at EU level. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I would like to point out that the EU proposal, which, overall, would transfer funds from poorer states to the richer, is totally unacceptable to us. [[15.40]] As long as Hungarian fiscal policy focuses on maintaining security, maintaining economic growth, encouraging investment, supporting families and achieving full employment, the Brussels body would reduce the resources allocated to the Eastern and Central European Member States producing higher economic growth, according to the draft. This, according to news in the press, would mean a decline of around 25 percent compared to the current budget cycle, at this year's prices. Although we will have to count on declining budget resources due to Brexit in the next period, it is in our interest that the EU budget does not punish performance. The economic development that has taken place in recent years, and the rise in living standards, should not be a disadvantage to those countries who have failed to comply with economic policies that violate budgetary discipline and EU law. In addition to preserving financial stability, we must continue to guarantee Hungary's security in the coming years and fight against illegal migration. The management and encouragement of migration, the draft allocation of customs revenue, the unified tax policy against the interests of the Member States, is detrimental to Hungary. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: what does the Hungarian Government think of the European Commission's proposal? With the interests of Hungary in mind, what means does the government have against the implementation of the unfavorable draft for us, and can we expect the support of the Visegrád countries and the other countries affected by it, or to join forces in achieving our common goals? Thank you very much, and I look forward to the honour of your reply, Mr Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow government Members to take their seats and to listen to the reply of Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-96	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The draft budget drawn up by the European Commission for the next budget cycle will be welcomed with serious reservations and criticisms. This is a political proposal, a disappointing political proposal. It is shocking that, according to the Commission's proposal, those states, those Member States who have failed to comply with budgetary discipline, while having a higher standard of living than Hungary, i.e. the richer, would have money from the poorer. We do not consider this a fair proposal, so it is unacceptable for us in this form. It is not fair to punish countries who have inherited a more unfavourable historical situation, but who have done well with their opportunities; to punish those countries that have done well in recent years and have used every opportunity to make their country a success, to set their nation on a rising path. It is not right for Member States to ignore the struggle of performance. This goes against European values, the original meaning of the word solidarity. The Hungarian Government's position on the matter is firm. We were empowered by the overwhelming majority of Hungarians to keep their interests in mind. We can't let that happen. The draft EU budget is anti-contractual and anti-immigration, political and non-Community. It is not in the interests of Europeans at all, but in the interests of strengthening European cooperation. Honourable Congressman, The world is changing. Since the previous vote in the European Parliament, the continent has faced many new challenges. The bureaucrats in Brussels have often given an incorrect answer, and what they represent today is no longer a policy on European values. Brussels has not learned anything in recent years, and this is reflected in the draft budget. It is unacceptable that, while more important areas have fewer resources, support for migration and bureaucracy is not reduced. There is money for self-destruction and their own pockets, and there is no money for Europeans. It can't be, it's not acceptable. The importance of the interests of the European people is already reflected in the wording of the draft: instead of border protection, they talk about border management and border management, so as to cover the migrant pro-migratory nature of the proposal as much as possible. We must protect Europe, and we must insist that the money that can be used for people in Europe does not serve to support the future and thus further sharpen the crisis. Honourable Congressman, The EU budgetary negotiation period, which will start in 21, is now beginning. Not only Brussels, but also the Member States are developing their own vision. It is clear that we did not receive the draft with criticism alone, and there is no one who would like it very much. During the next period, each participant will present its own ideas, and there will be a long journey to consensus. We have a great deal of work ahead of us, we're facing tough negotiations, where we're counting on our allies. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-97	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-98	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It is regrettable to hear that in Brussels a budget has been put together to support immigrants instead of European families and European businesses. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] It is also disappointing that the representatives of opposition MEPs, socialists and DK are constantly working to shorten the support for Hungary's budget and have repeatedly advocated tightening up and reducing the resources due to Hungary. [[Interventions in the DK faction.]] What I can tell you, on behalf of the pro-government factions, is that we will support the government in those fights, in those debates, which is necessary to enable them to conduct the most effective negotiations in the resources due and per capita to Hungary, and thank you, I accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the response to the interpellation. This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now it's time for immediate questioning time. It's 15:46. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Mr. Márton Gyöngyösi, Leader of the Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, He went to the press that you had recently been to a medical clinic in Budapest, but instead of waiting your turn, he beat the line and even sent out the person who was in front of you at your doctor's. However, if you had waited your turn, you would have had plenty of time to reflect on the situation, catastrophic situation and the causes of this. Anyone who has been to a Hungarian health institution knows and knows these reasons and sees the problem well, but here are some data from the KSH, some official data. Between 2010 and 2016, the number of unfilled medical posts in the field of outpatient care increased by more than 26 percent. This is clearly the reason why doctors and health workers migrated from the territory. In 2016, however, nearly 400 thousand interventions took place in this area. According to the profession, outpatient care, general health care, must be developed in order to ensure that hospital care can be relieved. It is absolutely absurd that in 2016 only 70 hospital beds were available for 10,000 inhabitants. The Századvég, your home research institute, says in a study that there has been no systemic improvement of outpatient care and basic care; in the field of prevention and health development, there have been island-like initiatives, but there have been no long-term sustainable models that can be extended nationwide. Because of these circumstances, patients are expected to wait for several hours, except, of course, Prime Minister, who is on demand. I ask you, when do you start dealing with the health situation after all these fake problems? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, my fellow Member, for your interest in my personal condition. From the little story you've quoted and what you've told me in a lie, of course, I'm about to correct two things. The first is that I only use VIP services if absolutely necessary. I go to the hospitals and the doctors where all the other Hungarians go, and I know exactly what the situation is. What you're not telling the truth about is that it's part of the story that I asked the waiters if they'd let me go forward. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] And after they had let me go forward, so I went forward; only for the sake of discernment and decency. [[15.50]] As far as the health aspect of the case is concerned, I can tell you that we are spending HUF 550 billion more on health now than on the 2010 change of government. As far as the number of unfilled medical sites is concerned, I can tell you there, after your question was as to how credible the government's policy was, that I remind you that the doctors' work abroad was organised by a representative of Jobbik for money and actively. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] So much for Jobbik's credibility. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-103	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-104	Mr. Prime Minister, I know that the health situation is a serious legacy, but you've been given a historic opportunity to govern this country twice by two thirds in a row. You didn't do anything compared to that. From the looks of it, Prime Minister, you don't have a lot of ideas for the next four years. They don't move too well in this area. You could say, Prime Minister, not only the pants, the jacket is a little big for you when you're dealing with this area. It would be good if they not only dealt with creative matters, but also started to deal with the cases and things that affect Hungarian voters in a mass, which are of great interest to them. That's the health situation. This is in the first place among the issues that are a matter of meat and cardinality for Hungarian voters. Most of our fellow Hungarians are most concerned about the health situation and the problem of the related emigration. Please also pay attention to this in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-25-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-106	I readily agree and accept the claim that, in terms of health care, the coat is a little big for me. Therefore, I am not taking on health ministers' duties, but we have asked one of the best professors in the country to address this issue. So feel free to look for him in the next period with your questions. You'll get professional answers. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-107	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear Prime Minister. I ask you to answer some questions as our people's bright-eyed leader, about which I have doubts. I can't decide if you really are deceiving people, or if you're being misinformed by your colleagues. Did you know, for example, that while you were photographing workers at the Buskás Stadium building in a way that humiliates your predecessor Mátyás, your government is trying to take away the cafeteria benefits from the employees, embarrassing the lives of millions of hardworking Hungarians in many cases? Did you know that while your government is trying to raise the salary of ministers to HUF 5 million a month, nearly 60,000 people in ministries, schools and hospitals are not paid the minimum wage, and without compensation, they would not even receive that 138 thousand gross monthly? Did you know that while you are pampering with the extension of the Pécs-Budapest railway, and we hope that you will reach Parndorf to make everyone happy in the village, the journey time on the Pécs-Budapest railway is now more than five hours? Finally, please help me to interpret the words of one of your important advisors, László Parragh, that, I quote:. It should be noted that white workers with Christian roots are out of stock, this is not a realistic reserve from which people can be brought into the economy. And knowing your infinitely simple policy, these are rather embarrassing words, not only for an opposition representative, but also for Fidesz voters, I think. So, please, in your words, which are now the main source of law, help your deceived people to find their way around. Please respond.
u2018-06-25-109	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for a two-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-110	If there's a question, I'll answer it, I'd rather stick to correction now. Did I hear you say Vienna-Budapest? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó says yes. Sic!]] I just traveled on the Vienna-Budapest railway not too long ago. That's not five and a half hours. You've been tricked, you've taken the wrong train. Check the ticket next time. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] Maybe back and forth, that's a possibility. Nobody takes the cafeteria away from people. The amount of cafeteria does not change. No single forint will allow people to use less cafetheria next year than they can this year. So you're not telling the truth. I don't think taking pictures with the workers is a crime. The salary of five million a month is a lie, which is not the case, such a decision has never been made before, and I am not aware that Parliament is preparing for such a decision. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-111	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then you should be aware that what I asked you at the beginning of my question is indeed the problem, Prime Minister, is that you are being misinformed. They want to tax 44 percent of the cafeteria, which will mean that companies won't give it to people. You didn't answer the question about the 60,000 people who don't even get the minimum wage, what's going on? Also be informed: your ministers can earn up to HUF 5 million on the basis of their bill submitted. Mr. Secretary, I also have some bad news. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Prime Minister!]] I'm sure he also asked the trains to let you go forward, but the ordinary citizens of Pécs are really traveling 4-5 hours before they can get to Budapest from Pécs if they even get on that train. László Parragh didn't comment either. I suppose this could be the most embarrassing thing for you. Listening to your answer, I can only tell you on behalf of the Hungarian people that I wish you a merry Christmas too.
u2018-06-25-113	A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Prime Minister if he responds.
u2018-06-25-114	It's customary to say something at a time like this. If I may, I would just like to say that in the first four months of the year, until April, wages have increased by more than 10 percent in Hungary. If you look back over the last few years, the wages have been rising for years. Of course, we want wages to be higher, but this must be in line with the country's economic performance. If we look at how successful the government has been in the country's economic performance and the simultaneous increase in wages and compare this with that of previous governments, then our government has no reason to be ashamed. Both economic performance and wages are constantly increasing and will continue to grow in the following year. A corresponding budget has been submitted. Of course, there is an opportunity to insult the government and the Prime Minister in the Hungarian Parliament. As has been the case so far, we will humbly acknowledge this in the next period, and we will appeal to the voters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-115	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why do they want fewer graduates? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Gergely Harvesto: Yes.]] Congressman Gergely Arató indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as responding. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-116	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Firstly, I am glad that I did not ask Mr Prime Minister, because he would obviously have removed responsibility for the government's education policy as he did in the case of health policy. So I might get an answer from the Secretary of State as to why the government wants fewer graduates. According to a 2014 government decree, a person who does not have a secondary language examination can no longer apply to higher education institutions from 2020. In fact, the intention itself would not be debatable or even bad, as it would allow students to rely more on foreign language knowledge in higher education institutions, only today no conditions are created by the government. According to the survey of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, half of the students applying today do not have a language exam. This means that your measure would reduce by half the number of students who have a chance to continue their studies in higher education. There is no doubt that the intention is to be citizens of the country who are not disturbed by the diploma, not to be disturbed by too much knowledge, but only from your propaganda television and a few sentence posters. However, this is not in the interests of the country, but in your rather poor political interests. That is why I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why they want to push young Hungarians out of higher education. [[16.00]] Why do they want students from the hard way not to learn? After all, they are the first ones whose parents cannot afford the costs of language examination and language learning. Why do you want to make a diploma a privilege in Viktor Orbán's Hungary? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-06-25-117	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is difficult to believe that your words are authentic when you say that you should not be a privilege, but that you should have a diploma for everyone, when you were exactly the secretary of state when a tuition fee was introduced for all young Hungarians. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] You are now concerned about the children of small-money families, but when you introduced them, you said: "The training contribution" - that's what they called the tuition fee, because they thought that people believed it more, but they couldn't fool people - it's still an important element of higher education reform. So you have built the conversion of higher education on tuition fees. Without the encouragement of students, the transformation cannot be successful. In your opinion, the tuition encourages the students. This is how you thought about how to access higher education. What we want is for as many people as possible to acquire qualifications in higher education, or in middle-degrees, which are suitable for their abilities, and then to fill a position from which they can support their families. And indeed, those who are going to college today will be in a global competition, because they will not only compete with their classmates later, but also with German workers and South Korean workers, who will certainly gain skills in international literature. You know the benefit of knowing a foreign language, and sometimes it is essential for higher education. And you know how many thousands and tens of thousands of young people are stuck somewhere between the absolutarium and the graduation because they didn't have their language exams, and they're struggling with it to this day. It may be worth just looking around the opposition benches and finding such situations of life. We want young people to go in and have their language exams. We have provided schools with a testable amount of preparation time, for students, because we believe that these six years are indeed an important standard, a sufficient time to prepare for obtaining a language exam. Of course, those who pass the right level of high school graduation will also jump this bar. And that's why we gave young people free access to the language exam so that it wouldn't cost them money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-120	We also agree with Mr State Secretary that language learning is important both in education and in the labour market. But if that is the case, the solution is that if they help schools, they help higher education and they create a functioning language education system in public education and higher education. Keeping students out of school doesn't make them more qualified. And as a matter of fact, it was you who spoke pompously about the language release program, and you are speaking now, while there are actually nearly 100,000 students who cannot receive their diploma without a language exam. What kind of language exam is this? ! And I am quite honoured that Mr. Secretary of State is following my work so far backwards, but it has escaped his notice that, in the case of our administration, students should have paid a few tens of thousands of forints and the students in need would have been exempt from it. You, on the other hand, are asking for nearly 100 thousand forints or even hundreds of thousands of forints for reimbursement or cost. It's a shame, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-25-121	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-25-122	I see we're not just on foreign language issues, but we're not on the same front either. The 150,000 HUF Master's tuition fee for me is not a few thousand forints, but 150,000 forints, Congressman. Don't try to embellish with a zero in hindsight what you started. And obviously, you wouldn't have reduced it, you would have increased it year after year. On the other hand, during our administration, the proportion of higher education graduates in Hungary increased from 17 percent to 20.5 percent. [[Gergely Harvesto: Because we signed them up! It's dropping now, Mr. Secretary. The president's ringing the bell. A statement from the opposition: Guard!]] No, Your Honour. As a result of the steps you have been saying for eight years, even nine years, that you will reduce the proportion of higher education graduates in Hungary, these measures have increased from 17 percent to 20.5 percent. I am sure that this step will increase the competitiveness of Hungarian diplomas and the value of Hungarian diplomas. We'll give help to all high school students to get the right language exam. And one of the key keys to the success of the future Hungary is to have the most competitive degree in international terms for Hungarian students. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zsolt Semyen: Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of László Lóránt Keresztes, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. And I'm asking who's gonna ask the question. [[Erzsébet Schmuck stands up.]] Thank you. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The Hungarian economy is not sustainable, almost entirely dependent on international economic processes, the automotive industry, the performance of multinational companies and EU subsidies. The sustainability of the economy, the position on many legs, could be ensured by small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, but in your economic policy, they can only be suppliers of multinational companies. In recent years, the government has not taken any meaningful steps to change this situation or even increase dependence, especially from the automotive industry. However, since 2008, we have known that the automotive industry has been one of the first and most serious victims of all international crises. Prime Minister! There are dark clouds gathering over the world economy, György Matolcsy said last week that the economic crisis is already here, knocking here and not just going to happen. You claim that you are prepared for everything because you have raised the reserve. But this 55 billion HUF reserve increase will not be enough for anything in a crisis situation, as tax revenues could be reduced by hundreds of billion HUF. True, there is still a provision of HUF 100 billion, but this was actually set aside for raising the public sector's wages and improving hospitals. Of course, it is feared that if things get worse, there will be no increase in wages and hospital development for government employees. I would like answers to the following questions from Prime Minister. How do we prepare for the economic crisis? Is the government planning a crisis? Does the government aim to reduce the dependence of the Hungarian economy on the automotive industry? Are you planning to favour Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises rather than foreign large companies? In the event of a crisis, what about the promised increase in wages for public workers and the development of hospitals? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-06-25-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-126	I am now answering, thank you very much to the Member, although all these issues are in the debate on the budget, which is taking place right now in front of this House. We can talk about serious things in two minutes, although it is not easy, but we have several hours of parliamentary debate, why not discuss these issues there? In any case, what I can tell you is this: this is an old legend, you have repeatedly said that you are not disturbed by the unreality of the claim that the Hungarian economy depends on EU subsidies. I would like to draw your attention to the simple fact that every year the net support that Hungary receives from the European Union is EUR 4 billion, EUR 4 billion, in which everything is included. On the other hand, the annual performance of the entire Hungarian national economy last year - the current number, as it was an increase, must be higher than that - is EUR 114 billion. How can you say that a Hungarian economy producing 114 billion GDP depends on a 4 billion-dollar injection? That's a frivolous statement. I suggest that if we are to talk seriously about the relationship between the Hungarian economy and the European Union, we should rather ignore these legends. As far as automotive dependence is concerned, there our tactics are different from those in which your words would lead us, we do not want to bring out the workers working in the automotive industry, but we want the car industry to become as modern as possible in Hungary. That is why we are also building a world-class test track, which we hope will be unique in Europe for the next generation of cars, and we are installing infrastructure for this. What does that mean? This means that I still believe - I think it is a matter of fact - that Hungarian workers are among the best workers in the world. If the investors came here, they'd come here because they had the best workers in Europe, otherwise they wouldn't bring their factories here. Why should these people be taken out of these factories, they should be trained more, rather introduced into the technical knowledge of the next generation of vehicle production. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-127	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For a moment, Congresswoman. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2018-06-25-128	Thank you very much. Then I hope very much that the Prime Minister will be here and will be involved in the budget debate, and then we can really have a meaningful dialogue on these issues; because a budget actually reflects the economic policy of a government. I remember, Prime Minister, perhaps at the end of 2015, when EU aid was reduced, GDP decreased in the first quarter of the following year compared to the same period of the previous year. But the problem with the car industry, Prime Minister, is that if there is a crisis, people will not buy cars first. So what are we gonna do if we just stand on one leg? We would very much like the government to take it seriously not only orally, but also give very serious practical support to small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. We also remember that a multinational company receives more than ten times more support for job creation than a domestic small and medium-sized enterprise [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But we also remember that large companies reduced corporate income tax by 10 percent, leaving 170 billion in their pockets while small and medium-sized enterprises had to farm the minimum wage.
u2018-06-25-129	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-130	Thank you very much. It's gonna be hard. In corporate tax incentives, the reverse is true, so for a long time, large companies paid a higher percentage of tax under corporate income tax than small companies. When the Hungarian economy was strong enough to bring the tax to the same level, we did not raise the baby, but brought down the larger ones. I thought that was right. The approach that you regularly apply is regularly reflected in the statements and documents of your party, it is very foreign to our thinking, it is that they are constantly trying to confront Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, partly with large enterprises and partly with foreign investments. Both are present and healthy in a healthy economy. Today, however, the ratio is not healthy in Hungary, so the space of small and medium-sized enterprises must be increased, but not by turning against the big ones and making a policy towards the big ones, but by developing small and medium-sized enterprises. If you carefully read the budget for the year 19 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You will find the exact marks of this in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-131	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: the question of 2 trillion forints! ? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Orbán Party President. Two billion forints... my microphone won't ring!
u2018-06-25-133	Congressman - I took the floor - you are in the honour of speaking in the Hungarian Parliament and the notary of the Hungarian Parliament. You volunteered when you took the position of notary to honor everyone's dues. This is President Viktor Orbán, who has the power of prime minister, and therefore the address is "Mr. Prime Minister." It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Please keep this to yourself. Here you go. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-134	As a memo, I will, of course, give you the proper respect, and, as a deputy group leader, let me call the interpelled and the question as I would like. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Mr. Orbán! - Will you do it? Mr. Orbán? (Influence in the pro-government benches. ) There's nothing in the house rules... [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Sit down!]]
u2018-06-25-135	Congressman! I can't do anything else if you refuse to accept my instructions, I'm forced to withdraw from you, and you won't have the opportunity to tell me your immediate question. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-136	Under the rules of the House, I cannot use insulting and indecent terms to my fellow Members, nor do I do that, unless being president of Fidesz is an indecent, insulting thing, that is for you to decide. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But then let's ignore the title.
u2018-06-25-137	Congressman, in Parliament, you can only interpelel or question someone on the basis of their position. The house rules make that perfectly clear. You'd better read not only the house rules, but also the parliamentary bill. If you've read the two [[Dr. István Apáti: One red after two yellows!]] Then he'll be able to decide his duties as notary, and I won't send him down from here. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-25-138	If the two minutes start again, I'd be happy to call you Prime Minister. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Miklós Soltész: You are not in the market! Dr. István Apáti: Guard!]] Okay, time's up. So Hungary loses HUF 2 trillion, HUF 2000 billion because of the Fidesz regime. Hungary is losing HUF 2 trillion because the EU will no longer allow Fidesz to steal EU taxpayers' money in Hungary without any consequences. Hungary is losing two trillion forints, because they will no longer stand by and watch them not be able to spend well the money they are not stealing. [[Sándor Font: Who do you support in this debate?]] The EU will no longer look at how they hold their hands for European money, but they do not ask for European culture, European solutions, European solidarity. [[Rumble, rumble in the pro-government benches.]] Hungary is losing two trillion forints because Fidesz is destroying the common EU foreign policy. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] But let us not be mistaken, above all, that we are punishing corruption, that we are not joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, or that the Fidesz government is not joining us so that they can steal further along with Péter Polt's assistance. The question is, if there is only time for the so-called Prime Minister to take responsibility for Hungary being punished now, in the near days, in weeks to HUF 100 billion, and soon to HUF 2 trillion. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you for the answer in advance.
u2018-06-25-139	Please read the Fundamental Law, okay? ? If you do that, there's a chance. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: You answer next week!]] I am now asking Prime Minister, who is a real Prime Minister of Hungary, how he wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-06-25-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am happy to answer, given that this issue is not a matter for opposition representatives, but for Hungarian voters to decide who is the Prime Minister, so I am of course happy to answer. ♪ To make you feel better ♪ [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: No!]] I also draw attention to the strange fact that this question was submitted in writing with the signature of Sándor Burány on MSZP letter paper. Congratulations. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] Compared to this, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Even so, that is so, and that you are sitting here as a half-percent party and a representative of a party with a faction, of course, I would be happy to answer to you, if I can understand the question, given that at this moment Hungary has not lost or will not lose any forints in the debates with the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-141	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-142	You know perfectly well what this is about. We will lose two trillion forints in the next EU budget cycle, but I didn't have time to tell you because of the little interlude. [[Rumble and clear from the pro-government ranks.]] this part of the question, which has not otherwise been submitted, has been submitted only with its address [[He's using his fingers as a quotation mark.]] Mr. Prime Minister. So, unfortunately, you were wrong about that, too, and this question was not submitted, only its title, the two trillion-dollar question. The question - once again - is whether to take responsibility or try to get out of responsibility behind some conspiracy theory again. The question is that András Lánczi was telling the truth when he said that what is called corruption is the main policy of Fidesz. Are you really planning to continue the government around theft at the cost of losing EU money in the next cycle? Thank you.
u2018-06-25-143	I'll give the floor to Prime Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-144	The answer is not directly related to the meaning of the question and can therefore be answered. What is perhaps the public's interest in this nonsense, if you will allow it, is that Hungary is losing EU support in the next seven years' budget. We are not talking about whether or not you lost in the seven-year-old who is running now, as I understand it, you did not mention that, because we are not losing there, but we are talking about Hungary losing funds in the seven-year budget that will start in 2021. After we don't have anything yet, there's nothing to lose. At this moment, the budget is being set up in the European Union. The budget is drawn up by the representatives of the Member States, on the part of Hungary the Hungarian government. I suggest that we all study the rules on this. The next seven-year budget of the European Union, just like the previous ones, is drawn up unanimously by the EU prime ministers. We'll have plenty of ways [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] consult on this, and Hungary will give its word and support only if the budget is appropriate for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-25-145	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear House, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Another Balliberal scandal? It's an address. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2018-06-25-146	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Bence Tordai first made a rather surprising statement in the relationship between reality and the various false news. The only reason I'm bringing this here is because my current immediate question is that at the time of your vassal, there have been serious thefts that the European Union wants to reprimand us. Partly astounded and partially accepted, one reads that eight years after the fall of the socialist-liberal government coalition, another skeleton emerged from the closet. After the metro 4 case, which, as we know, is the biggest corruption scandal in the Union, Kinga Göncz, a MSZP politician, is now the main character of the new telephonic, because the foundation he created was also a member of one of the two companies where OLAF found a very serious irregularity and fraud. The strategically connected Pillar Europa Nonprofit Kft., of which Göncz's foundation was also a member, and BME-Infokom Kft. that researchers and other workers were employed together for their projects financed by budget funds. According to an OLAF investigation launched in 2015, the two companies set up regional offices to obtain as much EU funding as possible. But in reality, these workers have never worked in the offices on which the subsidy was entered. The 13 employees were also registered in each office while working in the Budapest office space. They were only instructed to appear in the rural office during the project inspection. OLAF found around two dozen organisations involved in the case. According to the report, companies have committed nearly 12.5 billion fraud. I ask Minister what the consequences will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-25-148	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is a case worthy of mention, and it is not by chance because OLAF has revealed it, nor can it even be said, even though OLAF has revealed it. This is not about a value-creating investment, it is about the fact that in 2015 two companies set up regional offices aimed at accessing the sources of support. Although in principle 13 employees should have worked in Etyek, Bicské and Bet, they were in the offices of companies in Budapest, if at all, and appeared only at the time of project control in the rural offices. What we see at the moment is that, on the basis of the available data, these branches have served no other purpose than to obtain money through regional aid projects. This is why the European Union Anti-Fraud Office conducted investigations against Pillar Europa Research and Education Nonprofit Kft. and BME-Infokom Innovator Nonprofit Kft. As a result of the investigation, the Bureau found that there was an irregularity or suspicion of fraud, and recommended that we pay back 100% of the projects and almost HUF 8.5 billion in total. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office launched proceedings in February 2018 for 31 projects. Pending the conclusion of the investigation, the European Commission will suspend the initiation of a financial correction procedure. It is true that the former Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Socialists is directly linked to both companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-149	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, please.
u2018-06-25-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, It seems that Ferenc Gyurcsány's former minister had his boss's warnings in mind, and the two companies lied in the morning, night and night. Nothing proves this better than the fact that, according to the documents that have come to light, nearly 2,000 false statements have been made about where the work is carried out by the employees whose salary is now being reclaimed. Of course, there may be a legitimate question as to who these employees are. 1300 false contracts have been found. There is also information that not only OLAF, but also the NAV Directorate-General for Crime, found budget fraud worth HUF 9.7 billion, which is a particularly material disadvantage. The question is who these people are, that would be good to know, and that someday the socialist scandal chronicle will be over. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-151	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-06-25-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I would simply like to comment, of course, on the findings of the OLAF investigation in itself, and even with reservations, since we should not forget that more than 50 percent of OLAF investigations start against the seven countries that do not wish to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Here, however, we are confronted with factual allegations, indeed serious abuses. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, in this case, the Balliberal press and, by the way, the representatives of the factions sitting against me are not rushing to the person concerned, Ms.Kinga Göncz, former Minister, to ask how this could have happened, why it should have happened, in the offices where people were supposed to be working to draw funds, and why this illegal activity could have caused harm to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-153	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You said in your February year review that we are anti-communists and patriots. Allow me to make some rebuttals about this. We believe that if you were really anti-communists, there would have been no Óbudan Lukács György Street, for example, the Szabó Ervin Library in Budapest, the Zoltán Schönherz College, the László Rajk College of Sciences, or the XIX. Károlyi Mihály High School, district. If you really were anti-communists, then why are you still maintaining the false cult of the Moskovita bastard, Imre Nagy, who legislating Stalin's memory, the Germans in Hungary and ordering the attic sweeps, so why don't you clean up your statue from here to the Statue Park, and put it back in its place the memorial of the Red Army and, more specifically, of the victims of red terror? But you didn't even have the courage to finally clean up the pillar of the Red Army from the space of Hungarian freedom. While millions of Hungarian pensioners are in poverty in Hungary, while former communist leaders can still receive luxury pensions, hundreds of thousands and millions of luxury pensions. You, Prime Minister, claim to be an anti-communist, tolerate people in your party and government, such as your own family members, Charles Sita, who is an enthusiastic informant, or, for example, the former Minister of State, László Tasnádi III/II. But there are also plenty among the service providers of the Fidesz party state, who served the former party state, MSZMP, as well as the former CEO of the CÖF, László Csizmadia, István Stefka, former employee of the Népszabadság Party Life section, and András Bencsik, and former agent III/III, president and director of the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, László Lehel. Prime Minister, who else has something like this to hide in your environment? When is the government finally willing to release the agent lists and agent files? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-155	Congressman! In this question, you have also done something that the new Parliament has already included in the law implementing the merits of 1956 in Hungary. I now address the Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-156	Of course, it is not right to share your subjective impressions with the audience when there are specific questions here, but let me say so much that betraying national radicalism that you have committed does not justify the calling of a sword and that cannot be replaced. As far as the specific issues are concerned, however surprising this may be for you, the government power has its limitations; do not ask me to do what the local authorities have to decide. [[16.30]] There is only one matter that I think may be worth highlighting from your voice for moral reasons, and that is the situation of Imre Nagy; although this is not an item on the agenda for our meeting today, I would nevertheless like to ask more respect for the executed Prime Minister. I had the opportunity to try to speak directly in a speech and to make order on this complicated issue, and I just want to say that when not only a Prime Minister, but any Hungarian citizen, who bears responsibility, is in a position to choose his country and death, and he chooses death so that he can stand up for his country, and only by his death can he stand up for his country, and therefore he does not run away, but takes on what must come, is a human attitude that, regardless of all political views, this country, which is politically divided, worth recognizing and appreciating. I would therefore like to say that Imre Nagy's views, of course, most of the people sitting here probably disagree at all with his role in the Communist Party, but Imre Nagy did not deny the revolution, but took on the Hungarian people, so that he bought his ticket to the nation's respectable leaders. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-06-25-157	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-158	My question concerned, first of all, agent files and confrontation with the communist past, Prime Minister, you did not give me any answers in this regard. By the way, you can refer here to your own '89 predecessor, Prime Minister, there are few things I can mention that you once believed in life, and you wouldn't deny it. Besides, not only in symbols, but also in the exercise of power, the previous system is far too far from you. We have already reached the point of becoming a member of Fidesz for a job as a rural cleaning lady, the right has been once again made a servant of politics, the media has been invaded, the public media has become a filth, a government propaganda, and the discrediting of the opposition, your prosecutor's office, advocates crime instead of persecution. We have come this far, Mr Secretary of State, sorry, Prime Minister - by the way, our discussion is not about our credibility problems, but about yours, because I asked you about this - that there is only one authentic anti-communist party in this Parliament, and that is us, Prime Minister. Your government... [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] While Fidesz has previously defined itself as an Atlantist party, you have now become the number one European minister of Russian interests. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-159	Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-160	The congressman wandered into a complicated and difficult context. It is worth a conversation, I think, but a minute will not be enough to have continuity, and if so, what kind of Soviet Union and Russia is it; I would suggest that we separate these two. If you can't, ask a certain MEP who can help you with this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-161	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask an immediate question to Minister Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister without a wallet:. Where are the programmes that embrace diaspora and sporadic Hungarians? It's an address. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-25-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, In parallel with the change in government in 2010, a radical change in national policy also took place. The foundation of national politics is now that we think in universal Hungarians, and the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin and diaspora are also an unavoidable part of the universal Hungarians. This is why, five years ago, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, embracing diaspora Hungarians, started with 47 scholarships, which last year already sent 115 applicants in 21 countries with the aim of strengthening the cultural and linguistic identity of the Hungarians abroad and extending the Hungarian language education, strengthening the links between diaspora and the Hungarians of the mother country. In parallel with the Körösi Csoma Sándor programme, in the spring of 2015, the Ministry of State for National Policy of the Prime Minister's Office launched a programme to support the sporadic Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin, the Petőfi Sándor programme, which covers the territory of the former Monarchy. It affects Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and South Poland. In these countries, Hungarian organizations, churches, educational institutions have defined areas where we can benefit most from our scholarships, essentially with the aim of strengthening the identity of Hungarians who are losing weight in sporadic areas, helping the existing Hungarian communities outside. This year's 75 scholarship work aims to strengthen the identity of Hungarians who are losing weight in sporadic areas and to help existing communities. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Based on what has been said, what goals have been achieved? How have opportunities been broadened for both the participants in the scholarship programme and the Hungarian government? Where are the programmes that embrace diaspora and sporadic Hungarians? I look forward to the honour of your reply, Deputy Prime Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-06-25-164	Honourable Congressman. First of all, I would like to thank you for your question. The fact is that, if we look back historically, the Hungarians of the diaspora were always step-alongers, which has a very deep historical reason, namely that in the Kádár system the diaspora, emigration, was treated as an enemy, because they went to the West partly after 1945, then in large masses after 1956 and during the Kádár system. First, we restored the Hungarian Permanent Conference, where the Transylvanian, Highlander, Transcarpathian and Vojvodina represented themselves in the same rank as the Hungarians of Transylvania, Transcarpathia and Vojvodina, and even created the Hungarian Diaspora Council precisely so that the special aspects of diaspora would not be secondary, should not be placed in parentheses. We have restarted most of the Scout teams, the old ones have been renewed, Hungarian newspapers, journals, youth publications have been published, and the focus has been on teaching the Hungarian language. I would just like to point out that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Croatia or even Fogaras we have restarted the teaching of the Hungarian language, otherwise in the framework of Sunday schools in the entire diaspora and emigration. Here I would like to congratulate you on the successful Hungarian language exam of the young people of the diaspora in Montreal. We have created libraries, such as a Hungarian library of 4,000 in Portugal. There's folk music and folk dance classes going on. And for you, as a pastor, it is of particular importance that an agreement has been reached with the Reformed Church and the Catholic Church to send pastors to the diaspora, or secular people who provide Hungarian faith. Through the websites, through the National Register and the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor and Petőfi Sándor programmes, everyone can monitor these programs tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-165	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2018-06-25-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. You have just said precisely that there has been a paradigm shift in the area of national policy, and I would say that there has also been a paradigm shift in the area of national policy after 2010. To bring the budget here: the budget for these programmes has grown tenfold in the area of budget support, economic programmes have already started in recent years in cross-border areas, the support of cultural, religious, educational, civil society organisations and institutions has widened. Of course, all of this is extremely important, but I think that it is not all money, but at least as important what kind of soul, heart and attitude the Hungarian government is giving these budget subsidies. So I think that the Hungarian model of national policy has also been strengthened, it has also been created because it is also effective and strong, because we are not only talking about budget support, but also about the background that is reflected in the heart, soul and thinking. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Semjén Deputy Prime Minister is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-25-168	Thank you very much. Perhaps it is worth noting that, in connection with these programs, it is not only important that the Hungarian state supports them, but that we aim, for example, through the National Register, to bring together the Cleveland Scouts with the Girl Scouts, the folk dancers in Sydney, let's say, with the Košice folk dancers, to surround the world with blood vessels, capillaries, or, if you like, hair roots, so that Hungarian life is as organic and tight as possible in terms of the entire diaspora and sporadic Hungary. And I am pleased to report that, not least thanks to the Hungarian language teaching and the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, only 140 thousand citizenship statements have been made in the diaspora, which serves to reunite the nation with public law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2018-06-25-169	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why do scientific and intellectual workshops have to be destroyed? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. With all due respect, you'll accept the recipient's identity. [[On the sign of Zsolt Gréczy:]] Thank you very much. The congressman indicated that he would accept Mr Bence Rétvári as a replyer. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor, please.
u2018-06-25-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian Academy of Sciences is in serious danger. Now we are in the ninth year of the Orbán government, that, instead of consolidating political relations and trying to ease the anger and tension in the country, they are trying to put their hands on the freedom of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, its intellectual workshops, according to the worst Bolshevik traditions. I'm not saying this, of course. I'm just a mouthpiece for the various workshops of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I doubt...]] Or even the president, if you don't mind my saying so. It is quite simply that they themselves say that the transfers in the Finance Act are nothing less than the abolition of the independence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the autonomy of the creative workshops that work in it. From the budget, they want 70 percent of the budget of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to be directly placed under the government, and the workshops that were created as a movement workshop, I would add, during our time of government, intend to place them under state guardianship in their entirety. These young researchers raised their voice and wrote a joint statement about the fact that this cannot go on and protest against the reduction of autonomy and the freedom of research, so I call on the government to take into account the need for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, its autonomy, and not to destroy you who are constantly banging your breasts on behalf of the nation, the legacy of István Széchenyi. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-25-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said in my introduction, will be heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. State Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2018-06-25-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't think you're the mouthpiece of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. That you are the mouthpiece of the Bolshevik tradition, there is a little discourse between us, but more so than the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. This isn't the first time you've spoken in the case of the MTA, or it's not the first time you've written on paper. I am also pleased that you have said about the period before 2010 that we are our government. On 24 May 2006, you wrote a report in Népszabadság about your governance and reported your government's position on the Academy. Here I would not read some of the adjectives here, which you put on paper at the time, on 24 May 2006 in Népszabadság, only the conclusion that your government has drawn in the report that according to you, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences - we do not say, nor our current position - I would like to record - but you wrote - from your pen - that it does not help creativity and competitiveness and that there is no innovation management. That's what you wrote by translating a member of your government on May 24, 2006. And now you're talking about the opposite in Parliament. Another news of your governance back in 2008 was that they wanted to introduce academic law to change the functioning and structure of the Academy. On the other hand, we do not use such adjectives; we do not say such judgements; we do not use such dehonesting terms in connection with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences as you and you do. For the sake of Hungary's competitiveness alone, we believe that if there are three sources of innovation in the government, with a total value of HUF 70 billion, the value of HUF 29 billion in higher education institutions on the one hand, the value of HUF 12.7 billion in the National Research Fund for Sciences and HUF 28 billion in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on the other hand, it is worth sharing this with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] its economy should be as innovative and competitive as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-25-174	Thank you, Mr. President. On the one hand, Fidesz and KDNP would be the last one from which I would accept a lecture in any Bolshevik case. On the other hand, I think that if you remember that cycle, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences may have had discussions with the government, but as I indicated, in 2009, the government that created these Lendület workshops, which were new sources of innovation for Hungarian scientific research, was still in operation. Don't forget, it's 2009. And you've been ruling for almost nine years now, and you're still pointing back. Not to mention that during that period there was no mention of anyone wanting to take away the independence or autonomy of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I am not saying it now, but the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the leaders of these Lendület projects say that you want to destroy the freedom and independence of Hungarian scientific life, not counting the damage it will cause. But there will be other research that you will order. I'm sure there'll be Elena Ceauşescuk, who'll explain what new research is according to the Orbán government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They achieve great results. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-25-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-25-176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't remember the times you referred me back to, but I guess you've learned a lot from that. As I recall, the youngest member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was President Lovász, and the second youngest in recent years was Minister Palkovics. Fortunately, when the two of them sat down and discussed each other as real scientists, they did not hold a press conference in this manner, and they are not trying to take this process in this direction. Now you're trying to sit on it as a party politician, and you're putting sentences or ideas in the mouth of respectable academics that aren't real and that didn't happen. Here, two long-known academics working together or having knowledge of each other's research are trying to create a better construction for the country. We hope that this design will be the best, because our goal is to invest 1.8 percent of GDP in innovation by 2020. This cannot be used as effectively in a fragmented institutional system as in a single institutional system. That's all we want, and we don't want to interfere with anyone else's autonomy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We just want to serve the country's goals. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-177	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 4:48 p.m., and we're done with the immediate questioning hour. Now we're going to move on to the questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Why not take action to ensure that the Hungarian worker is not a disposable biorobot? Or when will there be effective OSH supervision in our country? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor, please.
u2018-06-25-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was also outrageous that, at the hearing of Miklós Kásler, who was leading the Ministry of Human Resources in the future, only three or three minutes were given to Members to express their views and ask questions. This is ridiculous in the case of the peak ministry under the control of health care, the social sphere, education - so to say, the most important human capital systems -. In addition, in addition to a nice-sounding cliché, people did not get anything else, so I'm going to try again to get concrete answers out of one of the competent ones. At the time, Minister, at your hearing, you have repeatedly put faith in the idea of a work-based society, which is not a problem, if it is valued, not considered a labour animal. However, the new Head of EMMI has also rejected the resolution in principle, saying that the Ministry of National Economy is responsible for this matter. [[16.50]] Employees' rights have also been made flexible in an admirable way by the IMF, i.e. they have been systematically emptied during the last eight years of Fidesz and trade unions have been weakened. In other words, workers have been disincentived, at most, to move away, because if they are seen as maids in many places, the law does not yet bind these people to nuggets. So it is no wonder that millions of Hungarians' everyday experience is that they are working under poor working conditions, vulnerable, and not only because of low wages, but also because of this hundreds of thousands of people migrated. And before the answer is written about Jobbik, who is moving to the left, I would like to say that we believe that strengthening the interests of Hungarian workers is not commie stupidity, but a legitimate national ambition and objective. To touch one area: in the previous cycle, even in the presence of a huge vision [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The number of accidents at work increased by one third. I ask you if you will undertake to reduce this to the original level by 2022 through effective measures and by providing enhanced trade union powers, i.e. by a third. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-180	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! I would like to inform you that Hungarian workers are not biorobots, and there is effective occupational safety supervision now. The special form of representation on OSH is the legal institution of OSH representatives. We have, by the way, implemented this confirmation with your support in the summer of 2016, when the Parliament supported the broad amendment of the OSH Act with a large consensus. One of the key elements of this is that companies of up to 20 people can choose a OSH representative from among themselves instead of 50, and as a result, the number of OSH representatives has doubled in Hungary. Trade unions and other interest representatives can and do much to improve working conditions, and I believe that they are doing so. At the same time, one of the prominent forms of consultation of employers' and employees' representatives, the Competitors' and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government, and the National Labour Protection Committee are also in place. Our country's OSH strategy is under construction, as in 2016 the government defined 22 areas where there is work to be done. Obviously, one of the most important parts of this is the reduction in the number of accidents at work. Well, I'm happy to inform you, although all accidents are unfortunate and sometimes tragic, but the number of accidents has increased to a lesser extent in terms of the performance of the economy and employment, and the number of fatalities has decreased over the last three years. Our colleagues pay particular attention to controls in agriculture and construction - unfortunately, this is where most accidents occur. The government's ambitions, legislation and - and what is very important - the creation of safe OSH conditions can contribute jointly to the effectiveness of employers. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-25-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Sándor Szabó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-25-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I suppose the Secretary of State will answer. Secretary of State, I've been approached in my host hour these days with a problem that, I think, concerns not only that citizen of Szeged, but thousands of people. In fact, the point was that he was still a foster parent in 1993 to raise a severely disabled, 85 percent disabled child in his home for which he was otherwise awarded a care allowance under the child's right. His complaint was how to remedy the fact that if the child becomes an adult, although otherwise there is no change in his condition, so he remains severely disabled, after the end of post-care care care, the young adult will be left with nothing but institutional placement. He also objected to the fact that he was willing to continue caring for the disabled child in his home, but after the child's foster parenthood ceases to be an adult, the current legislation does not consider him to be a close relative, so there is no benefit for him, which is supposed to be a serious burden on living together. With this complaint, the citizen of Szeged also contacted the Csongrád County Government Office and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights contacted your Ministry, and back in 2015, the State Secretary replied that he would be examined and prepared for a new III on social management in 1993. the amendment of the law, according to which, in the interests of the disabled young adult, the safe financial conditions and legal framework for further care in the foster family will be established at the joint request of the young adult and the foster parent, after the end of the post-care care provision. After that, I ask you, Mr Secretary, how have you made any progress in amending the law, wondering whether you have prepared how the amendment of this law stands. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2018-06-25-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. As you assumed, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is indeed a life situation, not only in this case, but also in cases such as this, where attention must be paid, because it really is people who care for the person who, as you said, needs the help of another person, up to 85 percent or even less, in their own homes, so we have tried in recent years to recognise it financially. Obviously, our moral appreciation for the people who are willing to do so is enormous, and they are doing so in their own home for years or decades. This is why it was important to change the regulation of home assistance on the one hand and home care, care and care fees on the other hand in a positive direction. In the case of home assistance, it is now available to a much larger circle, to 107,000 people instead of 75,000 people, and with a lot more caregivers, instead of 5700, it is 12 thousand people who help others heal in their own homes. Those who receive a care fee because they care for someone in need in their own apartment also tried not only to increase the basic and increased benefits fee, one from 28 thousand to 32 600 forints, the other from 37 thousand to 48 900 forints, but also to introduce a new category, the special care fee, which is now 58 680 forints, so if you cared for a more serious relative in 2010, you will now be able to get 63 percent more for that 37 thousand forints, 58 680 forints. We would like to increase this further, because this amount has something to do with raising it, and we would like to do so. The life situation that you have said is also a special life situation, where we try not only to provide assistance in the care fee, but also afterwards. Where someone's got their own [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He raised his child, we knew in the pension there, to show this as a 50 thousand HUF pension subsidy, but we are confident that we can introduce similar benefits in more and more areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Székely, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: "The evacuation of the country continues undisturbed? It's an address. Congressman Székely has the floor. Here you go. Mr. Sándor Bodó will answer. We don't say that in this genre...
u2018-06-25-186	But you will.
u2018-06-25-187	I will.
u2018-06-25-188	All right, I understand, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You don't get to pat your own shoulders about how high wages are and how much you raise them. These wages were only 190 thousand forints on average last year, and you hardly want to make a living. The price of an average panel apartment and two of these are hard enough to save in a lifetime. The problem is that this increase in wages, this small one, is not a consequence of the economic development: investments are pangas and our competitiveness is constantly deteriorating. On the other hand, you - according to the most careful estimate - have driven 600 thousand people out of the country, and the shortage of labour is, of course, upsetting the price of labour, the wages. With rising labour costs, entrepreneurs are forced to increase their prices, but international competition limits them. Therefore, import prices should also be increased, and the National Bank is the instrument for this, which constantly weakens the exchange rate of the forint. The deep flight of the forint is not a destiny, but a planned process: you took over the government with HUF 260, and next year the HUF 340 exchange rate is not excluded. They are therefore releasing inflation, which will largely take back the increased wages. And since social incomes are far from keeping pace with wages, the consequence is further disruption, poverty, and the continuation of social divisions. So the quality of life continues to deteriorate, which puts new pressure on emigration: half of the high school students want to leave after graduation. So they made up the vicious circle, which will only end with the move that the last one who leaves turns off the lights. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State: how do you intend to interrupt this circle, or do you wish at all, or do you already have a buyer for the empty country? Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2018-06-25-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Sándor Bodó will answer the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-25-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Recent employment and activity data indicate processes which are just contrary to the country's evacuation. The reality is that, as a result of demographic trends, the country has a population of 100,000 less working age, but this should not be confused with migration. I'm suggesting some KSH data. According to the latest measurement, the number of employees has increased by around 750 thousand since the government shift in 2010, with 600 000 of them working in the competition sector. As a result of government measures, 436 thousand people have been returned to the labour market and the employment age population has an activity rate of around 72 percent. These are specific data, Congressman. With regard to people living abroad: well, the region has the smallest emigration rate, but more importantly, more than half a million out of the 600 thousand indicated left the country before 2010. Between 2010 and 2017, there were only 93,000 migration losses, while last year's data already indicate a reversal of the migration trend. For the first time in the previous year, for decades, more people have come home than they have gone, and this is certainly a very joyful thing. Obviously, the most effective way to keep the workforce is to improve working conditions and increase wages, which is also being done by the government. Since the change in government in 2010, real wages have increased by more than 30 percent, while, if you take child preferences into account, this increase is 36 percent. The Hungarian economy has moved to a new growth stage, and I must very much deny what you said that there is no investment, as investments have increased by 17 percent. Country security, real wage growth is expected over the next period [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They also have a positive impact on the return of foreign workers to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior if you have withdrawn the residence permit of the money launderer of the Assad regime? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter will take the floor and then Secretary of State Károly Kontra will answer. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-25-192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. One of the targets for sanctions reported by the United States since the summer of 2016 is a Syrian citizen named Atiya Khoury. He's one of the most important moneymen in the Assad regime. According to the sanctioning documents, it deals with currency exchange and delivery of cash. Due to the Syrian civil war and the brutal violence accompanying it, the Assad regime has become increasingly isolated financially, so the Khoury-run network has played an important role in maintaining the system. Through this network, for example, the Syrian government could pay for fuel, and after the transactions, one received a commission. The sanctions documents also indicate that the Syrian man moves cash between Syria, Lebanon and Russia under the instructions of the President of the Syrian Central Bank. I personally requested information from the Immigration Office regarding the named Syrian citizen. The head of the Immigration and Asylum Office, Zsuzsanna Végh, officially admitted that Atiya Khoury bought a settlement policy in 2014, and therefore received the residence permit. He then applied for a Hungarian residence permit, and received it at the beginning of 2017, but the office did not allow me to look at the files during my visit to the file. According to Zsuzsanna Végh, Director-General of the Immigration and Asylum Office, the Hungarian authorities did not find any security risks during the security inspection and raised any objections to the acquisition of the Syrian man's residence permit, which is absurd in itself if the Hungarian authorities are unable to detect an international criminal, but it is also outrageous that the Director-General confirmed on my question that they do not intend to withdraw the residence permit of this criminal. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] I would like to draw your attention to this, Mr Secretary of State, but you are aware of the fact that the Immigration and Asylum Office has a legal obligation, if such information is acquired, to revoke the residence permit of its own motion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, I'm asking you, have you withdrawn the residence permit of the Assad regime's money launderer, this criminal, to travel freely in the Schengen area? If they didn't, why didn't they do it? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-25-193	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-06-25-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to clarify that, to my knowledge, the Director-General of the Immigration and Asylum Office has not made a statement that you mentioned in your oral question. I also suggest that you consider, with great respect, honourable Member, the extent to which you are aware of the personal data that you have as your representative and for which you have a duty of confidentiality, should be made public. I can assure you that, for all applicants, the administrative authorities involved in the procedure for issuing a national residence permit have identified and assessed the relevant circumstances and, where justified in the light of the circumstances identified, a negative position of the competent authority has been issued. The withdrawal of the residence permit shall be subject to the conditions set out in Annex II of the 2007 Act. In the cases provided for in law, the conditions laid down in the law apply. The Counter-Terrorism Centre shall act as a administrative authority at the first instance in the procedures for issuing a national residence permit at the request of the determining foreign police authority and shall give a position of authority on the issue of the national security of Hungary by the establishment of a third-country national. The TEK will only give a contributing position if there is no terrorist information on the person concerned that would have led to the establishment of a risk factor. I can reassure the congresswoman that the authorities and offices acting in these cases always act according to the legal requirements, in accordance with the national interests of the Hungarian country. If the congresswoman is really interested in the security of the Hungarian people, then support the government's actions in this regard. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-195	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why can they do humiliating work during the renovation of the wood-destructive Balaton railway, while Budapest's agglomeration rail transport rots? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2018-06-25-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The renovation of the southern part section between Szántód-Balatonszentgyörgy, which was finally built for 72.3 billion instead of 55.5 billion in the notice, was increased by 30 percent at the moment of the contract. R-Kord also received the partial renovation of the northern coastal railway line of 23 billion. This is a very important word, because this railway line is in very bad condition, but instead of modernising the entire sub- and superstructures, safety equipment, stations, platforms, passenger information, they are focusing only on the renewal of the overhead line, so that in the future electric locomotives that are much heavier than the current diesel train will be on the old track used to the death. So, while the Balaton railway line is being rebuilt in the midst of serious logging, there are major problems with the agglomeration railway transport in Budapest. Trains are moving almost slowly on several tracks at a speed of 10-20 km, for example after Cinkota, towards Csömör, but also on the Danube line there is an average 15-minute delay for trains, and trains are very crowded lately, and it would be important to set up more trains, as more people use the train due to the renovation of the M2. But I could also mention the train station in Zuglo, where tens of thousands of people cross every day, and it looks like it's been bombed. So while much more money is being spent on railway renovation, there is not enough money for more important renovations. [[17.10]] That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State why they are doing half-work in the renovations in Balaton, and when there is enough resources to improve agglomeration rail transport in Budapest, so that we can travel quickly to the capital under modern conditions. Thank you for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-06-25-197	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-25-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The railway running on the southern shore of Lake Balaton during the summer periods is the second busiest railway line in Hungary, on which, despite this - I would like to draw your attention - half a century ago the last major track modernisation before 2010. Since 2010, the entire infrastructure has undergone a comprehensive renovation from Kelenföld to Székesfehérvár, i.e. in suburban traffic to Balatonszentgyörgy and Kaposvár for more than 200 kilometers. During the development, electrification or reconstruction of railway lines, the possible removal and thinning of vegetation in the immediate vicinity of the railway shall be carried out only by law. The current Ministerial Regulation regulates not only the size of the safety zone to be established along the electricity line, but also the way in which vegetation is planted within that zone. The North Balaton railway is electrified by environmentally friendly means, using a towing system. The investment will also reduce environmental pressures in residential and recreational areas in terms of exhaust gas emissions and noise. With electrification it is also possible to operate modern motor trains. Of course, the government pays particular attention to the development of the agglomeration in Budapest, the investments in the region. The modernisation of the Kelenföld-Székesfehérvár railway line was completed in 2014 by improving the conditions of the Budapest metropolitan rail transport. From May 2018, modern motor trains will be running on the refurbished, electrified railway line on the Budapest-Esztergom railway line. In 2017, the development of the Kelenföld-Százhalombatta section began, followed by work on the Százhalombatta-Pusztaszabolcs and Rákos-Gödöllő-Sixty sections. So you can see that the government is paying attention to these lines. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-199	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Tapolczai, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How do we support people with changed job skills? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Tapolczai is the one who should take the floor.
u2018-06-25-200	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Fidesz-KDNP aims to increase the employment rate of people with disabilities, so that as many people with disabilities can work on the open labour market.In 2010, this employment rate was 18 percent. To this day, it's 40 percent. We aim to increase this employment rate in the coming years, in line with the national disability programme and the European Disability Strategy. It is also in the interest of a national economy to ensure that as many people as possible participate and create value in the long term and to provide jobs for as many people with disabilities as possible. National advocacy organisations and service organisations representing people with disabilities will help and help these people to work in as many areas as possible, through various professional programmes and through their professional activities, with programmes and job placements to promote labour market integration. They shall also be assisted by the State in the form of budgetary support each year. Two of the results of the measures taken in recent years would be particularly highlighted. One is the rehabilitation card. If someone has this, then no social contribution is required. The other is an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. As a result, this amendment exempts the provider of services up to the EU threshold from the scope of the Public Procurement Act in the event of the employment of people with disabilities. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] My question would be what further plans the government has for increasing employment. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-25-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have mentioned, it is an extremely high achievement that the employment rate of the disabled has risen from 18 percent to 40 percent. The government has been, and will continue to aim to promote the employment of as many people with disabilities as possible. If I look at how this was achieved with a rehabilitation card, I managed to achieve a tangible result in a year when the number of people employed with the rehabilitation card increased by 8,000. This is now around 36 800. At the beginning of last year, there was also an increase in the number of beneficiaries with B2 and C2 ratings. This has also been an important step forward in recent years, but the fact that, of course, the framework that can be used for this has also been felt has increased by more than HUF 7 billion in recent years' budgets, so we can now provide sheltered employment to some 37 thousand people. At the beginning of the cycles, it was important to adapt the supply system, introduce complex qualifications and increase open labour market employment opportunities. There was also a time limit and other administrative obstacles, but the Member was curious about the future in particular on his question. On the one hand, I can confirm that we continue to encourage this kind of employment with disability-friendly jobs and other awards, but perhaps even more important is the T/627 on the House's table. Legislative proposal No 60, which regulates the social contribution benefits for persons with a reduced health status of less than 60 per cent. This will simplify the procedure, and there will be no need for a card exchange. We hope that the growing resources, the declining administration, the increasing incentives and this bill, which also includes simplification, will further improve the situation of people with disabilities if they want to move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-203	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 17:17. We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a post-scheduled speech:. Vane is the future of the Csepel Workers' Home? It's called the 2nd. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-25-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I said the first part of my speech two weeks ago, and I hope that Mr Szilárd Németh, Minister of State, stayed in this Chamber to give me a reassuring answer to both my two weeks ago and my speech. I hope you will be supportive.1920. The Csepel Workers' Home was inaugurated on 14 March 2007. This famous cultural house was created by public will. The implementation of the objectives of public education, the smooth functioning, is seriously threatened by the absence of state aid, which has been missing since 2010, and the absence of State aid since 2016. Several times the management of the Csepel Workers' Home, the foundation, the curatorium, the director, has turned to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself, Mr. Member, Mr.Péter Hoppál, and Minister János Lázár. They turned to help several times and were constantly rejected. In 2016, a letter was sent to the Secretary of State, Prime Minister, and questions were asked to apply at all for the operation of the Csepel Workers' Home, at all. They were given the answer, and received the reassuring answer from Minister János Lázár and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, that, of course, because this long-standing institution is needed and that they will naturally receive support. John Lazarus wrote that in a letter. [[17.20]] They were then appalled when municipal subsidies were withdrawn after 2010 and in 2017 they reached the point that they had not received a penny of state aid. In 2018, before the elections, it was found that the State also rejected operating aid for 2018. They're running the facility all the time. Mr President, you know very well that local residents are happy to come to this institution, they are happy to participate in the work of the institution, and they are now able to provide very, very hard work with the state task of public education that this institution is obliged to perform. Now they not only beg for local government support, they beg for state aid, but they would like to take advantage of the one-percent subsidies, from entrepreneurs and, of course, from the residents of Csepel. It's getting harder and harder to do their job. Help me, Secretary of State, because in two years' time, this institution will be a hundred years old, so that we do not have to turn to the 100-year holidays to close this institution. This institution is needed. This facility was built by the Csepel workers. You know better than I do how this institution was created. Then I ask you, if you have stayed here today to help us talk about the future of the institution, in accordance with its old famous past, present, so that it can work for the satisfaction of the people of Csepel, and we can say that it is to our satisfaction. Mr. Secretary, you're not going to tell me that this house was being acquired by the lex worker's home law, are you? Right before the elections, the Curia made a decision in which it condemned this legislative initiative. I would very much ask the Secretary of State that we should now really talk about how to solve its operation, how to return to the period before 2010, when he also received the municipal aid from the Csepel Workers' Home, and also the state aid that he could carry out the task of saying that it is a state task that this institution carries out every day. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-25-205	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Szilárd Németh State Secretary will respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-06-25-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to quote a book published in 1964. [[Read:]] The center of the organizational life of the work in Csepel was the Csepel Workshop next to the WM Factory. The organization of SZDP in Csepel, the union of railwaymen, woods, leathermen, builders and land workers, was regularly active in the home. This is where the strikers' struggles were controlled during the wage fights. The Communist movement in Csepel has also used the potential of legal organizations. Home was an important area of their activities. They participated in all legal organizations, heard their voices at meetings, seminars. In addition to the movement work, closely linked to it, the home also had the spiritual center of the work. Here was the Csepel General Worker Song, the Labor Player's Vigalmi Guard, the General Worker's Library, which played a significant role in educating the workers. Here was the base of the Tourist Association of Nature Friends, the Esperantist Movement, the Association of Child Friends, the anti-alcohol movement, which was largely a front for the illegal class struggle. That's why Csepelen became a symbol at Work Home. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think we can fully agree on that. This book was written by Tibor Drucker, who was the Communist leader of this Workers' Home for a long time. In many ways, the,, 64 is symbolic. I was born this year, and the last first secretary became one of the leaders of the Workers' Home this year. Now, I don't want to add any more words, but you can see the role this working home has played in recent times. When, after the change of regime in 1991, it was organized into a foundation, the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation, this cultural house - called the cultural house - was intended to continue its role. That's the role he's playing today. When I became mayor in 2010, I thought, although not only I, but many others, that the Labour Home had to undress its party centre character, it had to undress that it openly took on this past. That's what happened until 2010. Anyway, I'd just like to say that you've been a little smug about the government and everyone, very gently, because obviously your knowledge of Kaba can't be so deep. A few months ago, he went there as a candidate for Csepel, and today he's president of the Csepel MSZP. I don't even know what they're thinking. I've lived there for 54 years. This book was written in 64 when I was born, since then I have been monitoring what is happening to the Csepel Workers' Home. Now in 2010, I made a proposal to the leaders of the Workers' Home, the board, the foundation, without trying to do anything. I don't know, I think the last time I was here, I might have been supposed to build myself a hotel at the Labor Home, and there's been some raving news. They weren't willing to do anything. They refused to allow the municipality to obtain a majority in the board of directors for substantial amounts of money. These funds are still allocated to the local government's account today. They refused to enter the Supervisory Board by the person delegated by the municipality, who wanted to know what this money was being spent on. The last major development was in 2001 at the Workhouse. Mária Siklósi architect designed the transformation of the wonderful theatre hall of the Workers' Home. That, of course, was a subliminal success, but it was financed by the Orbán government. That's the last one. Since then, these people, who have been there, I don't know how long, 30 years, if you look at 91, have been curators for almost 30 years, unable to fulfill the foundational goal. You don't have to complain, you have to do the whole thing. I fully support the idea. I would like the Csepel Workers' Home to actually serve the foundational goal, that is to say, the Csepel and Csepel Island workers, their children's culture and public culture. It's written down, we can do that. You can count on my support in this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-25-207	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ovádi, Group of the Fidesz Group, called Veszprém again on the European stage. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-06-25-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Veszprém is already a proud holder of numerous Hungarian and international awards and recognitions, all of which are backed by great effort and performance. We could even say that Veszprém's competitive spirit is outstanding, although in many cases it is not with other cities that we have to fight, but it is with the achievement of new goals that we have set ourselves. Many of Veszprém's awards could tell many stories about the city of queens, yet I would like to talk about a competition that has challenges and goals and the results of Veszprém can be exemplary for many other Hungarian and European settlements. This week, we welcome to our city the esteemed members of the jury of Entente Florale Europe, who will visit Veszprém as the Hungarian winner of the But what exactly led us to Veszprém this week to be evaluated by such a prestigious professional jury? In 2010, Veszprém was the first city in Hungary to adopt its climate strategy. We earned the Climate Star Award of the European Climate Alliance as the first Hungarian city in that year, and in 2011 we won the national biodiversity award. [[17 .30]] Since then, we have received several awards from the family-friendly self-government and the old-age self-government, and we have won the recognition title of the bike-friendly settlement in several years. According to the results of a national research published at the beginning of this year, Veszprém is the most livable rural town in Hungary based on the aggregation of various social and economic indicators. All of this is all factors that distinguish Veszprém from other competing settlements in the competition between the Hungarians and the Entente Florale Europe. All these achievements and awards tell us that there are strong and active communities in Veszprém. Communities that are able to set long-term objectives and subject their activities to these common objectives. However, the most important thing is that people in Veszprém and the surrounding area love their city. To do this, we need places where we can spend joyful hours, spend time, recharge, relax, and share experiences shared with our friends, family, and loved ones. The quality of the city's public areas is therefore one of the most important features of our relationship with our place of residence. After all, these sites become an important creator of our lives and thus an eternal part of our memory. Just a few examples of the development of recent years, which aim to achieve this goal in Veszprém. The city's pedestrian street and small courtyards in the city centre have been renewed at two paces. We have made the traffic of downtown more conscious and speedier, we have completely renewed it, and uniquely we have established several kilometres of green-zone trails at the foot of the historic castle and on the shore of the Sed stream crossing Veszprém. We hope that with the help of the jury of the Entente Florale Europe, we will be able to present and introduce the values, pride and achievements of our beloved city, Veszprém, in Hungary and throughout Europe. Regardless of where our city ends up in the international field, we are proud of our achievements, and I am proud of the diligence and efforts of the people of Veszprém. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-25-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Dezső Szigényi, MSZP Group also applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening at the György Dózsa General School on the Road? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-06-25-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1910 the mayor István Bárczy built an excellent school at the intersection of Budapest, György Dózsa út-Lehel út in 1910. Since then, the local governments of adult generations have guarded this school with fear, which is why this school is still in excellent condition, capable of receiving up to 600 children. What I'm talking about is that this school is not an excellent educational achievement, it's that it's in the national media center. There have been press reports of child abuse at school and press reports that the principal filed a complaint and called police at school about a 13 - year - old student assaulting her in her office. The case has a history. In 2016, the school principal, who had worked successfully until then, was not renewed in office, tendered, and was the former Fidesz mayor of a birch village, who had not been re-elected - probably also for a reason - applied for this directorship. He had two years of experience, and no one supported him. He was not supported by the faculty and was not supported by the parents. Whoever else had the chance is the municipality. On behalf of the municipality, the mayor wrote a letter. He wasn't being subtle, the mayor was a straight man, he was speaking clearly right now. He wrote that he did not support the candidate's program, considered his person unfit to run the school. Despite all this, a decision has been made. Zsolt Putnoki has been appointed, ignoring all opinions. It was justified that opinions should not be taken into account, and the decision was taken in the spirit of renewal. Shocking events followed. The school is attended by excited parents and frightened children, and the KLIK - or rather, the school district center, say, the local KLIK - is trying to pretend that nothing has happened, no one has been looking for them, they are completely shutting down, and they appreciate the situation, they have no indication that they have nothing to do with this, they have to wait for the end of the investigation. And the parents of the children who came there? Who's gonna deal with them? Since the school is completely isolated, the parents talk to each other. Who will confirm the rumour that the director has repeatedly assaulted and abused other children about threatening teachers, students, and parents? The parents for having their baby taken away. The director received compensation from the board, and he had a relationship in higher places; that at the previous school, where he taught, he also slapped a child and was forbidden to remain alone with the children. Since then, two months have passed, everyone has waited and waited, nothing has happened. Last week. On 21 June, the date of entry into force of the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis between the European Community and the Swiss In today's world, it's a saving thing, by the way. They told me shocking experiences about the school's life, the events in April. We've learned what kind of leader the school head is and what kind of educator he is. It became obvious that the director was not only incompetent as a leader but also as an educator. That's what the 21 educators who stood until their partner told them that all 21 of them were leaving school. The comments revealed that more than 20 students had left the school in two days. Another shocking experience was the inability of the district to respond to these suggestions, but they simply do not understand what is happening around them. There is only one reason for their lack of advice: I can say from experience that no one is going to look for them in this matter because they do not trust them. They've lost their credibility. Because while this was happening, they conducted a comprehensive study at school: they examined the legality of employment. Congratulations. Bull's-eye. The situation is desperate, teachers flee school at such a pace that only the number of children on the run competes with it. I'm extremely disappointed that the long-standing institution could fall apart in front of me. You can't give advice from here, but I'd suggest you save the director until the time of the investigation and hire a competent person to see if the situation is still salvageable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-25-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Zsolt Gréczy, representative of the Democratic Coalition, has also applied for a post-scheduled speech: he bans theatre performances with the title of power. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-25-212	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Recently, it is a growing phenomenon in Hungarian public life, and it is spreading the waters of cultural public life that I had to report to this House a few weeks ago that a settlement of Robert Alföldi was banned in Zala County, and now it is about the banning of the performance Billy Elliot at the Erkel Theatre of the State Opera House. Of course, I do not want to argue that this is a good performance or not, because it is a matter of taste, everyone decides who likes it or who doesn't. I also do not begin to argue that the author of a certain Elton John, who has made me a knight in the United Kingdom, is such a world-famous artist, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not right. So the head of the Hungarian State Opera House, even if Viktor Orbán appointed the former host of the News TV, would not be in a position to be forced to stand up and tell the press in front of the public and the voters that they are sorry, that the tickets do not go so well for this performance, and yet I will take the performance off the show instead. This is completely unacceptable. [[17.40]] And it is unacceptable not only because it is a disgrace and a disgrace in a Member State of the European Union in 2018, but also because behind this phenomenon something that we thought was typical of the 1950s and 1960s in Hungary, but rather in the 1950s, when I wouldn't say the title of this one in the newspaper near the party, because I would be ashamed to say it, let's call it a Free People, it simply appears from the pen of an author whose name no one has ever heard, as if he were a laborer in the old Free People's time, and he suddenly writes that he doesn't like a performance for some reason. Then, first, the director of the Opera House believes, quite rightly, that he must stand up for his own programme policy and keep a piece of success at repertoire, and then he is under such pressure from fidesz government circles, such political and taste pressure that he is forced to let his spine break, and then he bans a performance. It's just not okay. We do not want to live in the age of Ernő Lakatos in Hungary in 2018, when they happened. In the late eighties, György Aczél didn't ban anything, but the Katona József Theatre worked even if he didn't like it, and there were lectures that obviously didn't stand up to the taste of the then party, but they weren't banned. So I would like to draw the attention of Fidesz and the attention of the pro-government representatives and the government that this is a very serious mistake and that it further undermines Hungary's international authority, Hungary's international judgment. And, I'm telling you, it's not about who likes it and who doesn't, because someone likes it, someone doesn't like it, but banning performances reminds this country of very bad times. I would very much like Hungary not to be in the position that there will be a change of government at any time - it would be good if this happened today - and then another power would start to think that Fidesz would ban productions that fit into the taste world of Fidesz and which do not please the new government. That's what I'd do to protect Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-25-213	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group also applied for an after-the-date speech: Why does the government not address the problems of tens of thousands of students commuting to their school? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-06-25-214	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has always been very sensitive to young people's problems, we bring them here regularly to this House, and I would like to do the same with my speech today. Just because I have received a request in the last few weeks to draw attention to the problems of a social group within young people, which are undeservingly silent and unfortunately not addressed by the government, although it would be necessary to do so in order to solve these problems. This social group, these students who go to their school, are forced to go from different smaller settlements to their primary school or their secondary school every day, because, let's say, they are not college students because they have not been admitted to the dorm, or they do not want to live in a dorm, because it is important for them to spend every evening with their parents, their families, or there are circumstances where they can study normally. So there are tens of thousands of people who do not want to go to college even when their school is further away from their own home. In itself, who is born, where lives, is a gift in most cases, and how far away is the high school that he wants to go to, is also a gift that one cannot control so much. There's got to be a way to get in there. These young people, indeed, need to see that they are having a very difficult time, whether they face a daily journey of several hours, which is tiring in itself, must rise earlier than a student who lives in a given city, to which he goes to school. Well, in case he lives there, he walks over to his school, or he goes to his school on an interstate flight. This may take a few ten minutes to the fullest, while those who come from remote settlements can, indeed, say again, take an hour or two a day. So they have to get up early, they'll be home later. And then we didn't even talk about someone having to board, so you have to wait, in winter it can be a pretty cruel thing, waiting in the cold. So there are a lot of problems these students have to face in order to get to their school. But also the letter writer who formulated the problems for me - and spoke not only in his own name but also in the name of many students - said that in most cases timetables cannot take into account the needs of these students. And after school, there would be a number of things for them to do, which they miss because they're on their way home from their last bus, so they have to reach it. They can't go to various sports trainings, various professions, don't give up, God, they can't spend a little time with their friends, because they have to hurry home. We can therefore see the problems faced by these young people, and it is very important that we also address them. If the government is already saying that no one is being left on the side of the road, then let us not leave this class of society, but let us start thinking together about what can be done to make it better for these young people. Because there is a need for common thinking here, I think that this is a very complex, complex issue, and it is not possible to put together a timetable that can take all these needs into account, and we know very well that such a timetable will never exist, which is suitable for everyone, but I am sure that a better timetable than the current one can be drawn up. This would require, for example, coordination with bus companies, railway companies at the beginning of a school year, to tell them where young people go to them, what needs they try to meet, and I am sure that if it were compulsory for each school concerned to have such a consultation with the relevant regional, regional or county bus and railway undertakings, a better timetable could already be established. For example, it is important to consider the need for NAT and to avoid zero hours. The zeroth class alone is a burden for everyone I am talking about today, and it is even more difficult for entry students. In such cases, when you have to get to school by 7:00, it is not impossible for a student of this type to get up at 4:30 or 5:00, which is difficult for an 11-year-old. So I would like to encourage the government to address the problems of this social class, to start thinking together and to try to make it easier for them, to find a easier way to go to school. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group has also applied for a post- Agenda address:. What can we expect? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-06-25-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What can we expect? The expression not only governs political actors, but also those involved in professional and scientific life when we talk about health care. For this reason, many people, with confidence and great questions, were waiting for the change that had taken place in the state-wide management of health care over the past period, as they had become a new minister or new secretary of state in this area. And precisely in order to push changes in the right direction, several organizations, including the Hungarian Medical Chamber, have expressed their views on what would be right, which would be the first steps to be taken. And I thought that I would bring these points to my fellow Members because they reflect not only the expectations of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but also the expectations of society and even the profession, and I think that these are fundamental things in which we can all agree and agree. The first most important point of change, in which the new government must be very careful, is the daily corruption of health care, the gratuity money. We talk about it a lot here among the walls of the House, but perhaps not enough, which is why it is important to know that although the phenomenon of gratuity money is rooted in the past, it has managed to survive the period of regime change, and it has now gone into such a functioning operation in the healthcare sector, which often replaces resources that are missing either on the worker's side or on the institution's side, and has been built into the system as compensation. But it must also be said that gratitude money is not needed, and otherwise the Medical Chamber, but all organisations, not only political parties, but all professional organisations have drawn attention to this. Thus, the first important step is to ban gratuity money, of course by creating preconditions for high wages and regular financing of hospitals, because they can only stop the phenomena behind gratuity money. [[17.50]] The second is very important, also money: this is the level of public spending. The Hungarian Medical Chamber as well as Jobbik, but I also think that the government's professional advisors believe that our public expenditure on health is extremely low not only in European terms, but also in terms of Hungarian health, which means that our spending on GDP is at least 2 percent below EU level. This is culminating in the fact that, in many cases, hospitals and institutions are unable to carry out the planned interventions, neither in time nor in means. Therefore, congestion and a discomfort for patients are formed. This is why this area, which is not needed or should not be sorry for money, because the pressure on an ageing or ageing society and technology is increasingly pointing towards the fact that, whatever we do, health will always be the area where we need to spend money, and we need to put increasing resources into it. Of course, there's a reasonable limit to everything, and it has to be taken into account. After all, many examples show that while the United States spends a great deal on health care, neither technology nor mortality and disease indicators are more advanced than European countries. So not all is money in this case, but also good use of money. But also on issues where Jobbik has a similar position, the Medical Chamber has expressed its position. We think it's a small part, but it's very important, and this is health and health education in schools. It cannot be emphasized enough that he is absent from the Hungarian curriculum, missing from the education of Hungarian children, which neither we nor the age group of our parents have learned how to behave correctly in health care, when to turn and where to turn for health care services. We therefore have a responsibility, and I think that the government will also be responsible for making this known, and for making the children, the students, know it and teach them how to get to know it. Basically, from the hundred days that they propose, or what they suggest as a peace period, to look after the government's activities, it's been 30, now it's almost 40 days, and it's hard for us to figure out what the State Secretary for Health wants. That is why I considered it important at least for the Parliamentary Diary and for the audience and the viewers to express these warnings, since they are mostly professional and well-established professional demands, which, by the way, are completely free of party politics. If we give ourselves something, or take it seriously, that we have something to improve in health care, then perhaps we should take it. We look forward to the fact that the Secretary of State - the former Secretary of State - had five points - will come up with points, how they can change the health system, to have more money in it, to have higher quality care, and to finally show up in the budget, because the next budget doesn't really show that a real solution can be found to these problems. Thank you very much for the attention of my fellow Members. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-25-218	Mr President, Dear House, The hour of speeches after the agenda is the period which very few Members are listening to, but the more freely it is possible to bring forward more serious topics. In this regard, regarding the issue of the Hungarian population loss as our greatest tragedy, I would like to remind my fellow government members that, although several of them have already started to give a kind of eulogy about the fact that trends seem to appear to be reversed, unfortunately, the figures of the HCSO population movement, based on preliminary data, showed a 1.9 percent decrease in the number of live births in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period of the previous year. So unfortunately, the number of live births could not be taken in any way towards the increase. We are fortunate that the mortality rate during the period considered was around 6 percent less than in the same period of the previous year, so the picture is not even more catastrophic. But while, in terms of mortality, it is not simple, but an annual influenza virus may have serious effects from one year to the next, we are more interested in the number of living births, because if we do not want to see two thirds of Hungary or even the whole of the current country in sixty to eighty years' time, then we really need to start thinking about what national minimum programming points we can achieve. It can be said that population loss is a 40-year-old process in Hungary, and the government is misleadingly covering it with a very fortunate improvement in the fertility index, the fertility ratio, in fact, that it is doing something. Our problem here is that the fertility rate has risen from a low point of 1.2 to 1.54, the base that means the number of women of childbearing age, our countrymen, is constantly shrinking. Within this, however, the rates are improving, as shown by the attached data, this cannot slow down population loss. Even the number of births alive hasn't increased. The Orbán government is struggling to ensure that, after eight years of two-thirds governance, this figure remains at any level compared to the same period of the previous year, which, let's face it, is little. For this reason, Jobbik will present a number of amendments during the budget period that could substantially slow down the rate of population loss and help families to bring the desired children into the world if they have such an intention, such a desire. For this reason, we would like at least to reduce the VAT on children's education from 27 to 5 percent. We have plenty of opportunities for this in the current draft budget, and there are plenty of reserves. But there is another cardinal area, which unfortunately we do not continue long debates with the government, because we do not get answers to the question. That is why I am pleased that Minister István Németh is here in the Chamber at the moment and, if he is determined enough, he can respond to the suggestion that the government is finally willing to develop a support system for controlled reproduction processes and assisted reproduction processes, the result of which, Minister, is quite simple. The point would be that where there is a health barrier to childbearing, however, there is the intention to support these Hungarian families without a hat and using all kinds of tools. So they do not have to put horrific amounts into this experimental system, they do not have to face waiting lists, but simply, who already has a health barrier, but who wants to carry out the biggest service for Hungary, they will receive the support they deserve for all kinds of weapons and all kinds of devices. I believe that this is not only a national interest, but also a duty of humanity, and I think that a normally functioning Parliament should conduct these professional debates, even at the hour of the speeches after the agenda, by launching a dialogue, so that we can discuss only fine-tuning the system and how this can be improved as a recurring issue in the course of budgetary debates. At the moment, it is up to the adoption of Jobbik's budget amendment proposal that we can pool enough resources in this system or not. In this spirit, I not only look forward to it, but I expect a meaningful reaction from the government, because there is nothing more important than at least ensuring reproduction in Hungary before turning our country into growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-25-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
