u2018-11-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. The 25th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Austria on oil supply contracts will follow until closure. Government referral T/3608. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary, together with 28 other countries, is a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD's autonomous energy organisation, the International Energy Agency. The Agency was set up in 1974 to address the challenges of the oil crisis and to coordinate the united action of the countries with the largest energy consumption. Since then, its roles have been expanded by active international action to improve energy security, eradicate energy poverty and combat climate change. In order to ensure security of supply for oil and petroleum products, the Agency not only carries out regular analytical work but also intervenes in crisis situations caused by geopolitical or natural disasters in order to address energy emergency situations. In order to ensure the necessary stability reserve, each Member State of the Agency shall be obliged to maintain oil stocks corresponding to at least 90 days' net imports in order to prepare for any crisis. Hungary became a full member country of the Agency in 1997 and has fulfilled its 90-day import stocking obligations since 1998. At present, there is only one Member State of the Agency that permanently fails to comply with the 90-day stockholding obligation: Australia. The Australian Government has launched a ten-year compliance programme in order to address this failure, in which the Australian authorities will ensure sufficient availability of oil stocks through the revision of the legislation and the establishment of storage units. As part of the search for a solution, the use of Hungary's free oil storage capacities as a means of fulfilling the Australian obligation was also envisaged. The agreement was signed on 30 October 2018 in the Australian capital. Dear Parliament, Because of the geographical distance, it is a legitimate question of exactly what the government of Australia intends to cooperate with Hungary. In order to comply with Australia's stockholding obligation, the Agency has contacted all the Member States with more storage capacity than is necessary to cover its own obligations, and this Hungarian-Australian contact was also made with this consideration. Since Hungary's import exposure has traditionally been high in the energy sector, especially in the field of hydrocarbons, the Hungarian government has been consciously seeking to maintain its strategic oil stocks in Hungary since the change in the system. In order to guarantee Hungary's security of supply, significant storage capacities have been established in recent decades. Based on these capacities, the MOL Group already cooperates with Bulgarian, British, German, Italian, Romanian and Slovenian companies in international wage storage. The intergovernmental agreement with the Government of Australia provides a legal basis for Australia to count petroleum products held by Hungarian oil companies into its mandatory stocks. The emergence of Australian partners in the Hungarian market further strengthens Hungary's position in the Central European oil market and serves a direct interest in the national economy. Dear Parliament, The fact that Hungarian companies contribute to the fulfilment of Australia's obligation does not pose a risk to Hungary's security oil stocks and fulfilment of its obligations. It is only possible to subscribe stocks to Australia at the expense of commercial stocks, Hungary's security stocks will continue to be managed by the Hungarian Hydrocarbon Stocking Association in accordance with domestic and international regulations. Hungary is at the door of a unique opportunity, with all the conditions for Hungarian-Australian cooperation to be completed in this area. I therefore ask the Parliament to support, in the light of what has been said, the bill on the publication of an agreement with the Government of Australia on oil supply contracts. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, we can listen to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I first read the title of this law, I was like the President, that you read Austria all of a sudden, because it is quite foreign to Australian-Hungarian oil cooperation, precisely because of the distance, and to make that understandable, the Secretary of State has already noted this in part. I might add that it all came from the fact that in 1973 the world was hit by a major oil price explosion, an oil crisis, and many people may not even remember it. At the time, there were countries where car sales had to be stopped or reduced, not to mention industrial use, so it was a very serious crisis, and then it created the International Energy Agency, because the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, created this agency to coordinate and regulate the entire vertices of the oil industry and oil extraction and use. Since the 1970s, this has been trying to stabilise the world market price for oil and oil, but the most important thing is to ensure global energy supply. [[9.10]] This is why a certain 90-day storage obligation has been imposed. I think it is a great recognition for the Hungarian oil industry and MOL that, beyond the countries listed here by the Secretary of State, Bulgaria and so on, Australia has also chosen Hungary. In addition to the fact that this is a wage storage, so it certainly has a national income, it certainly increases the security of domestic or regional care, because if you don't give it to God, in this region there would be any serious supply problems, then, on the basis of agreements, these stocks are only here, and these can be used, obviously with the permission of the Australian government. A very important step, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is this agreement for the expansion of Hungarian-Australian relations, so the Fidesz-KDNP Group certainly supports this and I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-29-4	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, please.
u2018-11-29-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe I won't tell you a big surprise if I say that like those who spoke before me, Jobbik can support this proposal. Obviously, this is about helping the Australian government to carry out its strategic stockpiling, its objectives, and not the fact that oil flows will actually take place here from the direction of Hungary to Australia, just because of the geographical distance, as all previous speakers have already said. Nevertheless, of course, it is very important that all 29 Member States fulfil their obligations to the International Energy Agency. Obviously, as has been said from the presentation, only Australia has not been able to comply with it so far. It is natural that in this case you will seek out all the allied countries, i.e. members of the International Energy Agency, where adequate storage capacities are available. Of course, it must be added, it must be taken care of, but I believe that this will not be a problem to put Hungary's security of supply at risk in any way, since only those surplus storage capacities that are available in addition to the storage capacity necessary for Hungary to have the right amount of oil stocks and strategic stocks in all circumstances, even during a crisis period, should be used. If this is achieved and, of course, we have additional capacity, as established in the previous years or decades, additional storage capacities are available in Hungary, especially if it is generated by national income, there is no obstacle to using these available storage capacities on the basis of the respective government's own political relationship system or its membership in international organisations. So there is one end to a hundred words: this international cooperation agreement or inter-country cooperation agreement will be supported by the Jobbik faction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-29-6	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Now I ask you, there is another person who wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2018-11-29-7	Thank you very much. I would just like to thank the honourable Members of Parliament and the factions for their support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-8	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the laws on energy and the bill amending certain laws on climate policy and taxation until closure. Government referral T/3624. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Secretary of State Kaderja, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The above mentioned T/3624. Bill No 7 aims to amend seven laws on energy and two laws on climate policy, as well as two laws on taxation in relation to energy law. The amendments are required by the legislative, regulatory experience of the past period, changes in the energy sector and measures implemented. Allow me to briefly summarise the most important elements of the bill. As regards mining, the proposed amendment of the law refines the regulation on mining activities. It strengthens the provisions on certain issues, such as non-compliance with payment obligations; it improves the situation of industry on other issues, including through clarification provisions and competitive measures in relation to thermal water-derived hydrocarbons. The proposal contains a number of amendments in the area of district heating, electricity supply and gas supply, sometimes carried out in parallel with the regulation of certain types of supply. In all three areas, it would be possible to standardise procedures, including complaint procedures or procedures for certain company-law events. In terms of electricity and gas supply, we will make proposals to strengthen consumer protection, including re-regulation of market surveillance and increase the limitation period for complaints and contractual claims from two to three years. In addition, we would allow space for the spread of digital solutions, for example by enabling the reading through a mobile application. In addition, in line with other measures to reduce bureaucracy, we are proposing a derogation for district heating. The amendment will introduce EU data requirements in the field of gas supply and will allow the efficiency and cost optimisation effect of the development of national utility services to be taken into account in price regulation as from 1 January 2019. [[9.20]] The redesign of the system of balancing payments for electricity brings even more significant innovation. In the future, we propose that countervailing payments be made not by reducing specific charges, but by making lump sum payments. The amendment of the company tax and dividend tax law and the Act on the making of district heating more competitive serves to establish tax-related rules for balancing payments to be introduced in the Electricity Act, and also relates to payments linked to the reduction of the winter gas bills. Two of our proposals concern domestic safety hydrocarbon stocks. The background to the amendment of the Gas Security Stockpiling Act is that the Hungarian Development Bank currently owns 51 percent of the gas storage facility, but from 2020 the Development Bank cannot hold a share in the storage of natural gas, so the amendment allows the bank share to be sold to the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association. The amendment of the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products ensures that the oil and gas section has the same weight in the decision-making of the General Assembly of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stock Association, and also clarifies the methodology for the calculation of the security stock. We have also put forward a number of forward-looking proposals to this House in the area of climate protection. By amending the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision, not only will the authority's powers of control be strengthened, but the law on the implementation framework for the installation operators, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol will reduce the bureaucratic burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary in the first place. In addition, it is important to renew the bill that, if it is adopted, the proceeds from the sale of the CO2 quota based on the implementation of the State Effort Sharing Decision will be fully spent solely on greening purposes, in particular on investments and tenders resulting in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, by virtue of the law. Finally, I would also like to mention the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act, which is primarily aimed at clarifying and clarifying the conceptual framework on the basis of practical experience. There is a list of energy experts, which will make it easier for economic operators who are obliged to use professional experts, since they can choose from among the professionals on the register that have been certified to comply with the legal requirements and do not need to examine their compliance with the criteria in the future. In addition, the announcement of the relationship with specialists is transferred to the obligations of the experts themselves. Dear Parliament, With the amendments presented, we can make significant progress in our energy and climate legislation. The adoption of the bill will improve consumer protection by modernising market surveillance in the natural gas and electricity sectors, promoting electronic communication between licensees and consumers in the same two sectors, the spread of digitalisation and the development of innovative technologies. If you like, this is the government's first digitalisation legislative package, which we intend to follow further in this area. The amendment of tax legislation relating to energy law contributes to the protection of low overhead costs. We are making significant progress in the area of climate protection, with the most clean, climate-friendly energy being the energy that is not used unnecessarily, in the last fillet of quota sales, in turn for both economic greening and energy efficiency-enhancing investments. Finally, energy efficiency efforts will also be supported through the development of the specialist referral system. The energy innovation capacity of the domestic manufacturing industry and its overall efforts to improve resource efficiency are supported. In view of all of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/3624 on the amendment of laws on energy and certain laws on climate policy and taxation Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-10	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First of all, Congressman Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In view of the experience of the law enforcement authorities over the past period, the changes and measures taken in the energy sector have become necessary in relation to certain legislation on energy and related matters, but it is of particular importance in certain cases of domestic energy regulation. The laws on energy before you, as well as the bill amending certain laws on climate policy and taxation, contain several substantial amendments to mining, district heating, natural gas and electricity. In the context of the amendment of the 1996 Mining Act, the granting of a research permit, the establishment of a mining site and the financial and economic conditions for the transfer of mining rights will be broadened and the legal consequences resulting from the non-payment obligations imposed on the applicant will be broadened, while the regulation provides for a payment discount in cases where the reason outside the mining business makes it impossible to meet the deadline. In parallel with the increase in the official tasks incurred in connection with the research activity and the increase in the quantity of mineral raw materials extracted, the number of persons paying supervisory fees will also be extended to mining companies carrying out research activities. The area limit for research of 15,000 square kilometres for a mining undertaking under the law is increased to 20,000 square kilometres, as the requirement hinders competition on the basis of a concession for several mining undertakings. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Act of 2005 on district heating, in parallel with the Electricity Act and the Gas Supply Act, provides for a uniform set of procedures for the acquisition of influence, accounting requirements, exemption from data reporting and complaints by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office for the supervision of the sector. According to the relevant sectoral regulations, the security stockpiling of petroleum and petroleum products and natural gas is carried out by the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association. By virtue of the legislation, every company supplying petroleum products or natural gas to final customers becomes a member of the MSZKO. In addition, the amendments ensure cost-effective settlement between distributors by restructuring the system of balancing payments. While the current system limits these accounts to their specific charge by reducing forint/kilowattore, the new proposal suggests that compensatory payments be carried out in a single amount of HUF. Dear House, There is another important innovation in the bill, which is based on the experience of public quota sales so far. Hungary has a significant state-owned surplus of certain types of CO2 emission allowances, i.e. ESD units, which it cannot carry over beyond 2020. The relevant Parliament and Council Regulations require Member States to use only the proceeds from the sale of ESD units to address climate change in the Union or in third countries. On the basis of all this, according to the bill, the use of revenues from the sale of CO2 allowances is tied and can be used for 100% greening purposes, thus supporting economic growth. [[9.30]] A further strong reason for the change is that potential quota-buying countries have clearly indicated that they are only interested in purchasing Hungarian ESD units if Hungary uses them to invest and apply for projects that have been certified to reduce emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed legislation also reflects the government's main objective in the field of energy is to implement the principles of security of supply and competitiveness as a long-term objective in the context of the current energy policy concept and the strategy of the field of expertise, taking into account environmental aspects. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the proposed bill, like the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-11-29-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli is the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2018-11-29-13	Thank you very much. Like the previous item on the agenda, I do not wish to go into long and detailed professional discussions on this proposal, because although there are indeed major changes in it, I think that there is a great deal of technical clarification on the basis of the experience of the administrative period and of the previous period. Perhaps what I would like to add to a few sentences is the issue of climate policy and CO2 trade and its revenues, as it has just been mentioned here in the speech by the Fidesz MEP, Mr Manninger, that Hungary has actually decided to use 100 percent of its revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota for greening at international pressure. It would be perfectly natural for us to do so, but it seems that it has not been natural for the government to do so, but now it has been said at the request of quota buyers... that they are interested in purchasing Hungarian units if Hungary devotes its revenues entirely to greening. I think this is very good and very good, because there is a great deal to be done, especially in the area of energy efficiency, and any additional resources available are welcome, and if we are to regulate this by law from now on, it is particularly desirable and welcome for us or for us. However, in the field of energy efficiency, it is also proposed that 3 percent of the building stock, for the floor area, should be renewed every year, i.e. modernised from an energy efficiency point of view. This 3 percent does not seem to be an overly ambitious commitment, because if we move at this rate, then we can say for a very long time that the building stock in Hungary is adequate for energy efficiency, and we save the amount of energy that we are actually throwing out of the window at the moment, because it does not serve building heating purposes or building energy, but is in fact a category of energy that is used unnecessarily because these buildings are not properly insulated, equipped with the necessary equipment for building energy efficiency. This should be much more strongly represented not only by public buildings but also by apartments, and we are thinking in particular of family houses, so-called Kádár cubes, because there are still a lot of residential buildings with extremely poor energy efficiency, and there has actually been no significant resources available in recent years to improve this substance, whether we can talk about European Union funds or domestic ones. It is not available, of course, because the government has transferred the EU funds provided for this in the previous cycle to renovate public buildings or improve energy efficiency, so the family houses have remained without funds, and this means that Hungary... A real reduction would be possible if families and Hungarian families could, in the year of families, be able to provide their residential properties, their family houses, their homes with modern windows, building equipment or thermal insulation, and really save on their overhead costs in the long term, and not only have a 10% or 20% statutory reduction at their disposal, but they could save up to 40-50 percent of their energy costs, of course even more, depending on the starting position. So we would like to have an impact on the government, although I know that opposition parties today, in today's Parliament, can have little impact on government policy, but I still hope and hope that, at least on professional issues, we will find some kind of consensus on the importance of achieving climate policy objectives and achieving them as effectively as possible, and perhaps in this regard, because this is part of improving the energy efficiency of buildings. Of course, this is only part of the question of energy efficiency, because it is extremely wasteful, among other things, our transport and other segments, but I would now remain in the context of this bill, which is also included in the bill, in order to modernise our buildings and insulate them, because it can boost the economy and, of course, create real savings for the Hungarian population. The other elements of the bill I would not really like to explain here in more detail because, as I said, it contains partly technical amendments and, in part, has already been mentioned earlier and, obviously, my fellow Members will talk about it on demand. Otherwise, those parts are eligible for us or for us, this is the one critical point, climate protection and energy efficiency, on which I felt it necessary to express these thoughts. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-29-14	Thank you very much. Mr András Aradszki, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The T/3624 ahead. Legislative bill No. 1 provides for amendments to 11 laws, which are predominantly energy-related, 7 pieces and 2 pieces of climate policy, and the other amendments related to it are necessary. Many may ask why the reason for this proposal, and what the Secretary of State said, is that, in the light of the experience gained in recent years with the amendment of energy regulations, it is necessary, in the light of the experience gained in recent years, to re-adapt energy laws, why the legislator, the preparation of legislation, is not able to present a bill on a more comprehensive and solid basis, which does not require every time life makes it so, to amend it. Well, that's precisely because energy is an extremely complex area affecting and influencing very many social relations, market, economic relations, and, in addition, an area in constant movement, not only at home but also at international level, in constant movement and change, not only from an economic point of view, but also from a regulatory side. This justifies the introduction from time to time of proposals to follow up these changes or to raise the rules that can be better applied in order to implement the changes, on the basis of experience, to a legislative level or to an appropriate level of legislation. From this point of view, I therefore consider it justified and justified that this bill has come before the House, because since 2011 since the adoption of the energy strategy by the Hungarian Parliament, a number of initiatives have taken place in European Union legislation, and even these regulations have changed, and even in 2015 under the Paris Climate Convention, we hope that the energy management, energy efficiency and climate protection relationship system has been in a positive direction, with which the European Union and Hungary can associate a very positive, forward-looking role, and in which we can also serve humankind's climate protection goals with a very active, proactive participation. [[9.40]] In addition, there are, of course, detailed rules that have been identified in practice and improved legislation and thus the possibility of achieving the objectives set out in the legislation. One such area is the LXVIII on mining. The provisions of law, which, quite rightly, amends the system of the legal consequences of accountability in order to clarify the financial consequences of the failure of a mining contractor in certain cases provided for by law and, of course, provides for an entrepreneur-friendly way of exempting such penalties, where justified, acceptable and acceptable. I consider it important that the part of the amendment which provides for the regulation of the so-called thermal water accompanying gases. This regulation also shows that this is a complex area, although it seems to be a simple amendment, because the exploitation and use of accompanying gases that can be produced by thermal water can have a major impact on the profitability of the district heating sector, for example, and can make a major contribution, especially in the lowland area, where the introduction of thermal water with such gas content is typical, so that the economy of Hungary, Hungarian energy production, can mean more intensive use of renewable sources, and therefore it is necessary for the use of thermal water accompanying gases to be clearly regulated by the law. The regulation on research activities is not anti-research, but is related to the exploitation of our public goods, the mine assets owned by the Hungarian State; I feel that it is not tightening up but clarifying that the mining product or mineral property extracted during the research process should be paid, as is the case for the other mining companies, who are not engaged in research but are already engaged in extraction activities. I think it is important and I should mention the part of the bill that has raised the limit on research areas to 20,000 square kilometres. From 2013-2014 a major process was launched in the field of mining in Hungary, especially in the fields of earth's heat, natural gas and oil production. In the framework of a constantly changing concession procedure adapted to market conditions, Hungarian extraction and research in the natural gas and oil sector has been renewed primarily, so that we can say that in the last four years Hungarian production has not decreased, but has increased. This competitive situation, this clear, transparent system, has been improved by the bill in favour of mining contractors who invest and trust in the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian mining capacities. I must also add that, in this respect, the situation is ripe for a more market-based, more transparent codification of the Mining Act, which better separates administrative procedures and strategic objectives, if there is time for it, with energy in addition to increased energy tasks. I consider it important to make a uniform amendment to the district heating and gas supply and electricity laws in relation to the setting of supervisory fees; it is important that the accounts of companies operating under international accounting rules can also be used when setting the supervisory fee. Energy is an international area, there are many foreign investors, there are many subsidiaries of many parent companies in Hungary, it is perfectly natural to apply an accounting system complying with these international standards, so it is a natural obligation for a state of service, a modern, entrepreneur-friendly state, to have a positive attitude to such problems and to regulate them. The amendment of the law on the stockpiling of natural gas to automatically become a member of the MSZKZKZKZ, which uses natural gas for its own purposes, is also an extension of the common burden, and, by the way, a natural gas user that does not affect safety objectives, I am thinking about buying natural gas for chemical purposes, will still not be part of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association. I find it interesting and important that there will be a uniform system of procedures for electricity, gas supply and district heating in areas of so-called influence and other company transformations, which affects energy licensed companies, of course, so that it will be clear and clear to everyone how corporate transactions can be carried out. What I see, House, is that, in the rest of the proposal, an important thing can be perceived, that the aim of the amendment is to improve, which is both entrepreneur-friendly, i.e. service-friendly and consumer-friendly. These elements are well balanced and, hopefully, they will have a positive impact on both operators and consumers in the short term. I consider it important, and the consumer-friendly element of this package is that, in order to protect the interests of consumers in consumer protection legislation, the limitation period for the complaint procedure has not been changed for three years, but has been the option so far, and in line with this, the deadline for the enforcement of claims arising from network use and commercial contracts with the consumer, i.e. the limitation period, has to be increased to three years; this is also a legislative, well-informed amendment motion. The most Cardinal part of the energy efficiency amendments is the replacement of a lack of legislation: it regulates the status, responsibility, registration and control of the energy specialist. I believe that this function, which is covered by the energy expert, will be an important player in Hungarian energy, give an appropriate professional background; it will also be important to provide information, and it will also be important for the relevant economic organisation to be able to set up a person with a specific responsibility for the authorities. With regard to energy efficiency trading and ESD trading, I have to say that the government has always wanted to use the proceeds for renewable and greening investments, but there was no legal obligation to do so. A kind of good posture and a good attitude has led to the fact that we did not go ill in this regard, and obviously the market has reacted to that. After Paris, the market also thinks very differently, and it is obvious that when ESD units are purchased, it is a priority, because there is competition, competition on the market, the right to purchase from those who support their emission reduction activities from the proceeds. This is entirely in the interest of the Hungarian society, so it can be greatly supported. [[9.50]] I believe, this House, on the basis of what has been said, that this bill serves energy efficiency, energy security, consumer protection, is also in the interest of energy suppliers, and that we can therefore support the adoption of the bill by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-16	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The draft law opens up administrative possibilities for the energy agency under government supervision, which, according to previous experience, have always served to gain government influence. This kind of influence does not necessarily mean state property, but in all cases it is the enforcement of government will. The legislative text indicates that the government intends to strengthen government influence in the electricity and district heating sectors, in a way that is expected to crowd out market players and put close-to-government actors in a position. These steps are usually supported by consumer protection considerations by the Orbán government, when it is taking the trouble to explain why it is doing so, but in the last eight years we have seen that consumer rights, for example, have not been strengthened in terms of transparency in invoicing and the timely rationalisation of readings, while the government has thoroughly rearranged the market. We fear that real motivation is now not intended to improve the situation of consumers, but rather to influence the market. The LMP has said on several occasions that, in the case of natural monopolies with significant environmental impact, such as energy suppliers, it is not against the acquisition of Community property. Community property, however, does not, in our opinion, mean state mammoth companies such as the National Public Works, which are inaccessible and uncontrollable, or Lőrinc Mészáros's, government-friendly oligarchs and other family entrepreneurs, but, in accordance with Western European practice, a diverse mix of municipal, cooperative and state property that gives local communities control of production and prices. However, we do not see any trace of this kind of community property in Hungary, and the Orbán government is apparently not planning to move in this direction. One chapter of the proposal is to strengthen competition in the electricity market. In fact, it strengthens not the competition, but the power agency's powers of intervention, the energy agency, which has not been bothered by the fact that companies linked to Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz are buying it, with the active participation of the Hungarian public authority system, at a price which is often pressed, an increasing proportion of the domestic energy sector. The detailed rules of the market surveillance procedure will be laid down by the Government in the same way as the rules for the priority and guaranteed take-over of electricity produced by renewable energy sources in a regulation when the bill is adopted. Once again, I would like to emphasise that we have not seen a single occasion in the last eight years when the government would have used these powers to strengthen competition and not to favour privileged ownership groups. We see the same effect and are also likely to have the same effect in the transformation of the gas market regulation, where the Hungarian government is currently doing the most to prevent transparent conditions, since it acquires natural gas from Russia in secret contracts and also makes part of the Hungarian gas storage capacity available to Russia through secret contracts. As in the district heating or electricity sector, in the gas market, all market events affecting ownership are subject to the approval of the Energy Office, ultimately by the government, which clearly refers to the intention of further extending the economic model of the Orbán government, which is one of the most harmful economic policies. The government decides who and under what conditions can trade gas purchased at unknown prices, the public is obliged to pay the bill, and the profit is paid to those appointed by the government, as we have seen in the case of the MET group, which has made it a multibillionaire in one year. The package of energy efficiency measures contained in the draft law is also mournful. In the 2010 election programme, Fidesz promised to modernise the energy efficiency of 10 percent of the building stock annually. If they had started in 2010, we would have been at the end of it, but all that is left of it is that only at public buildings 3 percent per year should be added to the minimum energy efficiency requirements. I ask you: have you calculated when the Hungarian buildings will be energy-efficiently modern at this rate? 'Cause we think it's gonna take about three decades. That's more than the time since the change of regime. You always expect the mandatory exchange of boilers and mandatory employment of energy specialists and energy auditors, i.e. the proliferation of meaningless bureaucracy, to eliminate forced waste of energy, but there is not a single word in the draft about non-refundable support for investment in energy efficiency for the general public and the system of smart meters and networks, which would almost automatically make the public interested in saving energy. We've had eight years of experience, I mean, you guys, that these administrative constraints don't work. For something that only increases the burden on the population and businesses without the hope of a solution, the LMP does not want to give its support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2018-11-29-18	Thank you very much. The leading speaker of the MSZP is Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Your turn, please.
u2018-11-29-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The bill contains a real salad law, and it contains amendments for a wide range of reasons. It should be pointed out that the proposal repeals a number of earlier, pointless and incomprehensible provisions which, in some cases, clearly serve the private interests of certain economic operators, in particular the Vet amendment, which was forced through an exceptional procedure in February 2018, in which the government sought to facilitate the connection of solar power plants to the grid by means of unprofessional interventions. It should be pointed out that, in the future, the supply of natural gas for security should not necessarily be stored in the storage facilities for natural gas; it may be, Mr State Secretary, that this means that it is necessary to ask why the government had to buy gas reservoirs in Hungary, even abroad, only then. It is also a confession to government dilettantism that, while in 2012, it was stipulated that security natural gas reservoirs should have exclusive state ownership, now why this provision should be abolished. It is not eligible to increase the supervisory fee payable to the MEKH. There is no support for consumer restrictions, less customer service. I ask the Secretary of State here: the universal service provider will be available in fewer offices, the obligation of the universal service provider to ensure the availability of complaints on working days in settlements with a population of more than five thousand people, as well as the availability of forms and regulations. I think it is totally unacceptable to put Hungarian citizens in this position. The proposal takes some steps towards fulfilling EU obligations, for example, by amending the Energy Efficiency Act, but it does not take any steps to comply with the third internal market regulatory package and continues to maintain the closed supply system in the universal service, does not guarantee the right of redress in relation to the definition of system charges. On the basis of the proposal, a reduction in household energy prices could be expected. The amendments constitute a complete admission that the Government has late and misaligned the Energy Efficiency Directive into Hungarian law, for which the European Commission has also launched infringement proceedings. Problems to be addressed: the professional framework of the National Energy Network has not been ensured and therefore there is no public energy advisory system; no operational database containing the energy characteristics of the buildings of public institutions has been implemented; there is doubt about the credibility of the declared results of the measures and it is therefore necessary to review the measures already notified in 2014-16. [[10.00]] The Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support the adoption of the bill, although there are positive elements in it and the efforts to clarify professional regulations between sectors, and the signs of the recognition of previous misguided government measures, in its present form. I'll tell you what three points are that don't make it, or four. The regulation of the proposal does not ensure compliance with EU legislation. It is incomprehensible why the Hungarian state spent 400-500 billion HUF of taxpayers' money buying gas reservoirs if the security supply can be stored abroad from now on. It is incomprehensible why the government wants to keep secrets from the European Commission about long-term gas contracts. The amendment also includes provisions which are detrimental to consumers. Therefore, as I indicated, we will not be able to support this amendment in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-20	Thank you very much. Mr László Hajdu, leader of the Democratic Coalition is next. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-21	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. The bill consists of 133 paragraphs and contains 75 pages. I think it would have been worth adding an impact assessment to a proposal of so many sectors, including so many services. A simple impact study could have meant a lot, although there are reasons added to the paragraphs, such two lines or four to five rows above. But I think that would have made the opposition's objections easier. The proposal itself, in my view, strengthens the primacy of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and essentially clarifies that. The so-called office, formerly known as trust, or in the case of Budapest, is about the restoration of its rights in one of its messages at our reading. The rights that these service companies can do nothing without the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office are essentially based on their independence. In front of me, the LMP speaker has already mentioned that, in fact, this is the presentation of the government's will in the form of an office. There are a number of chapters that, I think, when the office was created, were forgotten, or since then it has been realized that this office can even be used for this, because there are such additions. I would like to start with the fact that, by confirming a little of my fellow member of the government's contribution, and giving a little of it a different interpretation, the Act of the Year on Mining, which concerns 15 paragraphs in this large, 133 paragraph, is quite interesting. We don't even know that the Mining Act was published once this week, yesterday. True, then the miners' various rights, but perhaps we could have put this forward together. It's just a completely different place of law, which is probably why we're dealing with mining legislation twice this week. If I look at this, then I see, and if I take into account a good part of the other laws, I mean, what it concerns, 11 laws, and at the end of the closing provision is 12, in this case we will know that the concession fee will be changed, the mining fee will be changed or the supervisory fee will be changed, the fee for the replacement of the mining fee will be changed, and several other fees and fines will be changed. So this is a money-taking proposal if we move our fantasy a little bit. There are also two percent increase, 0.4 percent increase, many of these small increases. Only the impact study can tell you that it is zero whole, zero, I don't know how much, because there is such an increase, forinting how many billion forints. You can't just jump to conclusions or think it means getting some new money. That is the interesting thing, by the way, and I very much agree with my fellow opposition Members before me, which was mentioned in relation to district heating. Although it is also true, as my fellow Christian Democrat Mr Aradski mentioned, the exploitation and conversion of generated gases are now regulated by law. I would also like to mention what has been mentioned by others, and I think that this may be an important part of the law, that we have not only received it by e-mail now, and we have 24 hours to read this law more thoroughly. It is true that there is a large number of laws, but we have had time, and that means that we are not negotiating a fast-paced law here today, but it is also likely that administrative and professional consultation could have preceded this law. I must add that this is his virtue, I think. It is interesting that the president of this office, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, will also be entitled to a regulation in the future, which is also included in this law. This is a very interesting trust driver's license; the trust leader had such a driver's license. Looks like it's confirmed here, too, that this is coming back. The tightening of other economic conditions can also be read out of this law. One is that it means income, almost every chapter in which this salad law applies. The other is that it means economic tightenings, in many cases it may be justified, or, in the light of experience, it appears to be justified. And perhaps an increase in payment requirements for the applicant is a step forward. Last night we discussed the Balaton Act here and discussed the merger of the Budapest agglomeration law. And to reach back to the Mining Law for a moment, I have the danger that here we will regulate in 15 paragraphs the clarification of the Mining Act, the formation of mining sites, the opening of mining rights, and in the context of the Balaton Act, it is easy to do so, because there are several mines, gravel mines, quarryes, a whole series of mining opportunities, and after three fundamental and important, major laws are collected, it is not by chance that we are discussing the Mining Law here today. Of course, I'm reading this again from the extension of the supervisory fee or the provision of a payment discount. I agree with those speakers, and I am not going to say this, which is related to district heating, energy saving, reduction of overhead costs, and what is missing from this law is not even a hint of how it affects private individuals in the case of houses built with factory technology. It is quite certain that this law is, to a considerable extent, a law representing the interests of so-called large companies on the part of the agency. [[10.10]] Small and medium-sized enterprises are hardly involved in this, and even this kind of professional part of municipal enterprises is not too much. As far as Budapest is concerned, gas supplies are the agency's responsibility, and, of course, since water and sewerage belong to the office, this is also an exlex state, and as a member of the capital, I couldn't say exactly. The interesting thing is that for many years we have known that the accounting system of foreign companies is different from that of Hungarian accounting companies, in September or when they have the end of the year, with us on 31 December. They now need to be redesigned, and the accounting year ends on 31 December for the multi-company companies in Hungary, those who belong to the office. But the rest of us don't know: there's an Audi, Opel, Suzuki address, there's a lot to do with it. It is the same for those who are in the middle of the year, or only for those who belong to the Office, that the accounting year ends on 31 December and not in the same way as the previous practice. To sum up, I think that this draft law, which is before us, and in such a large scale, is trying, and I agree with the speakers before me to comply with the harmonisation of European Union law, is also reflected in specific paragraphs, but I think that the law concerning settlements in such important areas, which will be negotiated here, in this form, if we do not get at least a tiny explanation of what is and how to be interpreted, because from this legislation we can only conclude, we think loudly about it, but we cannot really be established, so that, if other conditions are met, it can be supported only on our part. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-22	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. We can listen to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the context of the energy strategy, I would like to share some thoughts. The majority of the Hungarian countryside, villages and small settlements consist of houses that were built long ago, 50 years ago, or some of them, with great effort as family houses, in such a way that it could only be done together, only with the full association of families. For these families, this was an opportunity to break out of the worse, much more difficult housing conditions in the past. These houses, therefore, and I would like to state this, are not Kádár's cubes, but houses and residential buildings of an age, which still serve the families that, I believe, are not of the top ten and their descendants, but of the two-handed people, who still live and find homes here. Any strategy that will require changes in the coming time that will give rise to changes in the current energy potential that are likely to change with investments can, I believe, give rise to some concern. When it came to the fact that heating is being upgraded and that boiler replacements take place during the heating upgrade, I was amazed at the prices that appeared at the boiler replacements myself. I think that in preparing the strategy, and that is why I asked for the floor to be taken very carefully on the aspect of the burden-bearing capacity that will affect families who are in a similar situation in the first place. These problems will also have to be solved there. In order to resolve these, the central resources that allow them must also be provided. Why don't we just tell them to move to a more modern place, get out of there. Because, Honourable House, there may be a big boom in the real estate market right now, but these buildings are not affected, and we cannot move from here. The one who was born here, lives here and is likely to live here in many places, the offspring will remain in their home, this must be a comfortable, future-serving, safe place. Therefore, when preparing the strategy, especially when these strategies are already broken down for purposes that will have to be implemented... And just one simple example: without windows, these buildings cannot be upgraded. If anyone goes through the villages, go through the villages of Heves county, Szolnok county, Szabolcs-Szatmár county, the people who live there are making enormous efforts to paint it so that his home is clearly friendly, homey, but there is no money and the majority of them have the opportunity to change the windows. So I think that, in the strategy, the government will have to pay extra attention to the possibility of potential resources being present here, and, if possible, to appear here in the first place. The great goals are very good: reduce emissions, and so on, they are known, they must be resolved, and they must go on, but I think that we must now primarily reach those people who hope that these changes will bring them a better living environment, a more modern living environment. Let us not forget, I would like to say once again that all the housing stock that is there in these settlements were built not by taking out ten million forints of loans, but by building up and helping relatives and friends for years. The buildings, believe me, were built on excellent foundations, because they were very careful about that. These could still be there in 50 years or maybe a hundred years. That is why it is very important and that is why I asked you to speak, and I would like to say it again, which is why I have come here now, so that the strategy is about giving these people a future and opportunity. And by the way, I support the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-24	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2018-11-29-25	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the thorough and improved comments in the debate on the bill. I would just like to respond to what has been said at a few points. Perhaps the most important point I would like to point out is that in the presentation we are talking about a really wide range of areas, the main concept of a comprehensive approach was to make the situation of Hungarian energy consumers more favourable by making as many changes as possible. It refers to this and is aimed at speeding up complaint procedures. This is what the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office aims to do, and I would like to stop here separately for a moment to strengthen the powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office on several points. It has been said in several comments that the strengthening of the legal status of the MEKH would, on the basis of some kind of conspiracy theory, serve as a government intervention in various corporate transactions. I would very much like to reject this and argue that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which is also very largely independent of the government, has its legal status and opportunities confirmed in several places by this legislative package in order to be able to act much more decisively and with greater powers to protect consumers' interests. [[10.20]] That's why the office has the right to order. Congressman Varga has indicated that he will now have the right to establish a regulation. Therefore, it has the right to establish a regulation already today, so that in many cases its decisions can be challenged only in the Constitutional Court. It has full autonomy, full responsibility, and many times, regardless of the government, of course, to make decisions that serve the long-term interests of consumers and the development of the industry. Indeed, this proposal seeks to extend its powers of regulation on several points, for example in the field of market surveillance. It has also been mentioned that this is a larger chapter where the bill provides for reregulation, indeed. The aim of strengthening market surveillance is precisely that in a highly sophisticated electricity and gas market environment where not only Hungary, but the entire interconnected European electricity and gas market, operators who want to take advantage of market rules, do not get an opportunity to do so, or if they do, they can be punished in the strictest procedure, under the strictest rules, in order to get out of the mood to do such things. In many countries in Europe today, we have seen examples of market players trying to distort the market, and there is a great need for independent, very competent supervision, such as the MEH, to take action in these matters. But I can also mention the possibility of digitalisation among consumer-friendly solutions. Hungarian consumers today are often annoyed by the fact that there is a need for paper administration where there is no longer any need for it in other sectors. This proposal opens the way for consumers to read or send clock stations to the service provider, for example, via mobile phone applications. I think they are all in the interests of consumers. And then I would like to turn to a point where, I think, for my part and for the government, I can say that I agree with a lot of speeches; namely, the question of energy efficiency and the question of how to steer as much resources as possible in the future in a direction that, in particular, in the area of modernisation of the building stock, and particularly in areas such as those mentioned by Mr Turi-Kovács, we can reduce the energy use of Hungarian people, we can keep their overhead costs under control in a sustainable way, and we can even improve their life opportunities. For my part, I can promise that in the ongoing energy strategy process this factor will be taken into account to a large extent. This issue will play a major role in the energy strategy action for the next period. Indeed, the step is that we now want to sell the proceeds from quota sales such as this certain ESD quota, which comes from the effort-sharing arrangements, and which, on the part of the government, if we find a good buyer, we want to sell... every penny we make, we want to spend, we want to steer it in the direction of extending these opportunities. And maybe one last comment. It has been said that security gas storage in Hungary would be in jeopardy. I would like to stress here that, of course, the natural gas security reserves were, and will be, in Hungary. Of course, we have built and have extremely significant storage capacity in Hungary so that we can use these capacities. This fear is completely unfounded. I would like to thank you once again for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-29-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Today it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain social, child protection and other related laws until closure. The government referral is T/3623. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, With the proposed legislation, we want to continue the transformation process in social, child welfare and child protection services that started in previous years, to make the supply system more transparent, and to develop more targeted services. Please allow me to explain the substance of the bill. First, I would like to talk about a group of people who tend to their families at home 24 hours a day, who are permanently ill and severely disabled. Those who are unable to work more than four hours a day while taking care and care can receive a care fee. In order to help your situation, the bill before you includes a 15 percent increase in care, followed by an additional 5-5 percent increase over the next three years. Dear House, With regard to caregivers and nurses of their relatives, this amendment makes a positive distinction between mothers and fathers who care for their seriously disabled, persistently ill children who cannot take care of themselves and who sometimes carry out this task for many years and decades. In order to improve their situation, home care fees for children will be introduced. From January, the sum will be HUF 100 thousand gross, but with a step-by-step increase from January 2022 it will match the minimum wage at that time. The measures contained in the bill show a significant shift and progress compared to the previous legislation in order to link the care fee and the child's home care fee with as many benefits as possible which give rise to rights similar to those of work. In addition to the provision of a nursing allowance as a service period for retirement benefits, the amendment provides the opportunity to consider insurance periods in respect of the benefits of persons with disabilities. In addition, in the event of the termination of entitlement to the care allowance, in accordance with the regulation of the unemployment allowance, benefits may be paid for a further three months. Dear House, The result of many years of work is that the employment rate of disabled people with disabilities increased from 18 percent in 2011 to 40 percent in 2018. In order for this to continue to rise and improve and for all those involved who want to work, you should also know that further measures are being taken. From January 2019, the rule of the use of the rehabilitation card has been significantly changed. From then on, the person concerned will not need to replace the card in order to benefit from the benefit of a worker with a reduced working ability, the benefit can be directly validated by the employer under the tax procedure. The bill also contains clarification measures for the care of persons with disabilities. Dear House, Our aim in the area of social services remains to provide more targeted and efficient services. In recent years, special attention has been paid to improving the care of homeless people. [[10.30]] We are convinced that we do not help the dignity of homeless people by letting them live on the streets, but by providing them with the right conditions and accessible care systems. The basic task of the social care system, in particular the homelessness system, is to protect life and to help the social reintegration of beneficiaries. Recent measures also served to keep no one from having to spend the night on public property. Among these steps is the possibility of creating extravagant spaces and introducing a code red. In recent years, we have spent more than HUF 9 billion a year to care for the homeless, and we continue to provide a sufficient number of accommodations and resources for the services. In October, the government decided to set up a HUF 300 million housing reserve. The aim of the Fund is to enable the supply system to prepare for the reception and long-term supply of permanently public persons, enabling infrastructure development and, where appropriate, space expansion. The new provisions of this bill on the provision of extra-urban space are also intended to increase space as needed. The housing service provided in the outer space can now be operated in connection with the temporary accommodation of homeless persons, but the bill provides for the possibility of creating housing services in the form of a living room in settlements where there is no obligation to maintain a transitional institution. This amendment may also include the establishment of housing facilities in smaller settlements. In addition to what has been said above, we will continue to work on adapting services to real needs in the area of family-help child welfare services. One of the most important changes in the last year has been the introduction of a social diagnosis for family and child welfare centres, which will greatly help to assess the existence of a need for benefits and identify the necessary services. Making a diagnosis is the process that provides the basis for the individual's social support, assistance, and in which we can get a picture of the individual's current situation and care. On this basis, when using the services identified as a need, it obliges the maintenance of the services concerned to provide the person with the diagnosis, even under other conditions. In the case of social catering, too, our aim is to provide all the people in need with the help they need, while at the same time providing the service to those who really need it. The food ration of the public kitchen service and the rapid increase in the associated public expenditure suggest that, unfortunately, this objective is not met in addition to the current legislation, and therefore the bill is tightening up on regulation. The number of recipients received will be defined, which will be recorded in the register of service providers, and it will be possible to expand capacity in the case of church and civilian maintainers only after the ministerial reception of the number of beneficiaries. Due to the ongoing replacement of large numbers of disabled people's institutions, we also pay particular attention to the experience of the operation of assisted housing services and seek to take measures to promote the breakdown of institutional culture, thereby promoting the social reintegration of people with disabilities. As a result, further clarification will be made on the regulation, both in order to improve the protection of minors and by emphasising the similarity of this form of service to the living of citizens in their own homes, no restrictive measures should be applied to housing supported after the amendment. We are committed to helping families in crisis and strengthening the rights of children to protection guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, so from 1 September 2018 we have made social assistance in kindergarten and school a mandatory task for family and child welfare centres. The bill clarifies the rules on keeping a register and regulates conflicts of interest with regard to family and child welfare services, so that it is not possible for the family to remain unoccupied for a longer period of time. Dear House, The proposal also includes a number of important and positive changes to child protection and adoption. Allow me to explain these further. It is a good fact that in recent years the number of adoptions has increased significantly, and children from their families are increasingly likely to become adoptive families. Children from their families are also affected by an increasing number of foster families instead of foster homes. We also need to extend the assistance of Hungarian families to families in which parents raise non-blood children as their own, or as foster parents to promote the healthy physical and mental development of a child from his biological family, as well as his return to his own family. We therefore propose amendments that support adoptive families, strengthen foster parents and care provided by them. The most important objective in this area is to promote the adoption of children who are no longer able to return to their own families. To this end, an adoption fee will be introduced from 2020, which will provide the same amount of aid as the Gyed for six months to all newly adopted families. For those who do not have the insurance period required for the adoption fee, we extend their entitlement to the adoptive child, which has been used only in the case of adoption of children under ten years of age. From 2020, the adoptive child can be paid for adoption of a child of any age. From 2020, too, single maternity allowance may be granted to all adopters who have been raising the child for less than one year, regardless of the age of the child. A positive change for foster parents from 2020 onwards is that the foster child can also be used. We are confident that these measures will lead to an even greater share of children from their families in foster care for their development. In the case of child abuse, it provides very modern assistance and treatment for children who have been assaulted, especially children who have been sexually assaulted, by enabling and gradually introducing a service according to the Scandinavian Barnahus model within the framework of the territorial child protection professional service. Its establishment will be possible under domestic legislation from 2019 onwards. Creating the possibility of a service for the investigation and therapy of sexually abused children can become a new and effective tool for protecting children in this unfortunately timely problem. In order to prevent child abuse, we will also further strengthen the scope and duration of occupational bans on persons who have committed offences against children. From 2020 we will increase the number of child protection guardians representing children from their families legally, which will allow them to work with a smaller number of cases, so that more expertise can be concentrated on the tasks of children with complex needs requiring more personal presence and administration. Finally, we promote the rehabilitation, self-starting and social reintegration of juveniles who have been sentenced to detention and who have completed their detention in a juvenile institution by several means, both for their own benefit and for the benefit of all of us. From 2020, the staff of the correctional institutions will be required to undergo training during the entire period of their placement, in particular in order to complete primary school and then obtain qualifications. Because of their good behaviour, we allow temporary dismissals from the correctional institution to be placed in the aftercare department of the correctional institution if the return to their families cannot be resolved. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In particular, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2018-11-29-28	Thank you very much. There will now be speeches by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. First, Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of Fidesz, gives his opinion. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the social and child protection law outlined by the Secretary of State, if you allow me some clarification data, let me give you the opinion of the Fidesz faction. It is very important to introduce a child care fee, as Mr. Secretary of State said, from 2019 it was 100 thousand forints, and by 2022 it was the government's aim to raise it to the minimum wage at that time. This means that 34 percent of those who receive the care fee, i.e. the estimated additional demand of 17 300 people, will be HUF 11.5 billion in 2019 and the state will spend HUF 11.5 billion more in Hungarian on the child care fee. The recipients of the care fee will be HUF 2.7 billion from 2019 as a care fee against the current HUF 17.8 billion. This will affect a total of 33 500 people. The amount of the care fee will increase from HUF 58 680 to HUF 67 482, which is 207 percent of the basic amount. In the case of a basic care fee, when reviewing the need for care, we distinguish between the health assessment of the general physician and the care needs of an expert. This duality guarantees that we can assess the health and social needs of those who are entitled to care fees. The law also includes clarification of the acquisition of rights, which gives the social authority the opportunity to cooperate with the tax authority to obtain more accurate data in the case of income protection. In addition, I believe that the law promotes interoperability and information acquisition between public authorities. In any event, I would like to mention the Constitutional Court's decision which has distinguished, so far, between the beneficiaries of the aid, between the disability of the physical organs and the other disease and the person with a limited disability. This is balanced by the law and under the current legislation 114,450 disability disability, of which 56,797 are supported. In relation to persons with disabilities, a clarification will be introduced which will involve the service in question, which will also project and try to help institutions to determine the conditions and contractual form under which participation in the development employment proposed by the organisation psychologist and created by the institution manager will take place. This virtually directly affects the employer's tax credit; and in the case of the rehabilitation card, as Mr. State Secretary said, it will be abolished, since the employer can apply this benefit directly to the tax authority, which in 2018 was used by 9096 employers for 37 654 persons with reduced working capacity, with a total value of 776 million 570 thousand forints. Mr. Secretary of State also spoke about the treatment of homelessness, which has been causing a major political storm lately. I agree, and the faction has agreed that homelessness is a human right that we cannot use to make sure that after that we do not give, Lord God, that we have a crisis or death. Therefore, the faction has already supported government measures aimed at improving the quality of life of homeless people. Also, in the settlement from which I come, Mátészalka, where I am a Member, is a settlement of 18,000 people, entitled to day care, and I was pleased to read that the law allows institutions providing day care to create a night-time spare space that has not been possible so far. So you open the window of opportunity. Mr. Secretary of State has spoken about the preparation of a social diagnosis. This is a professional document created by the integration of child well-being and family support, which sets out all the development directions and directions for care in the institution, or is now very important for families or children who signal from outside the institution, and ask for assistance at the Child Welfare Centre. Mr Secretary of State, you did not mention it, but let me say that it was subject to the social law to provide accommodation, meals or other helpful activities by other persons carrying out activities organised by church legal persons without remuneration, provided that it is provided without remuneration from the recipient, relative or third party, and without state, local government support. Technically, if there is no State aid or other person does not pay for that service, I think it was indeed appropriate to exclude from the scope of the social law measures which were practically unrelated to the use of other government or state resources. I also agree with what is the social food rules, the number of participants, I do not want to use the reduction, but I do want to make it more precise, which says that it is possible for the person of care described in the current operating permit to use it. This has a small possibility of movement: it has been stated in the social law that it could go up to 110 per cent per month, but there are periods that see 100% per year. So the system becomes more flexible by having an upper limit. But at the same time, in home assistance and catering, the law provides for the possibility of flexibility to deviate from the 110 per cent limit per month, so that 100 per cent is gross over the whole year, since the number of authorised services should not exceed 100 per cent throughout the year. Mr. Secretary of State spoke about assisted housing. Let me give you my personal example here: at the moment, 60 people are being divided from the establishment of the nursing home of Viktória Győrtelek, and I think that the type of social sensitization that means their inclusion, with this amendment of the law, that they are also members of society, although the law here primarily deals with the prohibition of coercion measures by people working with them. The logic of this is that they are useful members of that particular society, of the local society, and if they have a disease, they use the same service either in the ambulance, the police or in any other way. So it removes from the institution the opportunities, the burdens, which, on the other hand, in a normal way of living housing, I think that every citizen has both the right and the obligation. Quite rightly, Mr Secretary of State mentioned the interpretation of the task of child welfare services, that the signalling system established by the aforementioned integration covers the management of the central register of detection and standby services, which can provide immediate assistance and family support in local crisis situations by presenting that telephone number. This, too, I think, is a great, great help in terms of flexibility and speed. As regards child protection, Minister of State mentioned the kind of term Barnahus introduced by Hungary as a Scandinavian model. After my speech, let me give a little more detail on this problem and its solutions in a general comment. I am also delighted that foster parents, as children under 12 years of age, have made more flexible, cooperative and family-friendly legislative amendments in terms of their most preferred social care system, ged, children's and adoption fees. We can support the amendment by myself and by the faction, and I wish you good luck in the practical implementation of the Secretary of State and the Ministry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[10.50]]
u2018-11-29-30	Thank you very much. Mr János Stummer, lead speaker for Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is good and right to raise the care fee, but we cannot agree with its schedule, its amount and its statutory exceptions. We find it unacceptable that while the situation of families raising children unable to self-sufficiency is partially resolved, the other people and their families who receive care fees are unappreciated. If you, my fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP, are going to push this law through the Hungarian Parliament with a two-thirds majority, they will leave about 33 thousand people in the same hopeless situation who are doing this job as brothers, children or foster parents. So far we have had our well - brushed opinion on this particular bill before us. I'd like to add a few numbers to your moods, which have come to my mind about this bill. 29 thousand forints, 44 thousand forints, 52 thousand forints: that's what people who raise their sick relatives in their homes get from the Hungarian state in exchange for this 24-hour superhuman work. That's what they get every month for the work they do, Mr. Secretary, instead of the state. That's what they get every month, and that's how they're supposed to sustain themselves, and that's how they're supposed to support their families. I think I can say on behalf of many people that I am very pleased that they have finally come to the realization that this can't go on, that with this kind of money in 2018 Hungary simply cannot make a living. They finally got to the point where it couldn't go on, because with that kind of money you can't pay all the bills, you can't buy the drugs, you can't buy the diapers, and you can't buy bread on the table. With that kind of money, you can't spend it on luxury items like fruit, phone bill, or don't give it to me, sir, my creator, the house wiper. I'm glad, Mr. Secretary, that this case seems to have attracted your interest. I am pleased that the Prime Minister deigned me to the royal council a few weeks ago in the royal council he called the government, and so do you, and to talk about this decision and to make a decision on this matter. I am glad that they had the courage to come here to the Hungarian Parliament after a few weeks, and they are confident that this bill will now be brought before the House. So at least we can speak frankly about what you are promising these people; for as many as you promised a few weeks ago to parents of their injured minor child in their home, you are now turning that promise into a bill. They promised these people that they would soon receive 100 thousand forints as a subsidy, not 52 thousand forints. They promised that in the next four years the amount of state aid would be fixed to the minimum wage. They promised that families who care for more children who are unable to take care of themselves would receive support of one and a half times further. So this will be the new word for the children's home - care fee, or weed. But they also made promises to those who care for their 18 - year - old relatives at home; this, too, lies in front of the House. They promise these people, tens of thousands, that their current care will be increased by 15 percent, and then in the next three years, they will increase this support by 5, and again by 5 percent, and they promise that by 2022, these people will receive 30 percent more in return for their work. Every day, when the Hungarian Parliament is living on such a day, a number of legislative proposals are being debated in this House. But when there is such a bill on the table, it is particularly justified to look behind who is behind that bill, who are those whose lives these hundred or a few people will decide next week. How do the people we are talking about appear in the literature? It is a disabled person who suffers from a moderate or greater degree of mental disability, genetic or foetal impairment or maternity trauma, as well as a serious illness occurring before the age of 14 and who suffers from a developmental disorder affecting the personality as a whole, regardless of the IQ value. It's professional, it's good on paper, it's understandable. But what I'm asking of you now is to see the human destiny behind it. There's a man behind him, behind this professional line, behind him is reality. There is Adam, who is now 21 years old, and Adam has been filmed in his bed since birth by his mother, changing his diapers, and feeding him probes several times a day. Adam's father no longer lives with them, his mother takes care of him at home alone, and therefore cannot take up work. They will then, my fellow Members, dear Secretary of State, receive 8 thousand forints more per month in the next period than their current allocation. According to the law, he is also a disabled person, and I quote:, whose motor organ damage or dysfunction is such that his displacement requires a permanent and necessary use of an aid, or because of his condition he is unable to move, or because of his lack of limb, he is unable to perform himself. I also have the pleasure of knowing them, who are behind this professional text. A fantastic, united family who will do their best for their daughter in a car accident with a serious disability after her husband abandoned her. They're at home, and now they're 12,000 forints ahead. I'm up here on the bench, and I don't know if Mr. Secretary was comfortable in that chair. Relax, I'm asking you, so it might be easier to do a quick head count, it'll be easier to note the next numbers. How much is this gallant offer for the Hungarian State now? How much does this royal favor cost you for the next year that you're about to practice? $3 billion? Four billion? You know what, Secretary of State, make it six, but you obviously know the exact number much better than I do; 6 billion forints. Do you know how much money has been spent on the Prime Minister and his entire pereputty moving to the Buda Castle? How much do you spend on this? More than 30 billion forints. Do you know how much they spent on government communications last year alone? Maybe 70 billion forints won't be enough. Do you know, Mr. Secretary of State, how many hundred billion forints does the construction of the Puskás Ferenc Stadium cost? You don't know, I don't know, and neither does the Prime Minister, because no one knows how much they're planning to steal from this project. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Is this chair still comfortable, Mr. Secretary? Do you still feel that the government to which you are committed, to which you give your name, to which you give all your knowledge and experience, is pursuing a humane and proportionate social social policy? Do you really feel that the government of which you are a member truly and wholeheartedly appreciates humble and sacrificial work? [[11.00]] Do you really believe, Mr. Secretary, that the government of which you are a member is responsible? The government will be responsible and this will be a rhetorical question, although it is responsible for the government which, last night, in the VIP section of any stadium, entertained as Baron Chekonics, uncountedly spilled money to his friends, and today sends in one of his state ministers to explain to the unexplainable, to reason with a blazy image, to support him, and to give his face to this, that this is all these people deserve? You have a responsible government, Mr. Secretary of State, which now rather than settle the fate of these tens of thousands fairly? They're counting contributions, they're inching percentages, they're doing maths with 18 years of age, it's like, if you're 18 years old, it's anything from one moment to the next. would change in the lives of these families, as far as the condition of the recipient is concerned. They tie the dog to the stake, talk about a step-by-step introduction, while talking about a few thousand forints for each family. Would it hurt so much for you, Secretary of State, that a woman who gets to the nearby store once a day or three days can get away from her sick child to shop, not just buy enough oranges to get enough of it in the probe, but maybe get some of it on the table? Would it hurt so much for you if these families finally felt appreciated? Would it hurt so much for you if you were right for once, for the first time after 2010, for once? If it's a comfortable chair, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to say this, but you have a bad attitude. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-29-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent moments, we have witnessed a very shameful speech, when János Stummer spoke on behalf of Jobbik, calling down the government to a kind of royal council, the Prime Minister. [[János Stummer: Who threatens me?! Who's threatening you?!]] I didn't want to start with that, but you forced me to, Congressman, to start every second press conference with some kind of explanation, and one minute there's still an election bribe at one of your congressmen. [[Gergely Farkas: Which one?! Which one?! Speak!]] The next moment is an incontrovertible speech, something I would not dare quote here in this House, since it does not belong in any way, not even in the form of a quote. Third, Congressman Peter James, who talks to good friends in the Borsod pub... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2018-11-29-34	Congressman... [[János Stummer to Lőrinc Nacsa: Shame on you! Gergely Farkas and János Stummer intervene.]] Congressman, please proceed to the bill. Thank you.
u2018-11-29-35	I'll get to it, Mr. President. [[Gergely Farkas: Finally!]] Thank you very much. That's because the good guys are quitting there, and he can't talk to them there. We have an important bill ahead of us. The social sphere has always received special attention during civil and national governments. It is very important for us to pay close attention to those who have fallen, needy, children, elderly people, people with disabilities or those who have changed their skills. [[John Stummer applauds.]] Let's not create tension, let's not make politics out of a case or two, like the opposition does on a regular basis. [[János Stummer: Oh!]] Let's give him real, real help. For the last eight years, the processes and the numbers have confirmed this, and we still don't want to stop on this road. One of the important elements of the bill we are discussing is that it settles the situation of home caregivers and gives them some kind of vision. We can remember that in the summer, the opposition tried to create hysteria in this case, trying to drag families in difficult situations to the stage, and instead of real civilians, they used to make a lot of noise with fake civilians. On the other hand, the government and the Fidesz-KDNP faction association sought a solution, sat down with the stakeholders, sat down on several occasions with interest protection organisations, real civilians, representatives of the profession, and as a result a common and good solution was reached. We introduce a child's home care fee, which is due to the serious disability and long-term illness of parents who care for their children who are unable to self-care, regardless of the age of the child. From 1 January 2019 it will amount to HUF 100 thousand gross, which will be charged 10 per cent of the pension contribution. In the case of the provision of two self-sufficient children, the amount is already one and a half times higher, with a gradual rise in the amount of the minimum wage by 2022. We also increase the care fee, the rate of increase is 15 per cent from 1 January 2019, i.e. from the end of a month, and 5 per cent in the years 2020-2022. Let us remember that it was the Fidesz-KDNP government that raised the care fee earlier, and we can also remember that those who left these people on the side of the road were the ones making the most noise. It is important to say that in the 2000s there were three budget years when the amount of the care fee did not increase by one forint. This was the three years when László Varju worked as Secretary of State in the government, he is the one who shows up here every week in all kinds of t-shirts with subtitles, but hasn't gotten any further than the mood. [[László Varju stands up in his place of representatives and points out the inscription of the sweater he wears:]] You've never been more than moody. Important clarifications are also included in the bill to assist law enforcement. We are in favour of any amendments that make the situation of law enforcement simpler, clearer and more logical, so obviously these changes, administrative changes, are also welcome. For two government cycles, a number of measures have been taken in the social field. Ultimately, measures in the social field will always have an impact on those who need support in one area of life. As a basic principle, it is good to be able to help as many people as possible before using the social safety net. Thoughts do not change to try to give a job instead of aid, and to have a regular, predictable income for someone, and to have family support that will leave more money and no less in the family register. We will preserve and further increase the support for initiatives that have already been effective. From a national economic and social point of view, it is important to have more employees among those with disabilities. It must be clearly said that they can create valuable work and add value. It can provide people with a whole new quality of life and goals if they are given the opportunity to work. The employment rate of people with disabilities is currently 40%, while in 2010 it was only 18%. The government's aim is to further increase the employment rate of 40 per cent, which is why the support for the employment of workers with disabilities will continue to increase next year, as has been the case in recent years, and next year the government will spend 2.7 billion forints more on this, so there will be nearly 42 billion forints in the budget for this purpose. Obviously, and this is very important, in which I call for everyone's support here, it is also essential to involve additional market players. In this Act, measures relating to the benefits of persons with disabilities and occupational rehabilitation will also be amended. An important change and simplification is the repeal of the provision relating to the rehabilitation card, since from 1 January 2019 it is no longer necessary for the persons concerned to replace the card, the benefit can also be directly validated by the employer. In July 2018, more than 9,000 employers made use of the contribution allowance provided by the rehabilitation card for nearly 40,000 persons with disabilities, which was over 750 million forints in one of the summer months. There is also an important change in the law regarding homelessness. More and more people are using the homeless service, but with this, we have only 80 per cent utilisation nationwide, and it is clear that with the legislation that came into force in mid-October, we do not want to impose sanctions, but we want to motivate as many people as possible to help the homeless system and from there. It is the opposition that uses all legal and political means to keep people on the streets under undeserving circumstances. At present, housing services provided in an external space can be operated in connection with temporary accommodation for homeless persons. The local government is obliged to maintain the day-to-day warmers above 10 thousand inhabitants, but the municipalities below 30 thousand are not obliged to operate a homeless institution providing accommodation. In view of the legislative changes that have taken place since 15 October 2018, it may be possible for homeless people in settlements under 30,000 to be provided only by the day care, but the overnight accommodation is not provided locally, so several interested towns and small towns have also indicated to the government that it is also necessary to provide accommodation for the day-to-day warming clientele, thus preventing homeless people from moving to larger cities. In order to bring homeless people back to society, it is also necessary not to disadvantage smaller settlements where there is no obligation to operate a temporary hostel. [[11.10]] To this end, the bill now provides for the possibility of creating housing services in the form of a living room, including personal and professional capacity, in settlements where there is no obligation to maintain temporary accommodation. This amendment may also include accommodation in smaller settlements, providing shelters, avoiding living in public areas. It is also necessary to mention the charitable and social involvement of churches. In the last six years, church attendance in public education has roughly doubled, while the involvement of churches in child protection has increased fourfold and eightfold in the foster home. It is also interesting that five of the six ordinary members of the Hungarian Charity Council have church ties, church backgrounds, and all three associated members have religious backgrounds. We would like to thank and acknowledge this work here and now. According to the bill, it will not be subject to social law to accommodation, meals or other charitable activities provided by church persons organised by a church legal person or other persons carrying out activities without remuneration, provided that it is provided without remuneration from the recipient, his relatives or any third party, and without state, local government support. There is no question that families raising children in this House can only count on Fidesz-KDNP. It is well known that in 2010 there was a budget base of less than HUF 1000 billion that the socialists, the Gyurcsány government, spent on Hungarian families, while in 2018 and 19 it already exceeded HUF 2000 billion. It's more than double. We can remember that between 2002 and 2010, the family tax relief of one and two children was abolished, the duration of the child was reduced from three to two years, the home creation programmes were abolished, schools, kindergartens, nursery schools were closed, and even the family allowance was taxed. An important and vital change is the introduction of a child for foster parents, the promotion of the formal qualifications of foster parents, the extension of the right of adoptive parents and the introduction of the adoption fee. Here it is important to mention and thank the foster parents for their important work. The Secretary of State has recently launched a national campaign on this issue. I think that the aim of the campaign is to draw the attention of society to the importance of this work, so that we can recruit even more foster parents, to thank for this work, because we believe that this is not only a social issue, but also a common one. There are 23,000 children in child protection and 15,000 live in foster care. If we consider that this could be the population of a Hungarian city, it doesn't matter to the Hungarian nation how these children turn out, just as it doesn't matter how their children socialize. This is why measures taken in recent years are important, and the legislative change is that being a foster parent has been an employment relationship since 2014. This way, families can live much more financially secure. I think that, in addition to material recognition, this campaign and the work of the Ministry so far provide a kind of moral recognition. The Fidesz-KDNP Fraternity would like to thank the foster parents for their work. I think that there is a complex, complex bill before us, with a number of forward-looking, important and positive elements. It is therefore supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-29-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill before us contains amendments to the law on social management and social benefits, child protection and guardianship, compulsory health insurance, support for families and other laws. In principle, three major topics can be highlighted: the conversion of the care fee, the introduction of the adoption fee and changes to foster parents. In addition, several minor and some more cardinal amendments are included in the proposal. We see that once again a very large package of amendments affecting several laws has been presented to Members. In essence, there are some positive, well-directed decisions in the bill, but, of course, the majority of them are again such that we can say that we cannot support the opposition, or that if our amendments were accepted, we could even say that this initiative would be eligible. It's just, in recent years, we've seen that even though we're doing these things for improvement, they're constantly sweeping it off the table. What my better fellow Member has already talked about for quite a long time, and most importantly, this amendment is an amendment to the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act and an increase in the rate of home care. If we are talking about the home care fee, it is very important that we agree that this is one of our most important tasks, that this should be resolved. Today, in Hungary, when we talk about home care, about 50,000 families are affected. You have put this amendment here by distinguishing between sick and sick, between family and family. For years, they have been fighting their sick children, caregivers of their sick relatives, to recognize home care as an employment relationship, or to receive the appropriate amount of money that they do not just starve to death and do their job. Home care is also very important because it removes a burden from the state that, if we look at it from a budgetary point of view, we could talk about a very high amount. I think anyone who tries to solve this very, very difficult task at home deserves all the respect. It is disappointing that you have now introduced the amendment by making a distinction. When we look at the amendment of the law, we see that there is a distinction between caring for one's child and caring for his mother and father. They make a difference by caring for a child or a brother. Of course, we know that the sick child has been nursed since birth by the mother and father. But when we talk about the parent, we can say that we are aware that in most cases it is only necessary to care for him in a shorter period. Besides, I don't think there's any difference between the two. It should also be said that if a person can provide examples of this for a longer period of time, he sees in most cases that the nurse herself is also in a state of long care, the difficult mental pregnancy in which he is involved every day. I think it's the meanest thing to do when we talk about making a distinction between these families. We are talking about 17,000 families where parents care for their children and 33,000 families where they care for other relatives. If we add it up, it's nearly 50,000 families. I think that the budget would not be disrupted if we treated this uniformly. We will put forward an amendment to this House to resolve this problem. Another problem is that we should finally get there so that the government can acknowledge what these families are doing day after day. I have to add, we can also agree that in home care, it is the burden of women doing what they do in caring for parents, we can say that 99 percent of women do it, and in many cases this happens in addition to raising children and working. So I think that we should give these people much more attention and much more appreciation. The next amendment is the annual XXXI on the protection of children and child care management. Law. Changes to the child protection system are essential and important. However, it is not understandable why, for example, the secondment of a common child protection guardian for siblings who are not in the same place is required only in the new procedures, saying that there is no additional workload for guardians and territorial child protection services. Is it in the best interests of the children or the institutions? Not to mention the need to strive to place the brothers only in one place. It is unbelievable that the training required by foster parents in 2013 has not yet been completed. [[11.20]] In the meantime, the government is campaigning to adopt as many children as possible in Hungary, which is a very noble goal and should be supported, because the child is always the best family to grow up with. The new provisions on conflicts of interest should be highlighted when the family care provider would carry out child protection tasks in relation to the child of his boss or mayor, sub-Mayor, notary or sub-notary of the maintenance municipality, but should also close the case for the care of the child of any of the employees. By the way, if it were a rule of law, no one should be able to compromise the family care provider's work other than the employees' involvement, including the local government leaders. The following amendment is an amendment to the law of 1997 on compulsory health insurance. The new forms of support for adoptive parents are positive, to be supported, true, all they do is that they can essentially benefit from the benefits they receive for young children regardless of the age of the child. And they're gonna build the whole system: lower-value adoptive child, higher-value adoptive child, and they're gonna get the otherwise maternity allowance when they're adopted. This is a very important step, especially when babies are adopted. But they state that anyone who has been raising the adopted child in his own household for a year will not be entitled to care, since the child is already fit into the family. I don't understand why this is happening again, Mr. Secretary. Think about it, I think it's the fact that one year a child goes to an adoptive person for what it's for. I think that everything should be supported when we try these children from the state system, from the state care system, from the institutional system, especially when we talk about adoption, I think we should accept this, we will be submitting a legislative amendment. Amendment of the 1998 Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities: a standard fidesz solution, they pretend to solve a problem, but they are in fact procrastination, as they know, because the Constitutional Court ordered Parliament in its resolution by the end of this year to correct the fundamental law breach, which they are now doing, but the change will only take effect from 2020. This too, I think, if we have broken the Fundamental Law, then we should amend it sooner. Amendment to the 1998 Family Support Act: it is not entirely logical that the one-off benefit for the adoptive child is excluded, that the same is that the adoptive parent has been raising the child in their own household for a year now, but by extending the maternity allowance, even if the child has been raising the child for up to a year. All measures supporting adoption, which also affect Cst., and the abolition of the child's maximum age will only enter into force after 2020. We do not understand that if amendments are brought here in 2018 and we are really talking about how adoption should be facilitated, then why we only want to provide these forms of support from 2020. I think it would be safe to plan 2019 so that these families don't lose another year, we can say that it could be further supported to adopt as many children as possible. Amendment to the 2011 law on the benefits of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws: the abolition of employment support for people with disabilities received almost no response, even though this was done this summer when the cafeteria system was redesigned. We still need to talk about getting a hitchhiker at the People's Kitchens. I think that if we are talking about homelessness and helping people who are completely lost and I hope that Mr. Secretary of State will respond to this, then all means must be used so that these people can receive daily hot food, they can receive the form of supply that they have passed, that they are not allowed to stay in a public area, that they have a real solution, that we do not now experience, Mr. State Secretary, that we do not see them travelling in Budapest by means of public transport, that they are not actually on the streets now, because they are really afraid to be taken away, that they are wandering around all day, and now they are on the means of transport, they are on the HÉV, on trams and trains. Mr. Secretary, it's not okay. They should not be punished, but they should be sought to eradicate homelessness, but not by means of criminal means, but by solving how they could be... Well, they're pushing him out of public squares. Of course, we agree that this problem needs to be solved, but tell me how much better it is that they are now on the means of transport rather than on public spaces. Secretary of State, I would like to ask you how many people have been frozen to death or cooled down since this law was introduced and died as a result of illness, pneumonia or its consequences, because it would be good to know how serious the consequences of this amendment are. Mr State Secretary, I very much hope that you will say that the amendments that I think all opposition parties will submit, say, in relation to home care, can support or not, because we will be able to decide whether this amendment is eligible or not. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju, who is speaking from this platform. Congressman, Congressman Gréczy, it is not appropriate to take pictures in this House. [[Intercoms from the opposition side: Since when? Could it be on the other side? Dr. László György Lukács: Can't even take pictures? Oh, my God.]] Thank you very much. We'll talk about the other side. Just yesterday, at the House Committee meeting, we have dealt with this issue, and you are certainly not aware of it yet, but with respect, I would ask you to refrain from doing so. Thank you. Congressman Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Well, we got here. Over the years, many and many of you have struggled to make the legislation that you have tabled a part of improving the situation of home care workers, and this must be discussed in the coming weeks and voted in the end. It is certainly not good for this debate if you consider the participants to be false civilians, and, of course, it is not my place to protect them, and they will do so themselves if they feel it is necessary, but I believe that the speeches that have been made so far focus primarily on responsibility and responsibility. In any way, but I think that drawing attention to the fact that there is a social group here whose situation I could also say that we all want to improve, but if they do so only partially, then don't be surprised that they will otherwise receive the reproof, the criticism, which is about the result not only of a political debate, but also of those advocacy organisations, the people who feel bad, lack them, because those fellows who fought with them will leave them out of a slightly better situation or even worse. Therefore, in the next few minutes, I would like to summarize, in fact, three parts, and primarily on the basis of rational arguments, why and what it would be worth to you to consider and change, so that even the situation mentioned above, but what is more important is that in everyday life there is better for those who do what they do in 24 hours or even 12 hours; in three parts. One: a few brief remarks for what you have tabled. I think it is necessary to take a more general look at what you have submitted a change to and what it would take to change this situation substantially. The first part of it is, therefore, the observation that you all professional organisations claim to have submitted this law without agreement. I understand you read a lot and see what's going on in the press, but by the way, most of the professional proposals that have been raised by the organisations concerned, the stakeholders themselves, you ignore. [[11.30]] It is also possible that this is done consciously, but it must be answered. What is the reason why they do not want to acknowledge home care as an employment relationship? Then talk about it and have a way of doing it. Let's put it this way, and put it in parentheses, I say it's a strange cruelty that you're doing right now. Because they have submitted and one day we will discuss two draft laws, one of which I am talking about, and the other part, when they raise a bill to HUF 500 million, the upper limit of the simplified taxation of athletes. Now, this is so cruel to the people involved, I think, but we could use quite another word for this situation, which is simply unacceptable. Not just for the sake of the Committee on Budgets, I could say how many billion forints have been passed over in recent years, when this amount has been raised to 250 million forints, and then to the associations, these excellent clubs have released their public debt; and now, in order to make it easier for those people and companies to have a better position, I could say that it would cost less, so that from what could be financed by those who are in such an extremely difficult situation, you will give up this revenue spectacularly. Well, why don't you explain, please, what's causing this, or if you don't, I'll tell you, it's a strange cruelty that you're doing from this point of view. The responsibility of thinking about 50,000 people, families, people involved in this way is certainly a huge responsibility in the sense that the work these people do is largely done instead of the state. I would also like to address the details of this, because these people did not plan for such a life situation. They did not think so, but they took responsibility for doing so in view of the situation in their families. And in fact, what is the best solution for the large community, for society, is the best solution for those affected, for the well-groomed, in comparison to this, let us say that they are very modestly willing to acknowledge this activity. But, as I said earlier, with rational arguments, the state will get away with much less when they do. This is also part of the uncontested submission that you are ignoring this situation. That is why, according to the Ministry of Finance's first estimate, it would have been possible to devote the HUF 40-45 billion of what was said by their representative at the Committee on Budgets, not a third of it, I could say that this is all they had in mind, and now I am not using any other words, and they want to spend HUF 15 billion on it again. I have to say, you want to get away with the least of this story, the social pressure that's grown up in the last few months. Make no mistake, it's not the fake civilians, as you use it, as Congressman Nacsa used it, but it's a general pressure. This isn't just about the people involved. The conscience of society spoke and thus supported the fact that you, who are decision-makers, authors, should give much more recognition and support to those who do not have the opportunity to knock on Kossuth Square every day. Only those children who have been given the highest priority will receive a maximum of 100,000 forints, which the expert finds to be incapable of caring for themselves. But only those who are at home with their children. In addition, they don't even get 100,000 forints, because, as you said, there are different burdens, and they also sum up all the benefits that have been provided. So again, I'm just explaining why they want to get away with this story the cheapest. The government's narrow-minded decision in the care fee is far from what social demand and recognition otherwise think about it, and that is a solution. The announcement was not suitable for anything other than to resolve some social tension, and, as I said, it divides the affected from this point of view. The advocacy consultation should have been conducted and extended to the 33,000 stakeholders I consider abandoned by reference to 15 percent. What you said, Mr. Secretary, you know exactly as well as I do, it's not enough for a pack of diapers. Therefore, you are acting irresponsiblely. I think it would have been much better if, instead of a solution based on the political decision-making or political decision in the draft law, the current government had modified in the fiscal law what it thinks of the scale of this fee, a solution would have been applied where, for example, they would have taken the minimum wage recognition immediately, in a manner linked to minimum pensions, accordingly, in a regulated and otherwise gradual manner. This is what you should have done and done accordingly. Just to make it perfectly clear who we are talking about: it is for those who provide disabled relatives who are unable to live on their own, who receive the lowest amount, the 30 grand, by the way, who provide their relatives for decades 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. No one's in an easy position here. Some, by the way, are physically, and some are doing psychologically hard work in this, but they are all in and out of extreme poverty. And what you have put forward will remain so. It doesn't count as an insurance period for the care fee right now. Dismiss me, Mr. Secretary. You said it would be counted as duty hours, but since it doesn't count as insurance periods, a lot of things fall apart. This means that if, for example, a person is on nursing care for 20 years and gets sick, goes to the hospital, can't nurse, his social security disappears after 45 days. On the other hand, he will not be entitled to invalidity benefits and so on. So this approach, which you have taken in this proposal, is unacceptable from this point of view. It is unclear what the term "inability to self-sufficiency" means, because it can be interpreted widely, otherwise you are talking about this review, the details of which we do not know today. But here's the thing: five years ago, you made such a regulation, and the Constitutional Court determined how badly you did it. Therefore, do not be surprised if we are distrustful, who, by the way, do not believe in how responsible they are. [[11.40]] There is a part of the presentation that talks about the hospitalized patient, after two months of nursing care. Dear Secretary of State, I'll tell you, these people, parents, mothers are with their children in the hospital wherever they can. To cut this off... I understand other cases, let's say we can agree on that, but notice that everyday life is about being with them at the hospital. What else can you do? That's why I want you to take this out. It is better for you to do so, because, based on the political practice so far, if the opposition suggests it, then you will not do it. Then feel with good judgment that this condition is wrong, and change that, please. But to say a positive thing, because there is a part of the bill that can be obtained in addition to a pension, and there are other aspects, this must be seen in this respect as positive in terms of direction and content of the change. What is very important, and I must emphasise once again, is the distinction that I would like to draw attention to over and over again. However, the amount of the care fee, which you have listed, is not even close to the minimum living level of the single search model, which was well before HUF 88 thousand in 2016, although it is often the only income for a person who performs very serious, often extremely difficult care tasks. Eligibility for a special care fee may be established for one person who, on the basis of an otherwise complex qualification, is in the care and care of a relative with significant health impairment and who is not or can only be assisted by self-sufficiency. That's the framework we need to think about everything I've been talking about. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience so far. I would like to continue with my own comments later. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your attention, and please pay attention to the proposals made by the opposition on this subject.
u2018-11-29-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for me to give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-29-41	Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth looking at the situation of caregivers a little further than we have seen so far, perhaps and also to take an international look, as we cannot forget that at the moment, the large-scale exodus of hospital staff is due to the fact that we have missed the pay even from a regional perspective, and the service nurses working in the hospital are also earning much less than their regional counterparts. The average nursing wage in the Czech Republic was 330,000 forints, the same forints in Slovakia and Poland were 260 thousand forints, while in Hungary it was much lower, on average 170 thousand forints. We also need to talk about this, but now that we are focusing on home care providers, I would like to convince you, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, honourable secretary of state to think that those who are serving at this moment in 0-24, whether their sick children, siblings, parents, family members, or loved ones, are essentially taking on the tasks of the state institutional system, even at the moment, in accordance with the bill-modifying proposal before us, for hunger. If you think about what the gross HUF 100,000 means, this is the income below the minimum of living, and not only the home care provider, but also the well-groomed one is forced to live. Technically, this means that those who undertake not to rely on the social and health institutions are in fact suffering from poverty. We know the stories where not only the sick child, but the other children are still fed by the mother, but she is already getting dinner from a neighbor or a friend. I think that these people should not be called false civilians, my honourable fellow Member, it should not be said that these movements were raised by the opposition during the summer. These people have now made their last cry for help to the government, and I would like to reiterate with some arguments why we have fought with my fellow opposition Members in order to recognise home care as work. I think it's a very big step forward, by the way, that it's already included in the duty hours. But when you think about the fact that these people's pensions do not increase at all during the time they serve alongside their sick relatives, they are practically not only forced to live in poverty at the moment, but also when they reach the retirement age, and this practically contributes significantly to their old age poverty. This is happening, in effect, especially when a person gave birth to a sick child and lost several decades of their lives without getting their lives back on track. I would like to argue, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that these people, who, if they could afford to pay a home nurse and do so for hundreds of thousands of forints, deserve that if they relieve the state, the staff employed by the state, from caring for their relatives, they do deserve the wages that the nurses otherwise deserve and the nurses get for their work. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the case of these people there are no holidays, no nights, and you have also heard the speech of my fellow opposition Members, in many cases, they have been feeding their own children probes for decades. I believe that there is no need to put forward either financial or moral arguments, in particular, that those who take this responsibility in 0-24 would draw attention to the fact that it does not only relieve the State of the remuneration of hospital staff, but also exempt from the other costs to be paid in the public institution system in this sense by those who are highlighted and tended at home. So I am asking you not only to make progress in the case of the home care fee that you have already made and which I welcome, because I see that the governing parties have also recognised the need for this. Notice that 33,000 people here are not only living in poverty, but in completely unworthy circumstances, they cannot provide decent conditions for those sick relatives who do not know how much longer they need care. Quite simply, it is the prospectlessness of what is happening in these people's lives. So I ask you to help me rephrase this legislative proposal in such a way that you acknowledge home care as a work, acknowledge that this is a service in which, at the moment, there cannot be poverty in the service, nor the one who is being cared for, and that, for the future, when the retirement age is reached, it should be sought to ensure that these people enjoy the same respect as the rest of our countrymen. I would also ask you not to distinguish between home care and home care. I understand the intention, I understand, or do I understand that you think it's a greater tragedy to give birth to a sick child, or to have a sick child in the meantime with a serious illness, compared to someone's elderly relative being unable to take care of himself. So I understand that you see some kind of moral or moral difference in this, and I do not see it myself, and in a financial sense, your position is inexplicable. So I would ask you to allow, within the framework of this legislative proposal, the principle of equal dignity, the principle of equal treatment, and that these people live their lives in a dignified manner, both home care providers and home care providers. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-29-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible, ladies and gentlemen, to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju of DK. You've applied for two places, Congressman, two minutes and two minutes.
u2018-11-29-43	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. I will now use my two minutes to continue what the congresswoman has finished; the idea that, yes, the state is clearly in a better position, and it will come out better if it is not for public benefit, but for other reasons... yes, those who otherwise need care can remain in a situation that remains at home, in the family. [[11.50]] I say this only because there is a research carried out by Tárki in terms of the quality of life, care costs and housing of people with disabilities, where it has become apparent that the average monthly institutional cost per resident is HUF 257,774. Dear Secretary of State, Compared to that, you're not recommending half of the people who are doing this at home under much better conditions. Then what is the reason why you cannot see this rational argument? I would continue to argue that yes, change your opinion, change the proposal that has been tabled, adjust immediately to the minimum wage, and that this applies not only partially to the caregivers of your child at home, but also to each person where this care must necessarily be used or this home care service can be resolved. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa has also applied for a two-minute speech from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I accept and understand that political reactions do not need to disrupt the floor of the speaker's speeches, but at the same time I have to say this, because János Stummer, disgruntled and reprimandingly told the Secretary of State how he imagined putting his face on such a reprehensible bill, that, on the one hand, Mr. President, the Secretary of State, served the social area with a great deal of work, great capacity and humility, you can acknowledge that. [[Attila Mesterházy applauds.]] If you're following your work from the press, I'm obviously gonna have to reject what you said. But if you put your face to something, your side-near is the congressman who made anti-Semitic statements in such an unpredictable tone. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including János Stummer: Is that why you asked for the floor?]] which I think no Hungarian MP has any right or possibility to do [[Interviews from Jobbik, including János Stummer: Shame on you!]] So you should be ashamed of yourself for that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Bravo!]]
u2018-11-29-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Congressman Lajos Korózs signed up from the MSZP in advance. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-47	I would like to begin by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that I, too, am recommending to the Secretary of State what has been said here and the critical remarks made by the opposition Members; here are your excellent colleagues sitting in the box of experts, and I am sure that you will help them to formulate them. As chairman of the committee, I offer you that if you make these amendments in time, they will be submitted on behalf of Mr Sándor Kovács, and we will support this. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] That's one thing. Secondly, I would also like to say that if we could produce this on the day of the final vote only in time, then I am willing to bring it to the committee as a Commission amendment and to vote, because I think that the critical remarks have really been made here in the speech of the lead speaker with a better purpose. I, too, would like to focus primarily on what has already been raised here in the debate on the care fee, and I recognise that there are a number of elements of this motion that can be supported, but I do not agree with the way and extent of the conversion of the care fee. Because I would also like to stress that, please, I do not see the difference between a 50-year-old child caring for his 70-year-old mother and a 70-year-old mother caring for her 50-year-old child, because the child can not only be a minor in this case, I do not think it is necessary to explain that. The other is a deficiency of the supply system, which I would like to draw attention to, as I know there are about 55,000 accommodation spaces. Here, I would like to focus primarily on how many older people need to be cared for, cared for, now and in the future. I don't think it's closely related to this subject, but I do need to mention a statistical data to you. Dear fellow Members, During the Ratko era, over 900 thousand children were born, and, thank God, there are more than 700,000 of them. On the other hand, there is the number of accommodations in residential nursing homes, 55,000 persons; God grant that those who were Ratko children live their lives in health for a long time, but I say only one segment: in 5-10 years, these people will be present in the care system, or because they want to use health services, because they want to receive services in the elderly, nursing care or basic care, or they or their family members. It is not difficult to conclude that the Hungarian institutional system is not nearly as advanced that the XXI. The government has a dog's duty to support the institutional forms that help care. In the case of the care fee, I would like to mention the need to create or develop these institutions or services primarily on the basis of the needs of the person in need of care, in order, of course, to avoid being isolated from society as a whole and to implement a service ring around them, which includes 24-hour support service, daytime care, as nurses or people working alongside those in need of care should be relieved of the burden of being there 24 hours a day, night after night. That is why I think it is extremely important that, in addition to support services, there is also a need for progress in daytime care. In addition, of course, it should be ensured that these people live in contemporary communities, and, of course, they should also receive appropriate rehabilitation. One thing is certain: the distinction between people in the same life situation and what is in the proposal, we clearly cannot support it. The reason I've gone to Ratko's children is because many people forget that there are waiting lists in social services, not just access to health services. As far as I know, for example, there are 39 thousand people lined up in residential nursing homes, this is the waiting list, but a lot of people are resigning from it because they simply can't wait to get there, not to mention that a lot of people are dying in the meantime, by the time they get there. And it should be remembered that there are more than 27 thousand people on chronic beds, as this also poses very serious challenges to the health care system and also to the social care system. A few years ago, there was a government intention, Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs, who, in his time, was very coolly here in front of the Parliament's public opinion, that they did not want to appeal to this 27 thousand people who are lying in chronic departments, and that was the brilliant idea of the Secretary of State to manage the debts of hospitals, even then, that they would solve the financing of hospitals by leaving the state support for chronic classes in the health care system and transferring the clients to the social care system. True, it did not answer that we understand this; it is highly unlikely that this institutional form is in place in the health care system, but where will it come from if it is removed from the health care system. [[12.00]] Because it would be a simple solution to finance hospitals, that money would stay, patients would go, and only the other leg would have to be created with professional training, professional rehab and the provision of institutional space. Mr Summa summarum, once again I offer you our cooperation, Mr Secretary of State, you are welcome to bring the amendments, and we can accept them with a Commission amendment. Thank you very much for your patience. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would also suggest to the pro-government representatives and the government secretary of state that they do not seek enemies in opposition representatives. There's quite simply a plan to improve. Everyone feels, senses that there is a tension in society here, and this tension is manifested in the desire for social and health security. If they don't get this, all the speeches and slogans about how many billions have grown, how many billions and how many percent, this fabric of society will simply disintegrate, and millions will drop out of it at the bottom. This is a warning, an exclamation mark on home care, and I am typically hearing here in this House that civil society organisations that have come to Kossuth Square in summer and early spring or late spring protesting that they are for political purposes, and opposition parties are not on these initiatives! It is quite simply that these people need help. These people sense that there are billions flying over their heads that are multiples of the amount you want to spend on this whole problem. When they see that the Prime Minister travels on a luxury plane just because his favorite football team is playing, when they see that there is so much money involved that a fidesz oligarch doesn't bend over when they see that nine football academys are supported by the Hungarian government with a much bigger amount than this whole story would cost, and then they shouldn't have to separate them from who the parent is now, who the child is, and to distinguish between home caregivers and home care professionals in this case, quite simply people experience insensitiveness, and the difference that is simply shown between the above ten thousand luxury spendings of the top ten, the top ten, the top ten, and the rest of the people living below. I would therefore like to propose once again that they try to be a little more open and take in the initiatives of opposition parties. We are actually talking about a few billion forints, I say, amounts that are not even close to... [[Lajos Korózs: Half the stadium price!]] Yes, now says my colleague Lajos Korózs here, we are talking about the price of half a stadium. In these stadiums, one or two thousand people sit in good times, and here people's fate can be improved positively. I suggest you don't do a national consultation on this. We could get to the bottom of this very quickly, and I'm sure 90, maybe 100 percent of the Fidesz voters would agree that this problem could be solved very easily, very quickly, from a few billion forints, and then everyone would feel a little better in this already torn country. And if it's already out there, because at this point, there's always such a thread in the debate that's good and good, but what happened between 2002 and 2010. Once again, my fellow Member Nacsa began to provide all kinds of data. Let us get this straightened out when we talk about social matters, because the country's history did not start in 2010 and I would like to say that in 2002 a first Orbán government had failed. Social spending increased very significantly in 2010 compared to that. I'd like to entertain those present with some data. Between 2002 and 2008, the number of people receiving housing support in cash or in kind increased from 175,000 to 326 thousand between 2002 and 2010. Mr. Nacha will review the statistics. Then I can tell you more. From 2009 onwards, not only in terms of percentages but also in absolute amounts, the lowest incomes will receive more. From the second half of 2009, the family allowance became a non-taxable contribution. In those eight years, support for families raising children has more than doubled. The year of the fall of the first Orbán government in 2002 rose from HUF 250 billion in 2002 to HUF 530 billion with the country hit by the global economic crisis. Orbán government 250 billion in 2002; Medgyessy, Gyurcsány-, Bajnai government by 2010 530 billion HUF. But there's more, and I'd like to share more of that data with you, but it's really short. Let's talk about the family allowance that would best serve the support of families. The family allowance for the two children was HUF 4700 in 2002, HUF 13 300 in 2009, the nominal increase was 283%, and the increase in the real value of the family allowance was 196.4 percent, minus the consumer price index and so on. This was supposed to be your government of national destruction, but we believe it was a progressive, European, democratic and socially sensitive government, and we thank them. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-29-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker spoke again, from the Fidesz Group, Mr Sándor Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In just one sentence, let me respond to my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, saying that all of this was from the IMF loan that brought the country to its knees and made the situation worse by about a thousand billion that had already burdened this society. I'd like to talk about a very positive thing about child protection services. I said in my lead speakership that I would come to it, because it is a matter of neglect and abuse, of which the service of examining and treating children who have been sexually abused, which, at the request of an official body, operates a service facilitating the hearing of the children concerned, in which the child protection service cooperates with the requesting body. For the first time, Barnahus' report was created as a children's house in Iceland in 1988. The purpose of the children's house is to protect children's victims suffering from sexual abuse and to protect them from the retraumatic effects of multiple interrogation in evidence and prosecution. His most important task is to facilitate the child's testimony and thereby obtain valid evidence for court proceedings, so that the child does not have to appear in court if the case is brought to justice. By its role, the children's house offers a one-stop shop, which, under child-friendly conditions, involves cooperation between competent authorities and bodies such as the police, social services, child protection, physical and mental health providers and the prosecutor. The service ensures that the child abuse process is dominated not primarily by evidence, criminal law, but by taking into account the best interests of children. It is important to stress that Barnahus is not a rigid model, but rather an evolving, evolving practice that can adapt to the complex needs of children who have become victims or witnesses of violence. First in Hungary and Central and Eastern Europe since 2016 there has been a children's house in the Vas County Children's Protection Centre, Primary School and Regional Children's Services. The investigation of the two-year pilot program: 57 children were investigated, 5 of which were convicted in 11 children, 20 were reported in 20 children, of which 19 children were investigated. In the first half of 2018 a new child-house model service was launched within the framework of the Central Centre for Children's Protection. Since the aim and professional content of this child's home model are integral to the task profile of the territorial child protection services, it is appropriate to mention in the Child Protection Act, among the tasks which can be assumed by the maintenance decision, the necessary investigation, therapy and hearing services for neglected and abused children. In the case of additional services with this content, it is not a condition that only this particular Barnahus model should be established, but its developed methodology and its spread in Europe justify facilitating its application. [[12.10]] In addition, I must mention that the introduction of the new service will comply with the 2015 XCII. to the European Council's Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Harassment, announced by law, on assistance to victims. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-29-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have two-minute speeches, but I will ask Mr Varju, because he has also applied for a repeated speech that he wants to speak in two minutes, because then I cannot speak to Mr Zsolt Gréczy now. [[Laszlo Varju: Yes.]] According to the house rules, in a two-minute session, only one representative from a faction can speak. [[László Varju: All right.]] After that, you'll be next. Then which one of you will speak? [[László Varju: I say, thank you very much.]] Okay, then Congressman Varju is next, please, two minutes.
u2018-11-29-53	Thank you very much, that's our division of labour. Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, The president of the People's Welfare Committee, our fellow Member, Lajos Korózs, had an important recommendation on how to improve this law. If you want to take advantage of this opportunity, and I trust that if the members of the government and the representative of the government, first and foremost, want to do so, then I would like to put to their attention one more thing that I think is worth doing with the amendments. This is that, in the event of the cessation of nursing activity itself, which is often due to death, in the case of grooming, but in the case of nursing, the job market is seriously difficult to get back into. I therefore suggest that they take into account that they have all the possibilities for all job seekers, and that we create legal conditions where they have a full range of services for job seekers and can accordingly participate in these services. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa asked for a two-minute speech from KDNP.
u2018-11-29-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, has selected some data in a very selective way, from which they were not all correct. Neither he nor Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said much about the amount of the special care fee during socialist governance. Guess what: zero forints, there was no such care. We had to introduce this to include an upper category in the system. You did not deal with these families and gave them only the lower basic amount, which was 28 500 forints in 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP took over the government. I think you cannot be proud of this result. And it's particularly amusing when Zsolt Gréczy called the period 2002-2010 a prosperous democracy, when you wanted to pay visits to people, raise taxes, swordshadow peaceful protesters and put hundreds of thousands of people on the side of the road unemployed. Calling this a prosperous democracy is very amusing. [[László Varju's intervention.]] So the next time you're going to rely on the facts, you're going to tell us the number of restrictions you've made to the Hungarian families, how much benefits you've taken from the Hungarian families that have raised the child, and how you've put the country on the brink of bankruptcy by 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-29-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now we're going to have regular speeches. I am speaking to Mr Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-29-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about three issues. First of all, let me repeat, for the sake of emphasis, that all measures to improve the situation of those on the home care fee, the home care provider, are good. So what I can say is that the steps of the government that, in any way, help people who care for their families at home are in any way a good direction and should be supported. We hope that you will also support proposals that may want to make this initiative or this direction even more perfect. But I have also listened to Congressman Nacsa's comments, very professional, beautiful sentences. I would encourage the Fidesz to step up in this area as well. So, as László Varju has already said, if they move so bravely in stadium construction, they spend a lot of money on it, they take courage in soccer players' salaries, they do not indulge in very deep professional explanations, so I think it is possible to move braver and bigger in this area. And you know what, take the credit that you're making a bigger move than the socialist government. Let the Hungarians and the families who are in this situation be more proud of you. Tell them that they will vote for you, because you have helped much more than the former Socialist Government, and believe that in this area we will not be envious of these measures, and we will not regret at all that we may lose those tens of thousands of voters, because you will give us much more serious and more help. This is also very important, and perhaps it is worth stressing that I do not think it is good to distinguish between the caregivers of the child's foster family or other family members at home, because they usually say that those in such a situation should care for one of their family members at home are actually equal to poverty, because there are a number of problems arising from this life situation that are causing new conflicts and problems for the family. Therefore, I consider this to be a priority issue. And I would add that, here, civilians should not be accused of being false civilians, nor of party politics, since whatever interviews were given by the representatives of the civil society or their leaders, they have always emphasized what the governor or pro-government representative did, what the opposition representative did, and they have been consciously kept away from party politics. By the way, there was a good example of this, together with President László Varju in the Committee on Budgets, and with the Fidesz majority in common, we have decided on how to deal with various submissions on this subject, so I think it was a positive sign in any case that there could be a subject beyond party policy, in which everyone agrees, and is willing to put its own so-called party policy interests in the background. Now, that's the first thing. The other is a question of homelessness. I do not understand exactly why the government is so shy in this regard, because they are trying to deal with an important, serious social problem in a way, and therefore I do not understand why the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General are not using what is already in their hands. I admit honestly, because I was interested in the topic, I read the summer about the "Homeless Things to Do" 2015; from street to apartment; Proposals to make the provision of homeless people possible, this is a August 2015 strategy. The expert document was implemented through a TÁMOP project entitled The creation of social reintegration, successful integration of homeless people on the streets by the Public Foundation for Homeless people; Széchenyi 2020, Hungary's Government and others. So here is a documentation, a strategy that was not written during the Socialist Government, we did not finance it, it has nothing to do with the socialists, it is simply written by the competent people, in almost 50 pages, the so-called Homeless Strategy, in which we simply, if you look at it, Mr. Secretary of State, the table of contents, it is written down what should be done in order to help the homeless. And let us say that this strategy clearly shows that this is a complex issue; that it is not a criminal issue at all; that this issue cannot be solved by criminalisation. You can say that there are some people who think that they do not like someone who lives or lies on the street, or that sometimes people may even be afraid of him, I understand that you are trying to base yourself on this, but they should also base themselves on the fact that the vast majority of Hungarian society wants to help the homeless, so there is a positive support from the people to give a real answer to this question. Once again in this strategic document, this is the title of chapter 3 of a nearly 50-page material, which is to handle, reduce or reduce homelessness, and has such wordings or sub-items as, for example, a new form of supply in the . Social housing home, or. New regulators in the. Safe rental system, or.. New financial incentives incentivising the hiring taxes,.. New form of organization of the. Social housing agency,.. So, Secretary of State, there's a strategy document in the government's hands. I've read it, I'm not an expert on the subject, but as a layman, I can tell you that it defines absolutely rational and feasible programming points. I know the names of professionals who have worked on this material from my previous period, who are truly competent in this field. [[12.20]] I would simply ask the Secretary of State to take into account the opinions of the experts who are themselves supported, funded, requested; not the opinion of the opposition, it is possible to blame us. But don't ignore the opinions of professionals who work for you or work with your support, because they did put a really good strategy document on the table. In English, choose the real solution, not the fake solution. It's no coincidence that the title of this document, Mr. Secretary, is from the street to the apartment. So it's not the prison, it's the street to the apartment, and it's an important difference, as much as it doesn't make any difference to you. The third subject is the covert civilians. I keep hearing that everyone here is a fake civilian. Anyone who gives any opinion, who might be critical of the government, is a fake civilian. This is the easiest way to undermine the authority of these civilians among the Fidesz voters. If I were you, I'd listen to the sentences of these civilians. For example, I consider the CÖF to be more of a disguise, which receives half a billion forints to improve public thinking and works so transparently. At all, knowing he got that much, we had to sue separately. Now we need to sue separately so that we even know what kind of activity these funds were spent on. I honestly admit that I prefer to call these civil society organisations, such as the COF, a more civil self-acting group, with a short cut. And I think their work is like their name. They're a civil self-acting group, so they're actually PCCs. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-58	I am fulfilling my sad duty when I give you a warning for your last statement, Congressman. I think you, as the former president of the MSZP, should pay particular attention to what comes out of your mouth. Mr László Varju will be followed by a proper speech and a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-59	Thank you very much. I will try not to overwhelm the framework of the general debate, and then, accordingly, to draw attention to some of the points that, I think, may be important for the Secretary of State and enrich the arguments. The fact is that the people we are talking about and who they are are are not only our judgment, they are not only their judgment, but they are also precisely defined by the Secretary of State and the Ministry. Those we talk about, those who do home care, and the circumstances under which they have to endure, are described in the Ministry's decree itself exactly what to do. By describing this, I would like to draw attention to the fact that for those who do this work, home care as a work is likely to be interpreted differently in law for the Ministry, but they cannot interpret it differently. That is why it is necessary for you to recognise this in a legal sense. What is, therefore, in your definition, if the child is unable to use a toilet without the help of others only from sickness or disability, or to use an aid within the home, and if he cannot carry out at least two of the following three activities on his own: meals, dressing and cleaning, then a person is considered to be a person. And he needs help. And if I start from an example who may be 15, 35 or 55 years old, their help is indeed an activity whose primary concern is to have an emotional attachment with which he wants to do this, but if he does so and takes responsibility from the state institution in this sense, then you must strive to recognise this activity as an insurance relationship. Whoever does this, and let's add that everyone should think about it, not just the age, but the person who weighs 25, 35 or 55 kilograms, the helpless person who needs to be cared for, is clearly in the category that, I think, requires serious physical activity and work on the part of the nurses. For these reasons, it is important for them to recognise full and full recognition as an opportunity for service times, entitlement, insurance status, whatever legal category we start to use. I believe that, contrary to the state's obligation, which you are writing down, that the institutional system works at the price mentioned above, which I said in my previous statement, would work, and I think that you would come out much better than that, and let us not speak of the parties concerned separately, if they do so fully, and in this sense you consider that the duty of the State is to fully settle their legal situation. Therefore, the care fee must be adjusted to the minimum wage at all times, and accordingly, it is necessary to start them on that track, they cannot catch up, because they do not seem to have the will to do so, but they can do something about their further poverty. On the second point, I would like to point out once again that it was the intention of amending the Code of Work, which was just what was done in the Committee on Budgets. This amendment was then tabled, but you, the government, rejected it. That is why I am obliged to draw your attention repeatedly to the fact that not only is it a political approach, but it is also the proposal of professional organisations... and it is possible to go to very specific solutions, because we know that if this is recognised as an employment relationship, then the argument is that they will go on vacation. Well, my dear Secretary of State, this needs to be considered a little bit, and this can be done, especially if that service ring is operational, and the possibility of replacing and replacing those who perform care activities for a shorter period of time appears in the day care or in the support service. I therefore argue in favour of recognising this activity as a full-time employment relationship, which will allow them to be entitled to health insurance, to take leave, sick leave, and, as I said, also to resolve substitution. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the possibility of returning to the labour market after the cessation of care activities has to be re-regulated or re-evaluated. [[12.30]] On this basis, I expect and hope that you will take advantage of the possibility that, even by Members, it might be better for the Government to take into account the proposals made on its own initiative, to send this amendment to the committee responsible, and, by accepting it, we can really help to ensure that this victimous work, which, once again, I stress, will result in the recognition of work and social recognition in this way. I wish the Secretary of State to have a success in the next few days, and not to feel that it is only political bondage that we are talking about, so I ask my fellow Members to contribute to the fact that there are such amendments that we can decide on. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-29-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. Mr Zsolt Gréczy is coming from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm really trying to sum it up in two minutes. I am happy to be the one who always protects the period 2002-2010. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We're used to it!]] I think it's gonna be okay. I would just like to point out to Mr Kovács that the IMF loan that you have spoken about has already been used by the Orbán government, and that if you enter it... [[Nacsa Lawrence: And he paid me back! The president's ringing the bell.]] and if you enter it into any Internet search engine that: "Orbán-government press," you will find thousands of billions that have already been borrowed by the Orbán government. I would also like to point out to Mr Nacsa that, once he has opened this debate on which government has been recognised in the European Union or internationally, who has been stronger and more successful, in those very moments the European Parliament has condemned the Orbán Government by two decisions, one by the CEU case and the other by Gruevski. So I would like to indicate, for example, how and how the world took place here between 2002 and 2010 and how it is now taking place. And speaking of a visitation fee, not in our time, the doctors went out with three of them a day, but in your government's time, so that there is no doctor or nurse in this country. So you can condemn the visitation fee, but maybe if you had stayed, these doctors would still be here in Hungary. And just on one day, on the Gyurcsány government, to account for anything about health care, when the hospital department assisting premature children closes in Budapest because there is no doctor, it is very interesting when you sign up for this. I think that the social policy between 2002 and 2010 was strong, and I understand that you are also trying to help with this, but I do say that for the few billion forints that have been a debate here for hours, your friends in Hungary will raise half a stadium for a thousand people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, MSZP and independents.]]
u2018-11-29-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anett Vengeance is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-29-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see as a step forward that the healing of children who have experienced sexual crime is important in both spiritual and physical terms, and this is reflected in this bill, this is a good thing, but I asked for a word again because I would like to point out to the Secretary of State and to the Member that at the moment the institution of distance does not function properly, that the proper professional training of the police is missing from the system, so in this way the location which is in the family, and the biggest terrain of these sexual crimes, based on statistics, is not right today in Hungary. So we are not doing well in preventing sexual crimes committed against women or children, so I would like to ask you that if this case, which is beyond discussion, is very important to you, it should also become important that the judiciary or the police are able to act appropriately against domestic violence and sexual violence in such a way that, when the preliminary signs are shown and reported and reported by the police, the institutional system responds appropriately to this, because it can also be seen that these crimes are getting worse and that the institutional system is, unfortunately, very often, only able to take action, and is only informed of these crimes when there is a really serious crime in the family. I therefore ask you to pay attention to this, not only aftercare, but also prevention and proper protection of victims, both within the police and within the framework of justice. I ask you to pay attention to this, and thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-11-29-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to tell Mr Hajdu to reschedule his intention to speak, because I cannot speak for two minutes. Do you have it? [[On the sign of László Hajdu:]] Okay, thank you very much. Mr László Hajdu is next to take a proper speech.
u2018-11-29-65	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. It was noted that only Christian democrats can be expected in social care for those in need. I would like to mention that it is possible, but most of all it is the municipalities that can be expected. The law we are discussing here has executives, above all and almost exclusively the municipalities. A word doesn't say who the people who do this are implementing it in the 3180 settlements of the country. And if we look at what they see from what they see, then I hope that they do not watch this mediation saddened, because the norm from which they have to provide this service, which is also listed by the Secretary of State and by the law, is provided to the municipalities, which is devastating, the norm has almost not moved from which it must be financed for years. The stronger municipalities add about 60 percent, the very good ones 70 percent, to enable a complex social network to be implemented locally, so that state aid is slightly stronger than small, small settlements, cannot provide it than larger settlements, and the problem of the current bill is that I do not see it as secure from the source side. I would like to make one more comment. It was not said that social services were divided: in March 2015 they took social assistance from the municipalities and transferred it to the government office, and thus they brought together the government office and the two local authorities, the municipalities, because one of them is coming, and they tell him to go to the government office, because they are taking care of it there. The same was shared in the case of the social services office, half the municipalities do it, half the government office does it. In the legislative preparation, I think it sounded so nice that these things are fine here, there is too much distortion in implementation, and what the municipalities are doing in the case of family support, elderly care, troubled young people, is doing almost without funding. In fact, if civil society organisations were not fake NGOs, real civil society organisations, voluntary workers, we would not be able to implement them, and they are not complaining, but working. It is not the Christians that are to be expected, but the local governments and volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right! Applause in the ranks of DK, MSZP and independents.]]
u2018-11-29-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Attila Philip's mark:]] If you will, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-29-67	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to add three brief points to what has been said. I think that there are issues, and there are situations where debate or discussion requires due dignity and humanity, and, above all, objectivity and objectivity. This was mainly about the care fee, and I think that this is a specific situation. So I would like to thank everyone who has tried to comment on this with real improvement and help, who has not been able to jump this standard now, and I sincerely support that we can do it next time, although the Member does not seem to want to hear the answer. [[Gergely Arató: It is not your job to judge Members!]] I would like to address two issues here. One of them is that there have been many figures here regarding the care fee and the specifics. The fact is that between 2004 and 2010, a number of people spoke here from the former governing parties, and between 2004 and 2010 the rate of the highest care fee has increased by 15 percent, and compared to 2010 the current proposal will reach 270 percent; 270 percent and 15 percent! [[12.40]] This is where the term "responsible" and "special cruelty" has been mentioned several times. I do not think that this proposal can be dealt with in this respect. In recent years, the greatest increase in this area will take place now. We have also said many times about labour relations, there is no international example of working relations. In addition, the bill contains a change in this regard, and I mentioned it in the introduction, and I put it in particular, in addition to the fact that the nursing allowance represents a service period for retirement benefits, the amendment provides the opportunity to be considered as an insurance period for the care of persons with disabilities, and in line with the unemployment benefit, it will be paid for another three months in the event of termination. This means that if you are looking for a job income comparison, there has been so far that the pension was the same, the retirement period was the same, and now the same is the case in the provision of disability and unemployment. So I can say to the Member that employment is not an existing international practice, but that there are now advantages attached to the care fee which, to a large extent, grant these benefits in the same way. The last time we had discussions was last Friday with the largest disability organisations. This is precisely where the proposal, which Mr Sándor Kovács and Mr Korózs also mentioned, was made that, in relation to day care, whether it is a support service or a day-to-day institutional development, housing development, this can be a real help from the point of view that families can be freed. In the long term, we would like to continue to discuss this with interest representatives, just as we have done so far. In the case of the homeless, a congresswoman asked questions. I can continue to say that we have always said that the solution is to use the help of the homeless. Today I can say that the utilisation rate is 80.5 percent at national level, it is even less than 78,5 percent in Budapest, so there is room for homelessness, this can be used, and there is indeed a way to ensure the survival of winter cold without danger. The document from which we have just heard a quote, I would like to say to the Member, to reassure him, that is precisely the document which contains descriptions of the outer space, which is included in this bill, so that there can be an external space in the daytime institutions. It also includes one that is about the importance of not only housing but also work in social reintegration. This is precisely why the government launched the two-billion-dollar, first-time care program, in which we want to provide both work and housing for homeless people, because in the long term, the only solution is to take steps to reintegrate people from the homeless system. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who has done so, for their valuable contribution. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. I'll wait for the exchange to take place. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the bill amending certain health and health insurance legislation and certain health related laws until closure. Government referral T/3626. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-69	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. Health Act salads in spring and autumn, I think many people know them in many ways. In general, it means that a number of minor adjustments and, in many cases, large-scale amendments to the legal order should be changed in health regulators, which we are very committed to bringing to Parliament, and we expect very seriously that there will be a political debate and a common thinking that may have developed in 2011, when they voted on the law of non-smokers. We are convinced that health does not represent or reflect boundaries, in many respects neither in a political world nor in a geographical or political world. In this spirit, we are very confident that we can achieve health promotion, longer health life and minor differences in access to health, so that posterity also remembers that everyone who is in this room and comes here has added something. We have taken many steps since 2010 to ensure a year longer life expectancy in Hungary. In the money, in the attention, in the legislative amendments that served to make it a more modern health care system in its infrastructure, human resources and technically, the 21st century. Using the technical possibilities of the 20th century and representing its human values, there is a very serious financial and very serious political commitment. I am very grateful to all the Members, all the political forces, all the civilians inside and outside the country, for the people who have contributed to the success of the measures that have been taken. We can see the results of this result, starting in small steps, but the amount that has already turned to infrastructure, which is HUF 500 billion, is the work that has turned to the establishment of a single health space, and the efforts that have been made to keep human resources at home are effective, we can see them in numbers, we can talk about them. Dear House, The draft salad law before us now serves to make the adjustments that life requires for us to work in the health sector, its practice and the needs of the population in order to ensure safe and continuous health care. Of these, ten have been proposed in relation to health in various points, an amendment to the system, of which I would briefly summarise them. The first is the amendment of the Act of the year on Health Administration and Administration. This amendment is based on the fact that, although we have regulators for different data reporting in the healthcare sector, these regulators do not apply in everyday practice with the effect of detail that is necessary in order to accurately judge quality health work. Therefore, according to the amendment, the health service provider carrying out the special procedure for human reproduction should be provided, in electronic form, to the Minister for Health in charge of carrying out quality assessment tasks, on the basis of a separate statutory programme file on the subject of compulsory health insurance and to the intervention carried out during the non-funded reproductive procedure. The Minister operates the reproductive process database and will analyse these data using the appropriate service provider method. Based on the database, we draw up a statistical summary annually and provide it to international databases accordingly. We will always send to the President of the Human Reproduction Committee until 20 February following the reference year so that he can complete the statistical summary. This amendment is necessary because not all providers do so disciplinefully at the moment. Our second amendment proposal is the 1997 XLVII on the management and protection of health and related personal data. It applies to law and concerns sickness registers and the electronic health service provider's space. From the point of view of disease registers, we propose a precise regulation to have a single regulatory framework on who has the obligation to keep a register for diseases of major importance for public health purposes, the obligation to transmit data, the manner in which this is done, the duration of data processing and the purpose of the management of the register. We know from the experience of other countries that these strict patient follow-ups can greatly improve quality care work, and we know from domestic experience that the successful eradication of TB in Hungary, with which we have been able to significantly turn a morphus hungaricus into a rare disease, has been particularly helpful in such a reporting obligation and such a surveillance system. This is what we want to achieve not only in the event of a heart attack, but also in other significant groups of diseases. Sector management will be empowered to regulate this by means of a ministerial regulation. [[12.50]] In the technical development of the Hungarian health care system, a powerful and powerful result is the development of a single electronic health service space. It's got health profiles in it. You know, you can find out for yourself, if you've been to a doctor, if you've been to a state-funded care facility, those services are almost complete by now. In these health profiles, the treating physician and the general practitioner are currently entitled to provide information. We are committed that if the OVSZ learns blood type, it must provide data, save lives. It can help us not to have to wait for a new blood type determination in case of urgency, but to have complete data, and in the case of hundreds of thousands of people, we can do so very easily. You've seen, you can see, on blood donor day, data has been said that 400 thousand people give blood to everyone nationwide every year. If we can only use this database, these people, if they get sick, can get faster help with blood replacements. Our next amendment is an amendment to the Act of the Year on the provision of compulsory health insurance, in which the amendment proposes that, in the public service, government service, public service or public service relationship, as well as in the professional service relationship with law enforcement bodies, as well as to those who have a professional or contractual or voluntary reserve service with the Hungarian Defence Agency who have permanently worked in an EEA Member State and who have access to health insurance benefits in the host State under the same conditions. Next is the annual CLIV on health. amendment of the law. The law regulates the regulation of the National Committee on Breast-feeding in two areas, and the other regulates blood sampling activities for industrial purposes. The first is a very serious part of what we think of family-friendly, baby-friendly, mother-friendly obstetric activity, for which we advocated the creation of the legal form of home birth in 11 which still works, and has contributed significantly to the ability to talk a lot... and our commitment to the introduction of the good cycle of birth and birth in domestic maternity practice, can be formulated in the population, and we can show the operation of it in force. This is at a time when there are very serious forces against feeding breast milk to small newborns, which there is a number of evidence that it means the most for their health, there is professional advice to this, and there is a committee that can give a meaningful input. I will ask for your support to support the establishment and regulation of this committee in this amending proposal. The other area is the legislation governing the conduct of blood sampling activities for industrial purposes. This was requested by the Ministry of Justice in a preliminary consultation on the amendment of an EÜM regulation which clearly calls for the extension of the existing authorisation in the Health Act with the authorisation to regulate blood sampling for industrial purposes. On this basis, we can draw up a ministerial regulation providing for professional rules that will apply to control and registration activities. The following is the amendment to the 2005 Act on medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market, related to homeopathic medicinal products, which you obviously know are not clinically proven and, if used, the patient's recovery may be adversely affected by delaying the initiation of the necessary therapies, especially if it is not necessary and effective due to the use of homeopathic medicinal products. We are talking about human lives, and we are talking about the quality of human life, healings. In this amending proposal, for homeopathic medicinal products authorised prior to membership of the European Union with a therapeutic proposal, these would be required to remain on the market only after the transitional period if they comply with the provisions of the pharmaceutical code and the domestic legislation transposing them. This is what the world expects of us, which is what Europe expects of us. Most importantly, I think that's what we doctors in the system expect, and that's what our patients expect from those drugs, the substances we recommend to improve their health. Next is the amendment of the 2006 Law on Professional Chambers in Health. The rules on ethics and electoral procedures will be clarified in this regard. In line with the practice of other chambers in the form of public bodies, the amendment removes the restriction that the chamber member may be elected to the same office at most two consecutive times and settles cases where several chamber members are involved in an ethical matter and the question is unclear: which area or organisation is competent for the assessment of the case. We believe that a solution to a negative discrimination would take place in the context of the chambers concerned. XCVIII of 2006 on the general rules for the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and the distribution of medicinal products. Two technical amendments to the amendment of the Act are what this is intended to do. One of them is the bylaw of the executive of the patical capital programme, the manager of the capital fund, and not a specific name, which would mean that every change of name would require a continuous amendment of the law in order to make it possible to operate legally. The other is a clarification amendment which contains a transfer aid scheme for the relocation of a public pharmacy. Several pharmacies have received a signal in this direction with this request. The following is the amendment to the 2012 Act on the taking-over of inpatient establishments and amending certain laws relating to the take-over of municipal authorities. The Act provides that the assets acquired by the institutions received after receipt are automatically transferred to their maintainer, the State Healthcare Services Centre. At the same time, MNV Zrt. exercises ownership rights in the case of its own purchases by ÁEEK. will be, even though they are also part of the public health service assets, for which the exercise of ownership rights and obligations is generally assigned by the legislative will to the ÁEEC. In order to remedy this duality, the amendment proposed that the ÁEEK should be entitled to exercise the ownership rights and obligations of the State in respect of the assets generated on the basis of its own acquisitions and investments. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The following is the amendment to the Act on Basic Health Care of 2015 relating to the protection women, the boundaries of the protection women, their design and termination. The amendment requires that the patroness provide the care to a Hungarian citizen who is resident in Hungary and, on request, to a foreign national who is resident in Hungary. The proposal states that the caregiver and legal representative of the pregnant mother and of the child with limited capacity or disability, if not living in the territory of Hungary, shall be exempt from the obligation to cooperate with the protective woman if, in the case of the pregnant mother, the place of residence of the child in the case of a minor child or, failing that, the notary competent for the place of residence of the child is notified in writing, who shall immediately inform the protective woman accordingly. You may feel, you may know, a very important guarantee of the well-being of the child is that there is an administrative obligation for all actors in order to enable the child to develop in a healthy way; this should be known to the protective woman if anything is to be achieved. In this cooperation, it is a lifelong amendment proposal to fix the points that may happen in the event of a stay abroad, but to guarantee the child the rights that are absolutely necessary for his health. [[13.00]] The last is to impose stricter penalties for abuse of certain psychotropic substances. All substances covered by Directive 2017/2103/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, the 1971 United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances and the Psychotropic Convention are considered to be drugs, whereas Annex 1 to the Criminal Code treats them as dangerous psychotropic substances as defined in the list of 1.1 P1 and P2. So there's discrimination between the two regulators. In view of the fact that substances included in the P3 and P4 lists of psychotropics are also active substances that are widely used, and therefore the psychotropic convention itself contains different, lighter rules for substances included in lists P3 and P4 compared to those included in lists P1 and P2. These substances were not considered to be drugs on the basis of the current or previous criminal law rules. The current Btk for abuse of such substances is currently the current Btk. According to him, the facts of the forgery of a health product or the criminal offence of a medicinal product may be applied. The Btk. Therefore, while sanctioning the counterfeiting of the health product, which also covers the activities to be sanctioned under Directive 2017/2103/EU in respect of the conduct of the offence, the penalties are lower than those laid down in the Directive in the case of substances on lists P3 and P4. In view of all of this, the proposed legislation excludes the medicinal product from the concept of a health product and, in new cases, as a forgery of medicinal products, is sanctioned by criminal behaviour in relation to medicinal products, thus ensuring full compliance with Directive 2017/2103/EU and by Btk. internal coherence. The proposal also includes technical amendments to other relevant laws, which are necessary as a result of the introduction of new facts, the counterfeiting of medicinal products. Dear Parliament, From what has been said, I think it can be seen that there is now a package of laws with several amendments before Parliament, and we have very serious work to do. We are counting on the dialogue that forms the basis of this work, we are counting on the dialogue that is a constructive discussion of our common affairs with which we would like to serve the greatest possible value of people, their health. I trust you to support T/3626. Our bill number 1 and support the work that we are doing to protect and represent the health of health and, above all, the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-29-70	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I also welcome my fellow Members. The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Agnes Molnár, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-29-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, Parliament is discussing a package of health laws in which the right thinking is, I think, if we look at the legislation, in the context of the amending legislation, together with the measures that have occurred or are expected in the area concerned. This bill amends a total of nine health laws and several health-related but not sectoral laws. In conjunction with Mrs Secretary of State's exposé, allow me to highlight a little more areas that are of paramount importance to me. First of all, the tasks of the national medical institutions will be defined by law, so it is stipulated by law that national medical institutions perform healing, organizational, methodological, research and educational activities, and do so within professional groups of outstanding importance from a public health point of view. We know very well that there are 11 national medical institutions, and these 11 national medical institutions have, in recent weeks, put together and launched health programs in five areas, which were supported in the first round by the government yesterday. On the one hand, national medical institutions, besides clinics, are the top institutions of their profession, so their activities are inevitable in the field of oncology, pediatrics, rehabilitation or pulmonary medicine. The aim is to strengthen national institutions, to recognise their role and place in the care system. The government's decision proves that. On the other hand, these institutions focus on areas of public health importance, as I have said, in five areas the national health programmes' action plans have been adopted. These programmes have been prepared with the professional responsibility of national medical institutions in the given areas, in order to reduce cancer, circulatory, musculoskeletal diseases, childhood diseases and mental illness. These health programmes can form the backbone of the new public health programme, which will thus be a complex, uniform response to the major health challenges in the future. A forward-looking step, closely linked to national institutions, to achieve their task by standardising the rules on disease registers. Uniform rules will be established and the detailed rules for each register will be laid down in a ministerial regulation, the amendment will specify the purpose of the management of the registers in the case of diseases of public health importance, the method of transmission and the duration of data processing. The establishment of disease registers is of particular importance for public health. So far, there are virtually two registers, the register of myocardial infarction and oncological diseases. We would like to develop these further. It is essential to strengthen our knowledge of the further renewal of the public health and health system. It is very important that we adopted the Basic Supply Act three years ago. It was this government that even thought about the basic supply system having a separate law. This is the 2015 CXXIII. Law, which we would like to make some amendments to in this package of laws. It is very important that the Basic Supply Act be supplemented and clarified with the most important areas of cooperation between the child's GP and the protective woman. As the Secretary of State has said, the GP, the GP and the regional defender responsible for the place of residence shall cooperate with each other and inform her in writing within a specified period, within 72 hours, of the start of the basic care, of the cases requiring increased care and of the completion of the basic care. It is very important that the child's general physician, the child's general practitioner, is obliged to send the territorial defender a written report within 72 hours of the completion or non-compliance with the age-related compulsory vaccination. I would like to mention here that Hungary is performing outstandingly with regard to vaccinations compared to other European countries, and we have achieved a 98 percent vaccination. To maintain a 98 percent graft, this is one of the important pillars of developing such a living relationship between the protective woman and the general pediatrician. This will ensure epidemiological security for the country if we can maintain this exemplary graft. In the same way, you must also inform the protective woman during the screening tests of the occurrence and the outcome of the examination of the lesions indicated above by the territorial protective woman to the general practitioner. As part of the amendment, if new protection areas are to be established, terminated and amended, it is essential that, in the future, after the decision of the body of representatives of the municipality, the national chief officer asks for an opinion, since professional management and supervision of the protective care are included. [[13.10]] With regard to basic care, we should mention what measures have been taken so far. Today we can provide more than 70 percent more money to support GPs and GPs than we have for eight years: GPs receive half a million more support per month, more precisely 520 thousand forints than they have been for four years; we help access to the practice and fill the permanently unfilled districts with applications for practice rights and residency applications. So far, thanks to the effectiveness of the applications, we have managed to provide dental care for 573 thousand residents and 175 thousand inhabitants by filling the empty districts, eliminating substitution in the given areas. The importance of basic supply is not enough to emphasise. It is also a pleasure that Minister Kásler announced today that the government had discussed further measures on basic care yesterday and provided support for health policy. The bill also proposes to regulate homeopathy, in addition to amendments aimed at combating drug counterfeiting. The therapeutic effect of homeopathic medicinal products is not clinically proven, so their use has a detrimental effect on the healing process of patients by delaying the initiation of the necessary therapies, and it is necessary to regulate it. In particular, this may be the case if the really necessary treatment is not carried out due to the use of homeopathic preparations. If the patient does not receive appropriate treatment on a scientific basis due to the use of homeopathic medicinal products, the doctor may need to treat not only the underlying disease but also the complication, the patient's chances of getting worse. Therefore, the bill states that, during the authorisation procedure, homeopathic medicinal products are subject to stricter conditions than they currently are required to demonstrate a scientifically justified therapeutic effect, so homeopathic medicinal products should not be given a simplified marketing authorisation. Of course, we do not have to go too far, even in neighbouring Austria, similar regulations are in place for homeopathic preparations today. The government also aims to implement family-friendly maternity care at national level in line with the government's efforts in family policy. A complex action plan has been developed to facilitate this, one of the pillars of which is the establishment of a system of baby-friendly obstetrics, and the rethinking and strengthening of the role of the National Committee for Lactation. This requires legal support so that the full mandate of the National Committee on Lactation can then be regulated by a ministerial decree. And, of course, with the introduction of the electronic health service space in November 2017, a huge step has been taken: Hungary has created a European and world-leading, nationally integrated digital health basic structure. The central element of the domestic IHSZ system is the ESZT. We should be proud to have been able to lay the foundations for such a system in 2017, and say a year after that that the application begins step by step from the test mode. We need to know that data saves lives, and this is how we need to start applying the ESTE. Of course, this requires a great deal of cooperation from staff in the care system, doctors and general practitioners. This platform is currently linking island-like IT systems with the use of modern, standard technologies, and the primary purpose of this use is to ensure that the data generated in connection with patient care and the necessary data are transmitted to professionals involved in the care of patients. The amendments in the current bill serve to achieve these goals, which provide the possibility for the National Blood Supply Service to record blood group data in the ESZT system, and the health profile service in the ESZT ensures that the patient's most typical health summary data, their health profile, can be recorded. According to the current rules, the doctor and the GP are entitled to record data in the health profile. As part of the current package of laws, the proper punishment for counterfeiting of medicinal products is implemented by regulating the criminal code, and it is also important that thanks to this law, Hungarians and their family members in the foreign service can obtain health insurance benefits under the same conditions in the host State. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the current legislative amendments, although of a number of smaller volumes, still forward-looking, represent important amendments, and for me the current legislative amendment package and the ministerial and government decision announced today, show that there is, indeed, work in the sector, as has been done so far, in an ambitious and forward-looking way. On the part of myself and the Fidesz faction, I support this work and this proposal, and I urge my fellow Members to support the proposal before us for the benefit of patients and those working in the system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-72	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-29-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We welcome the Secretary of State for the first time here within the walls of the Parliament, and we are very pleased that she could come in and participate in a detailed health debate, even with a record speed change in the health government that has taken place over the past period, and we are a little bit afraid of even opposition-wise about whether the appropriate transition can be achieved in that time. I do not know whether, by the way, the salad law is the indigo of this, so that it shows the work that it has done or has not done so far, but it is certain that every autumn or, if, in the spring, health or health-related laws are passed between the walls of the House, we always provide a look-out for current problems. I would overlook that for one thing, because, Madam Secretary, I have also tried to watch you speak, as if you had measured on a pharmacy scale not to deal with too many things that are different from the current professional debate, but that is very important and that is where the word is taken from or in a professional debate in this House. I would like to say that one of the responsibilities of all of us in this House is to debate health in a reasonable and normal manner as often as possible, which is usually lacking. In your chair, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who tends to settle these debates with arrogance and attitude, may be in a less constructive genre. But, Madam Secretary, we invite you to a debate that is expected to take place in spring, where health will be on the table, and then we can debate everything that concerns or arises on current government issues, because you have a lot of forward-looking suggestions, believe me, for the opposition, as the opposition does for the government to respect its good proposals. However, as far as the bill itself is concerned, I will deal with three priority issues, but first, let me say in two sentences the criticism that came to my mind about the bill. [[13.20]] One of them and this has unfortunately been regular, and we have been used to the lack of social consultation for the past four years. This bill may not even have been read on kormany.hu, so it has not been widely consulted, and according to my information, a lot of professional organisations, people who have otherwise been affected by these issues, have not been consulted. One of the most important elements of the professional consultation, of course, was your reference to the fact that, since the request for amendment of the legislation from the Chambers of Commerce, pharmaceutical organizations, they were probably consulted with them, but there were a number of other organisations with which they failed to consult. It would be very important to negotiate with them every time, even because the medical salad law is not coming at an unplanned pace, almost everyone knows, as the sun otherwise rises and calms down that this legislation will arrive at the end of the year and settle sectoral relations. So I would like to make a criticism of the lack of consultation. It is, believe me, Secretary of State, not a consultation, if Zsolt Bayer's wife is consulted at the National Blood Supply Service, and she can be consulted in other ways, the profession should be consulted and consulted much wider. The other thing I was saddened to see was that this may be one of the shortest and least content medical salad laws in the past period, and it would be necessary to regulate much more relationships. For example, we could regulate the working situation of health sector workers. We have seen that individual representatives have the courageous ambitions of Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry to interfere in the lives of the workers and to be forced to work to death with a slave law. And there would still be an affair in health care, but that's just an example I highlighted, emergency care, emergency medical care. I think we could bring in 10-15 topics where there are a lot of regulations that are not in place, or there are still shortcomings in relation to the EST that we are talking about here. To date, I have not been given an answer, for example, and this is just a detour to the extent that the ESTE complies with the newly adopted EU Data Protection Directive, because I think it does not comply with a lot of things. So let's just say that the ESP is not GDPR-positive, despite the fact that you have repeatedly referred to it in a written reply that it is, but I don't think it is. And if we do not correct these shortcomings, then we risk exposing these databases to future fines for institutions or even general practitioners. But further on, let us focus on the topics that are actually the subject of the salad law. The first is the question of homeopathy. I think there are very few things among people that would be more divisive than the love or rejection of homeopathy. Obviously, everyone understands the accumulated knowledge of the evidence-based medicine and the research of the many researches and the active substances and the functioning of the drugs, but some of the population is or are attracted to homeopathy at some level. And apparently, in the spirit of plurality, of preserving diversity, man says that it's okay. So up to a certain level, you're going to say that everyone has their own choice of what they use, what they believe in, healing is not just a medical issue, but I think it's also a spiritual question. I may not say this again, since Minister Miklós Kásler himself said that spirituality has at least as much to do with how a patient is healing or feeling healthy or sick. But what I see in this bill is a regulatory method that you essentially want homeopathic and homeopathic preparations to be resounded, at some level, to deter consumers from consuming it with a nasty word. Obviously, what I see behind it is that you have now tried to put a system of administrative rules, a framework that you believe can be controlled, limited and limited to some reasonable limit. I said that I basically believe in people's choice, and I believe as a lawyer that administrative tools can achieve the best results if they are pinpoint and best defined. At the moment, what you are proposing to amend in this legislation is inappropriate. One thing it's gonna do is put an unnecessary administration, just a pregnant administration on the back of pharmacists and pharmacies. So in the debate on where we stand with homeopathy and the effectiveness of medicines, first, scientific life and society will have to hold a debate, they will have to come up with a position, and then we can talk about regulation, how we regulate and how we protect consumers in it. But what you're about to do, because I think you're running ahead of this problem, and if I look at your underlying interests or your control intentions, I can tell you that I'm not sure that you're going in the right direction, and even the related device can cause more damage and unnecessary administration. The penalty also makes it clear what they intend to do. We are talking about the obligation to provide information, which we understand as regards non-conventional therapies and, by the way, homeopathic medicinal products. Although there could be a debate here that the regulation of homeopathic preparations could be interpreted under the possibility of non-conventional therapies at all, because there is a ministerial decree in this regard, which does not consider it to be relevant. Therefore, due to the lack of information on homeopathic preparations, it is not possible to initiate infringement proceedings. But let's put it all in parentheses because I think it also shows how bad the device that has been assigned to the target is, that is, to declare a failure to provide information as an infringement, because it may not have been well defined the purpose for which you want to shoot at. I believe that the uncertainty about the right to information and the obligation to provide information, and even what we call the recommendation of the person using therapy or the pharmacist, do not help to resolve the case, in particular by covering violations, as well as penalties and crimes, a logically closed, strict and precise, literal wording and behaviour that people can understand. Neither the obligation to provide information, which is included in the Health Act, nor the recommendation, which is not provided for in anything, includes that accuracy. So I propose, and Jobbik has also proposed an amendment to this, that we put these regulatory intentions in parentheses now and leave them out of this bill, because the instrument that the government intends to use is not appropriate. Of course, it will be possible to hold a debate on this, which is why it is important to have a social consultation so that these debates can be resolved and moved on. As regards the extension of the term of chamber officials: Jobbik obviously knows that there is a signal from the chambers that this kind of restriction, that someone can fill these official statuses twice, they would like to dissolve it. Our firm position for a very long time has been that the autonomy of the chambers, its own self-government, is not interfered by politics and political parties. So the last thing I can say is that whatever the Chamber proposes, the legislature has only one task in relation to professional chambers: to create a regulatory environment that improves the participation of chamber members in chamber life, participation in decision-making, the most frequent exercise of membership rights, as we have seen, as I have seen, too, and also in view of my legal profession, that we have often faced a crisis in the bar of lawyers that very few members were empowered by the current Presidency because they did not feel the chamber activity. I wish all chambers of commerce that this might be the least of their problems, how this law should be amended, a successful, prosperous membership life with as many chamber members as possible, because this is the best way to achieve their autonomy. As regards the amendment of the Btk.: I do not feel the closed coherence that Madam State Secretary has spoken about. Exactly what I have just said is that there must be a very well-defined and very closed logic system for infringement laws and criminal codes, and I think that this is the amendment that is now being dealt with. And I'll tell you what my point of view is, and of course we can argue about that. I believe that the regulation that we have now is 186. With regard to new psychotropic substances, which is one of the plagues and an explosive problem of our time, the illegal use of designer drugs or other related medicines or medicinal products, so it is true that we have managed our available legal space well and in my opinion, by placing under a health product umbrella or such a large group all the criminal behaviours, all the items of crime and the persons who may have committed a qualifying case. [[13.30]] I think it's a duplication, especially with 186. We're bringing him in before §185/A. I do not think that it will help the closed coherence of this legislation. In fact, it will give much more difficult orientation, because we will not be able to determine whether the two acts or the two facts have a relationship with each other in terms of speciality. So what will be the general M.O., the facts that we can apply to everyone, and when will he cross over, let's say, the attitude of 186. to be classified in accordance with § 5. So it's also very difficult for me to see it well. One thing is certain: the new provision that applies to psi-chotrop materials and can help the government and the law enforcement authorities in the fight against designer drugs, where they need to be placed in the legislation, is not only our international obligation and compliance obligation, but also our social obligation. I, on the other hand, would have preferred to put it much closer to drug-related and related abuse. By the way, understanding that most of these preparations were created as a by-product of health care, in the end, often in remote or eastern laboratories, which are equipped to humiliate Hungarian state or Western labs, the fight is very important, but I do not think it is in the right place. This does not, of course, undermine the quality or outcome of the amendment itself, or of this proposal. This is a very important and important goal to support. This is not only Jobbik's position, but my fellow Member, Mr Rig, has also dealt with this issue a lot personally. Indeed, one of the greatest challenges of modern times is how we can fight with this rapidly spreading modern - day plague. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for coming in and telling me everything that is in this bill, but this bill, as I said, and this criticism of the lack of consultation or perhaps because of the fact that it had to be prepared too quickly and contains quite a lot of shortcomings, does not cover the problems that the health sector is facing now, in the autumn of 2018, but also Hungary, the Hungarian patients. I think it can only be said with goodwill that we are considering how Jobbik should vote on this issue. We miss a lot of it, there are a lot of answers that could have been a response to the health crisis in the autumn of 2018. But we will be able to talk about them for the rest of the debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-29-74	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-11-29-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to understand why this amendment of the law lies before us now, this salad law and to understand how we have come to this point, I would like to give you a little more perspective. In the previous debate, my colleague Zsolt Gréczy said that he would always be the one to protect the government between 2002 and 2010, so I will always be the one to give him the opportunity to do so. I would like to say that since 2010, what measures, budgetary increases and renovations have helped us to get here, so that this autumn we will discuss this important salad law, which seems to be minor amendments, which in many places means a clearer situation, clearer regulation, easier for the law-abiding people, and, in some respects, there are a lot of forward-looking things. We know that before 2010, there were continuous withdrawals in health care and thousands of workers on the street. Health expenditure per capita in real terms decreased in Hungary between 2003 and 2009 alone from all OECD countries. In the meantime, we were talking about a hospital allowance and a visitation fee, which we managed to prevent by bringing people together. We also need to see that left-wing governments have abolished active care in dozens of hospitals, and some institutions have been permanently blocked, such as OPNI, Svábhegy Children's Hospital, Schöpf-Mere Hospital. Since 2010, we have spent HUF 546 billion more on health care, and we will increase this support further next year, in the next year's budget, by more than HUF 100 billion more on healthcare than this year. Imre László, our fellow Member in the committee, has always rightly suggested that we count these in real terms. This is also a much higher amount in real terms than the amounts available to the health area in the Hungarian central budget in the years 2002-2010. Hospitals will have more than 52 billion extra resources next year. Today's announcement to Minister Kásler that the government will consolidate the health sector and hospitals with an additional HUF 55 billion, and that the government will launch an additional wage increase programme to improve the situation of women and public health workers, leading to an average increase of 72 percent by 2022. I think that everyone can welcome this, and these are important advances, and opposition criticism is often a legitimate criticism, but often it is only by addressing political criticism and improving the situation of health workers that the government has made these decisions. It is important to say that next year we will spend more money on the GP and pediatric networks, this framework will increase by HUF 1.5 billion, and the funding for medical and dental care will increase by 4 billion in 19 respectively. We have a very big development ahead of us in the program, as in the coming years there will be a HUF 700 billion development in hospitals in Budapest and the surrounding area. Only 42 billion HUF will be spent on medical supplies next year, and 25 hospitals will be developed, as well as 7 individual clinics. Not only are hospital buildings being renovated, but as we travel all over the country, in county-righted cities, and look at county hospitals, we see that they have undergone very serious renovations in recent years. You enter there with a completely different feeling than you did before, since now you have XXI. The investigation can take place in a 100th century environment. I think that the new tools and devices are also prepared for the challenges of the new age, digitalisation. I think it is very important for the government to spend more and more on acquiring new assets. This, I think, is assured next year. What is particularly important to us, the Christian Democratic Group, and I had the opportunity to participate in the preparation of my ministry work earlier, is the development of family-friendly obstetrics, as we will spend HUF 10 billion on this next year. The goal is to welcome families in every maternity ward, where the least vulnerable, with human dignity in mind, can give birth to their child in the most secure way. This also contributes to a family-friendly approach that has characterised the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010 to create an environment where couples can always make their decision to have children and where the desired children can always be born. Here, I would also like to mention that there are important improvements in this issue, too, in this law. Healthcare workers can count on this government as we launched a multi-annual wage increase programme in 2016. In addition to this, the Minister announced an additional programme under yesterday's government decision. The average wage increase is 65 percent between 16 and 19 percent for the nurses, and the salary of the specialists has increased by 207 thousand forints in the last two years. We will be able to move forward as soon as the country grows stronger, and health workers will be able to move forward. For example, the third quarter data shows that economic growth has already reached 5 percent in Hungary. We would like to maintain this process, we would like to strengthen further so that everyone, every layer of society, so that health workers can also benefit from this strengthening. In this framework, in this atmosphere, in this context, we are beginning to negotiate the current law, which amends many important laws; among other things, the 1991 XI. a law, where important data gaps are covered by the proposal. XLVII of 1997 on the management and protection of health and related personal data is amended. a law proposing to standardise the rules on disease registers. I cannot stress that all legislative proposals, any amendments that appear to be technical, which clearly create a more transparent, cleaner environment, and where law-makers, law-abiding users, are able to find a simpler way to find out, data reporting becomes more smoother, the work they do becomes smoother, simpler, in any case linked to a reduction in health bureaucracy, and this is always to be welcomed. I don't think there's any discussion between us. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] In addition, the 1997 LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance benefits is amended. Law, where the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that, in the context of a public service, government service, public service or public service, as well as in the professional service relationship with law enforcement bodies, as well as with the Hungarian Defence Agency, they are permanently employed in a Member State of the European Economic Area and have access to health insurance benefits under the same conditions as those of their family members in the host State. [[13.40]] We consider the 1997 CLIV on health to be a priority and a step forward. amendment of law. This is where I referred to family-friendly obstetrics. I think that Hungary and the Hungarian government in Europe are among those who want to deal with population problems not with immigration, but with the strengthening, support and protection of Hungarian families and families with children. I think that this is why it is important to have a national consultation which has started in the weeks now, where citizens can express their views on Hungarian families, family policy, support and protection for families with children. We ask everyone to fill this out, now you can fill it out online, send it back to contribute to further family-friendly measures. Family-friendly obstetrics, which have already been discussed in the budgetary debate, and for which there is considerable resources available in the budget for next year in order to achieve this benefit at national level, are a priority objective. In order to facilitate this, a complex action plan has been developed, the second pillar of which, one of the elements of the development of the methodological pillar, along with the establishment of a system of baby-friendly obstetrics, it is very important that the role of the National Committee on Lactation should be rethinked and strengthened on this issue. I think that this support, this reinforcement, is certainly welcome, because it is extremely important, as the Secretary of State has said, that the promotion and strengthening of breast milk feeding can be campaign-like. I also consider it important to reduce the marketing of homeopathic products. I do not fully agree with my fellow Member, László Lukács, because many times people, whether they are health professionals or those who talk to health professionals themselves, influence patients' choices, do not get full information, so they cannot make a full opinion and make decisions in every case. Unfortunately, there is also such a trend, which is why I consider this amendment proposal important. From the point of view of young people, however, I fully agree with my better fellow Member that we are in any case in favour of imposing stricter penalties for the abuse of certain psychotropic substances. I think that this is a very important step forward. I agree with the use of that word, I didn't put it that way, but a plague or a plague of our time is also a correct expression on this subject. I definitely think we're gonna have to go to the wall here as far as possible. A few weeks ago, we discussed a similar topic, the inclusion of certain psychotropic substances on the list, and we had the opportunity to express our views on this. I believe that there is a high degree of consistency here in this House with regard to the spread and use of these materials as much as possible. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the work that has been done in such a short time, and I wish you good luck in the future, and the KDNP faction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-76	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-29-77	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Welcome to the walls of the House. I hope we'll be lucky to have each other over the next few years, and you won't be like your predecessor when you've been discharged after six months. I wouldn't be happy to do this, I'll tell you honestly, because that would mean that eight State Secretarys would change seats here during the four-year term. I would like to limit myself to the presentation, all the more so, because there are some approaches that can be welcomed, and I will do so. Such as the imposition of cooperation obligations or compliance with EU law in relation to the basic supply. These, I think, should definitely be mentioned in praise of the proposal. I would like to point out that, in my view, this proposal seeks to impose sanctions in the event that the healthcare provider fails to fulfil its obligation to communicate information even after the request of the administrative body. In this context, the reasons show that it has been a problem for years that healthcare providers do not always fulfil their mandatory communication tasks. This statement is a small confession from the central government, by the way. For years, the lack or lack of access to health statistics has been the subject of criticism. This criticism has recently been particularly intense, as in recent weeks there has been a signal of hospital infections that hospital infections and as a result deaths are not properly documented and many cases remain hidden. I myself have interpelled here, but other opposition representatives have also spoken on these matters. The proposal is therefore trying to change these data gaps. This direction should be encouraged, as the government is lagging behind in the field of health statistics. However, it is a fundamental mistake that they are not working on a meaningful solution, but only on a symptomatic treatment. Proposals for prevention of hospital infections, extension of screening tests and management of hospitals have been constantly received by the health profession, mainly because they will not be able to fulfil the increased administrative documentation tasks. The primary reason for this is the shortage of professionals and workers. Some health managers also point out that the public sector cannot compete with private workers in the shortage of labour and that health professionals cannot stay. In these matters, I have spoken here several times myself. It is clear that even if the government does not take any action, there will be two levels of healthcare in Hungary, and it also shows that the private sector is able to pay its employees, thus sucking away highly qualified, good professionals from the public health care system, often twice or three times as high as they can be paid in the public health care system. Dear House, Modelling the situation, so we see that the state is reducing working conditions in health through inadequate funding, keeping salaries low, even if Minister Kásler has just made this announcement today. I do not know if I understand it correctly, I concluded from the announcement that this increase in wages will be applied to those who have so far missed the wage increase, or, I do not know, Mrs Secretary of State will mention whether this will have an overall impact on everyone. In Romania, it has recently been announced that they are making huge amounts more money in public health than in Hungary, and there they are going from the private sector to public health, unlike in Hungary. The health government wants to solve its own problems by drawing more resources from service providers through sanctions. This is an unthinkable and unjustified provision which, in my view, cannot be supported for this reason. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The proposal also makes changes to the design of the health profile and allows the National Blood Supply Service to record blood type data electronically. There's no problem with that in itself. However, a major change in the proposal in relation to health data is the fact that the Minister may establish a disease register for the diseases specified in the regulation. The disease register, which is proposed to apply to diseases with a significant burden on society or individuals, is a significant change compared to the current one. At present, the state register, cancer and myocardial infarction are set at a legal level. Under the change, these diseases can be designated in the Minister's regulation, but this solution is of particular concern to the right to information self-determination. CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. In principle, law requires that the reason for the processing be determined at a legal level. In some cases the municipal decree also allows, but this circle is narrow. [[13.50]] The legislation so far has complied with this by determining the diseases, but the regulation under the proposal does not meet this requirement. The definition of the Ministerial Regulation gives the Minister the opportunity to fill this provision of the Act with substance. This is in any event contrary to the provisions of the info law. Even if the aim is to increase the public register of diseases, otherwise it can be supported, this can only be done legally if the list of diseases for which a register is operated is regulated by law. The third amendment to the proposal is due to health insurance for persons serving at foreign representations. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that members of the military staff who serve abroad on the basis of a public mandate are able to obtain health care under the same conditions. The reasons for the proposal show that the current situation will entail serious additional costs, because in 2017 the amendments on the subject of foreign affairs administration took away the possibility for those serving abroad to choose to account for their costs in accordance with EU regulations or Hungarian social security rules. The aim of the proposal is therefore to remedy this reverse situation, to compensate those working at foreign representations and to ensure that they can be used under healthy conditions in the future. The proposal will start with the task that the government has already said before to create or take action against legislation on homeopathic agents. As a first step, the proposal states in an eligible way that homeopathic medicinal products that have therapeutic indications can only remain in the market after 2020 if they otherwise fulfil the EU conditions for medicinal products. The proposal also provides for an increased communication of information, since if a homeopathic agent is recommended, the information should also be provided in writing. The proposal also includes health professional chambers, such as the Hungarian Chamber of Medicine, the Hungarian Chamber of Pharmacy, the Chamber of Health Professionals, as you mentioned, the provisions of the State Secretary. The essence of this is to allow the chamber officials to be re-elected in an unlimited number. Such solutions are particularly problematic and lead to dynastic arrangements in organisations where professional aspects should prevail. In the case of children's illness, the proposal provides for an obligation to provide information and cooperation in primary care between the GP, the GP and the nurse. This part of the proposal is interesting because it points to a territorial integration in which participants in the basic supply provide this type of service together. Thus, the proposal has been a model programme for many years, with several participants and other practice communities being set up by the government by 2020. This motion can be assessed as a step towards its creation and dissemination. Finally, the proposal contains amendments to the Violation Act and the Criminal Code. The law on non-conventional offences, such as natural procedures, points to the infringement law. On this basis, those who fail to comply with their obligation to provide information will in the future commit an infringement. A major change, in my view, is an amendment to the Criminal Code, which is complemented by a whole new reality in the proposal. That's the fact that it's a forgery of pharmaceuticals. The facts are for compliance with European Union law, and, as I mentioned in the introduction, this is certainly to be praised. The conduct of criminal offences is the forgery of the medicinal product or the veterinary medicinal product, or their false manufacture, as well as the placing on the market, trading, import and export to the territory of the country of the medicinal product, the supply, transfer, acquisition, maintenance, import, export and transit of the medicinal product or the veterinary medicinal product, and, finally, the use of the documentation related to the medicinal product or the veterinary medicinal product in a manner other than the original purpose. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The sentence is basically a three-year sentence. I'll tell you the truth, I don't want that, but it's not the competence of the medical government. On the one hand, the qualifying conditions are based on results, i.e. death, serious health degradation, disability, and on the other hand, the content of that preparation constitutes a qualifying condition, so if the conduct of the crime is carried out on a preparation containing psychotropic substances, it also constitutes a classified case of the offence. Thirdly, the proposal regulates, as a qualifying condition for the person of the perpetrator, if the perpetrator is a health worker, a pharmaceutical manufacturer, a pharmaceutical supplier. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Finally, the provision of the proposal which penalises healthcare providers because they are unable to fulfil their obligation to communicate is unacceptable to us. The government should first ensure the necessary personal and material conditions for this before calling for information not to be provided. There is also concern that it does not provide for legislation on the range of diseases in which a national register is operated. It is an interesting fact that the proposal is compensated for by healthcare services for foreign representation workers, because in a year the government has realised that those working abroad in a service relationship have suffered damage due to a law of 2017 and that they have been compensated immediately. Thank you very much for your attention. My fellow Members will look forward to the reflection of the Secretary of State on the problems raised. In the spring session, we welcome the committee. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2018-11-29-78	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre László, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to begin as the others, to wish you a successful, productive and long-term activity for all of us. Obviously, since the speakers before me have said more, I would like to relate to three areas in my comments, which have shaped different opinions. One is a story about homeopathy, where, and so it is, we do not necessarily agree with the one before us or with the opinions of others. If I have to put it briefly, I must say that I fully agree that the fact that information is sufficient includes the 10th point that the Health Act is intended to be supplemented by at the moment. In order to be clear, let me say that the recent scientific debates on homeopathic preparations have not taken place in the world in Hungary and not only in Europe. The common feature of the findings was that it was a preparation in which no active substance could be detected. Leading European scientists have now said that homeopathy is scientifically incomprehensible, experimentally unconfirmed, and may even be dangerous, as opposed to the claim of homeopathyists. Official health care in Australia, America, clearly goes against homeopathy, doesn't support it. The Swedish Academy of Sciences was the first in Europe to express its opinion, but the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was also involved in this opinion. Without actively wanting to get involved in the debate that you are in favour of or against, I would like to say one thing, and with all due respect, I would like to ask you to try and correct this: it is a preparation and not a medicine. With regard to medicines, as we know, there are many doctors in this room, there are very strict rules. A molecule, an active substance, many years, can often be placed on the market as a medicinal product after ten years, because it also has to comply with very strict standards from a legal point of view and from a scientific point of view. [[14.00]] I respectfully ask you to delete the concept of medicine in relation to homeopathy and discuss homeopathic preparations in the future. The other is the amendment of the Professional Chambers Act. I cannot say anything new here, and I myself do not agree to abolish it because here the amendment is merely that the last sentence has been deleted, which was that the Chamber member may be elected to the same office no more than two times in a row. By abolishing this, we will allow someone to complete some sort of assignment until the end of time. I can only say that this idea goes against the general principles of democracy. The third subject is again a messy matter, this non-conventional infringement, which I have no problem with, let me add, to the fullest extent I agree, and let me quote to the Minister of Health, when there was, I think there is now, the Secretary of State's resolution of the Scientific Council on Health, which defined the eligibility of non-conventional procedures as follows:. As long as there are unresolved problems for official medicine, i.e. incurable diseases and unfulfilled needs, until human-centred medicine is fully implemented, and until there is any alternative to formal and effective treatment, the patient's turn towards traditional procedures is understandable and explained. It should be possible to make them available, but only in a controlled and controlled manner. At the same time, it is necessary to put a stop to the hustle of misinformed information that abuses the trust and gullibility of the population and patients, to all dishonest, profiting, demagogic pursuits. The point of what I have to say is that this is like the laws that have been touched, which need to be crushed and updated to our daily lives with this area... I don't want to list it, because I think that we're still here hours from now if I have to quote the areas that are actually about it or have to be spoken about. That was a long time ago when these activities were regulated. Madam Secretary, it's time to knock the dust off of this too, so that they can function in a controlled form that doesn't allow us to see as a doctor often, so that I can begin with the,, healing, and let me put it in a citation to stop the medicine, and then I will detoxify it, and then everything will be fine. Well, it's usually okay, and the relatives can be prepared to say good-bye. That's all I wanted to say to you, and once again, I wish you good luck. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-80	Thank you, Congressman. This concludes the speech of the lead speaker and comes with regular comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-11-29-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I pressed the button because I listened to Lőrinc Nacsa's comment, who is no longer in the room, but he told me that the Canaan has come to Hungarian health care, so since there have been fidesz governments, there is nothing to complain about in Hungarian health care, money is pouring into health care, hospitals are beautiful and building. In fact, it is a pleasure to go to the hospital or to be in the hospital, because this is happening under much better circumstances than ever before, and any statement or criticism of opposition is merely a result of envy and malice that we do not want to acknowledge the great performance of the government. While I say, on the one hand, congratulations on the appointment of the Secretary of State, and I wish that she will remain a secretary of state for more than a few months, because it is certainly impossible and impossible to achieve results in a few months, and I also say that the law itself is a good direction, because data provision can also bring about transparency, patient information and, of course, improvements in the quality of health care, however strange it may sound. However, it can also be seen that there is an observation here that there may not be enough staff, there is not enough resources to do so, so in Hungarian this is a very administrative burden for hospitals, so they cannot carry out this task because there is no money. And just today's news, I think the Secretary of State saw that, according to Eurostat, Hungary spends EUR 853 per head on health care, there are only five countries in the European Union, and in all other countries more money is spent per capita on health than in Hungary. Now, I think that government propaganda is very good, but it is okay to have self-reflection sometimes, so it is okay to practice self-criticism, or perhaps Lőrinc Nacsa listens to the Prime Minister's words, because he once said that self-gratification is stinky; it stinks even if it is not self-gratitude, because in many cases what they claim is not true. You've taken an enormous amount of money out of health care since 2010, and you're trying to make up for it now, because you can see the whole system is collapsing. On a daily basis, there are news, not one, but more, about the chaos, the tragic situation in Hungarian health care. And that doesn't mean that they haven't bought new equipment to some hospital, that they haven't blinded the hospital or fixed it. Most of all, these are from European Union funds, from the sources of the Union that you are telling us about how he treats Hungary in a depraved way; so in Hungarian, they are not renovated primarily from their own resources, but from European Union sources. However, perhaps today, yesterday's news that there is another scandal at the Honvéd Hospital, they cannot decide whether or not the preterm class will be closed now. But I can also say your lips hospital, last time we had news about the trauma, not only at the Honvéd Hospital, but also in many other hospitals, every news report about the lack of people, the lack of doctors, the lack of assistance, the lack of resources to fund the assets. Every year, the debt of hospitals has to be consolidated by tens of billions of HUF. For example, we have repeatedly suggested that this should be included in the budget at the time, since each year we know that at the end of the year we will have to give the extra money, so why can it not be planned for the budget at the beginning of the year? In Hungarian: a number of news shows that Hungarian health care is not working properly, there are serious problems in health care, and behind every second news is that there is not enough money in Hungarian health care. So I would therefore suggest that we stand with a little more modesty when talking about health care. He also mentioned Schöpf-Merei Hospital and some other hospitals, Nacsa Lawrence, that we closed it down. I ask you, did you re-open it? Which hospital was reopened? The hospital was renovated from an EU source, and now it's going to be shut down soon. So the Fidesz Members here are talking about these decisions as if they had already solved them and restored the operation of the hospital. I understand I'd like to pass on the responsibility somewhere, but now after more than eight years of government, it's hard. Or, as we have also talked about the situation of GP practices, 200-300 GP practices are unfilled, or dentist practices, where there are similar problems. Last time I asked the Secretary of State a question in writing about dental practices, I got an answer. Then I was approached by the various advocacy organizations of dentists, and they told me in detail how they expressed inaccuracies, how they didn't, how lies you gave me in response to this question. I now confess honestly that if I have to choose between a member of the Fidesz government lying or a civilian sector, I, as an opposition representative, think that you are lying rather than civilians, so I am forced to bomb you with new questions; as I have now asked you to give me an exact breakdown of the hospital's debt, because I do not know whether you know, Madam State Secretary, for example, at the request of local government representatives, that hospitals do not give out, at the request of local government representatives, how much debt, overdue debt, debt to the hospital in question, which is why they are obliged to turn to the Members of Parliament to have any information about it. [[14.10]] So, overall, a little more modesty in terms of health would perhaps be appropriate here to speak out on the part of government contributions. Indeed, everyone in Hungary thinks that even the Fidesz voters are a significant part of the fact that health care is in trouble today in Hungary. And I also do not dispute that this has been in trouble in the past, and it may be with other types of problems, and probably this problem has been rolled before Hungary for a very long time. But what I'm looking at is that you've begun to shift the health system towards private health. They believe that there is a significant demand for health services, a good life for businesses, and public health. This remains for the care of the poor, and anyone who wants quality health care will buy it for himself. This fits exactly in the philosophy of society that you represent, that you support and represent the privileged few against the majority, but we do not agree ideologically, either on the basis of values. We think that we need health care that even those who choose private health care should go to a public hospital, public health, because they receive a quality service that makes it pointless to spend on private health care. They deny the existence of waiting lists and much more; and I think that these issues should be raised above party policy. There are some issues that can be handled well in the long term, for the sake of the Hungarian people, if we do not make them the subject of party politics. But if it's about the story that we're not looking for a solution to the problem together, but where we're pointing back and where we're not, then I don't think we're gonna find it. If this continues to be such a battle in your crossfire, it will be very difficult to find a good solution. Not just this government, any government. So what I hope is that perhaps by having a new leadership of the health government, we can make it a national minimum, where they believe that we are not criticizing because we want to get involved in the living tree, we have plenty of other options, but we simply see and hear from our own constituents, many of us who contact us at various events, that they tell different horror stories about what happened to them, how it happened to them. So the picture is that there is a problem in this area, there is a lack of resources in this area, and there is a certain waste, because this has always been the case in the health sphere. So, overall, I would ask the Secretary of State to seek consensus on the parties. Of course, I know that there are limitations in many cases, because there are differences from different world views that are very difficult to bridge, but in the area of health, such an approach would certainly be necessary. For our part, we would be partners, and if we received fewer attacks, we too would be able to respond less party-politically to a particular question. And once again, just so you don't talk about the front of the house, I don't dispute that health care has had a lot of problems before, even during socialist governments, and I don't even dispute that a lot of questions have been solved badly by that government. I would just like to say that saying that it has gone wrong does not lead to a solution that is positive for citizens in the future. So if we have to, then let's go beyond that: yes, a lot of things were spoiled then, I would add, a lot of things have been ruined now, and then let's find out together how this could be made to everyone's satisfaction, to the satisfaction of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-29-82	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2018-11-29-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Well, you are not in a simple situation, and for the first time here you are listening to a wave of opposition complaints about the system in which you worked, because as a pulmonologist you had an insight into the state of health, and you are aware that, at the moment, the Hungarian health care system, whether it is the pulmonology or intensive therapy, is in what situation you are in, and how miserable your fate is. And from this miserable fate, from this crisis that you have suffered, you're trying to be impossible right now, but I think that with a pure heart, you're removing this health care to create something better. I'm in a privileged position. I'm from Veszprém County. As Veszprém County Representative, we have two pulmonary institutions that I think are national. The first is the hospital in Tapolca, which is my heart, there is a lung rehab, and there is the pulmonary hospital in the wolf's lawn, which Dr. Balázs Medgyassay has been leading for decades now, but is excellent. I think that you should look after these two hospitals, if I may, and put them on a hospital in your lips, Madam Secretary of State, and help the institution in distress out of this little pothole. It's about the bill you've been telling me, and it's true for almost every single salad law that it contains a lot of things that are even eligible for opposition. There are the key things in the salad law that they try to infiltrate politically or through some kind of lobbying activity, and that's what they're trying to push through this system, through this filtration system. Many salad laws have also been supported by the opposition, and must be added, so not to look at the opposition as a current evil, but to think of us as a partner with whom it is worth sitting, to discuss the bottlenecks which are even very difficult to bear politically. My fellow Members have said here in their speeches what are the border crossings that I think are above political parties and party spirit, and this is the first health care, and we have very often stressed that we should try to have a multi-party consultation, and in this I would like to ask Mrs Secretary of State for her help in the first instance, to highlight the health itself from the swamp of politics. If praises can be given from the government's side, then we have the opportunity, especially to those who have worked in this system for decades, to say the shortcomings that have not been made in the socialist system, but are not in the current system, only at the level of communication. A round table discussion or the possibility of a round table thinking should arise either as Secretary of State or as a minister, at ministerial level, which would serve the purpose of making this health system better. This is the essence of every political party, and if this is done, it will be useful to the people for whom we are here in Parliament, for whom you have just spoken on behalf of the salad law, and I think that there is much that is eligible. The regulation on the EEST, so that the National Blood Service uploads the data on the blood type that could require a faster process in emergency care, I think this is very necessary. In addition, this EEST may be dissolved if necessary if the data uploaded by the OVSZ is not available, each doctor has the opportunity to find the blood groups. And here's the question: the blood types that were defined 15 years ago, but the patient was already receiving a blood transfusion, are also referring to phenotypic identity, or are they doing the blood type determination next to the sickbed, and if it turns out that his blood type has been infected since then, and only phenotypic-specific blood... what then? Is this gonna be reloaded, or is this gonna be legally regulated? Because if they upload the blood type, they'll see the doctor there, and they won't send it down to the local blood supply to filter this blood for antibodies, they might not even be exposed to this antibody, and we'll infect it with another antibody. We'll be in a much more difficult position to find even more difficult, phenotypic-specific blood, don't give it to me, we'll have to give him washed blood in the near future. I think it would be worth examining this from a medical point of view and adapting the legislation to this, but the effort itself is absolutely good. Homeopathic supplements or medicines or chemicals. That's what I've noticed, and now, Madam Secretary, don't think I'm for homeopathy, but I'm not against it. Regulation and coordination of the two, I think, is the key to the solution. I think that we shouldn't shoot at elephants or mice with cannons, so we shouldn't try to treat everything with antibiotics, but the drugs that are in force at the moment and are being used by the medical community should be used for the diseases prescribed by the medicine and as they are taught at school. [[14.20]] But I think and now I'm going back to pulmonology, the best homeopathic and alternative cure in Tapolca is the air of the healing cave, or salt humidification in the treatment of asthma, or, say, in Transylvania, the parayd salt cave has a therapeutic effect, which is an alternative cure, almost to homeopathy. However, homeopathic agents that have been proven to contain derivatives that may be harmful to health, for example, and here I take out the strongest one, the most feared example that is called opium, which can be obtained as a homeopathic preparation, no matter what description they give to it, counts as Btk., no matter how much it uses it. 'Cause even if they give out that box of opium, I won't tell you his homeopathic name, and the distributor or homeopathic professional tells him to take one bullet a day, if a young man who's a drug user or a psychoactive substance doesn't stop at one ball and takes four or five for forgiveness for the term, and it's gonna be just as humiliating as after smoking a pot cigarette, it's dangerous. However, if I were to consider it a homeopathic preparation, as Congressman László said, because it is not an active substance-containing medicine, although it is sometimes effective, if there are some forms of education that deal with these substances, it may be necessary to take it seriously, and for you to shift this law or this legislation for six months and sit down with these organizations, so that they can say their opinion, because now they see that there is a witch hunt against them. But now I'm going to get to the other thing that this law wants to regulate, and psychoactive agents are being treated with a pretty nice hand by the government. Extending the ban list: it is important to know that every six months the council will meet in New York and Vienna, and then they will be added to the list, and it will be placed before the Hungarian Parliament in six months to make it a no-list. I think that there is no Member in this Parliament who disagrees with the Council decision, because we are not professionals to override the substances they want to list, we have no qualifications, so we cannot do anything other than introduce a list of substances they accept. That is why I have also tried to apologize in the debate on psychoactive substances for having to say this to the Secretary of State for answers to questions that could speed up this process, and it may be Madam Secretary of State who could be a spokesperson for these requests, for example at ministerial level. I mean, it's already been asked by professionals. It is completely unnecessary to bring such a decision before the Parliament, which can be regulated in a ministerial decree. I think, once again, I hope that there is no other Member of Parliament who would not vote for the inclusion of psychoactive substances on the illicit list of drugs or for the banning of psychoactive substances. I therefore believe that it can be regulated at the level of a ministerial decree. Therefore, in the salad law before us, psychoactive substances would be regulated in the Btk. by harmonising the lists of P1 and P4. There are very dangerous substances. In P1, for example, Mephedrone and Mescaline, in P2, Amphotamyn derivatives, Ketamine, which is known as Calypsol and Ketalar in anaesthesiology. In P3, barbiturate derivatives and in P4 those that can be prescribed for a medical prescription, i.e. Diazepam and Midazolam derivatives. This is Seduxen and Dormicum, which, by drinking alcohol, can also cause a mind-altering effect that could force manslaughter. These are Btk.'s harmonisation is a step, but requests, whether made from the mouth of professionals, during an interview, or here in Parliament during an mediation procedure, a Member of Parliament tried to direct requests to the State Secretary of the Parliament that could make this system better, and these include, for example, the purchase, development and procurement of equipment for the purpose of putting these psychoactive substances on a list of bans as soon as possible... we must admit and admit that unfortunately we cannot compete with the creators at the moment. We can place great emphasis on prevention, the preparation and care of parents, so that they don't press their smartphones. I think I've said all the important things I wanted to say. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider the comments and requests made here. I think that every single request was aimed at improving intent. I consider Mrs Secretary of State's first speech to be constructive, which is how we will deal with it. But I do not wish you three months of professional years as Secretary of State. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-29-84	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on what's been said. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Secretary Ildikó Horváth to respond to what has been said.
u2018-11-29-85	Mr President, Honourable Members, Thank you very much for your comments. I tried to take notes. Many good thoughts have been said, thank you very much. We will consider, and let me answer, let me return in the order in which the comments were made. Thank you very much, Agnes Molnár, on behalf of Fidesz, for confirming the points that I have tried to explain and explain in our legislative proposals. It is very important for us to understand these amendments in a uniform way. It was mentioned in another comment on the level at which they were agreed. I came in in mid-October, but these ideas and these amendments were there before, and a work had already started on this. That's why it's a team's job to get there now that we're having this conversation in Parliament. We've been in it ever since I worked with the team to get the things that are most urgent in terms of making operational regulation simpler and more transparent and better served. On the part of László Lukács, it came to the idea of using the indigo to do the work. This package is not here because so much work has been done. We feel that much more work is needed when we think that we are trying to believe that the 21st century is the case. We are trying to define the technical possibilities and human, moral and professional challenges of the 20th century in the healthcare system and we are trying to stimulate and activate an effective health system that is more effective than it is at present. I think that we are not quite there, like when we said in 2010 that we should resuscitate it and look for a long list of topics that are free and what we need to talk about together, but a number of topics over several years, well discussed at several points, have come to the point of changing it and changing the world around us. There are forces moving to say that a million professionals will be missing from European health care in the coming years. A million people is a lot. It is also quite clear that Western countries are clearly trying to fill the gap from where they see it as the easiest: this is our region. It is no coincidence that in the V4 we took a stand with the surrounding countries, sought to join forces, so that we could keep at home the professionals we trained in the healthcare system, where there is an estimate of how many professionals should be trained to replace the place of those who retire, die, and those who go abroad. For me, it is a great pleasure to have received the numbers in the last year and now, in fact, fewer than 300 colleagues have gone abroad, compared with the fact that in 2010 it was around 600. So whatever happened, small steps or big steps, slowed down the sucking-off leg leading our colleagues to the West. [[14.30]] I would really hope that as many people as possible would go to the West as they used to. They're going to study to bring those skills home. I was very happy to welcome those meetings when my colleagues working abroad tell me that they are now thinking that the five-year contract will expire right now in Florida, an excellent colleague from a stroke supplier, and they would now be looking for a job at home. There is a very faint hope that well-trained professionals who have spent 510 years abroad will come back into the system, and if we pay due attention to the package we are trying to recall, I trust that we will succeed in doing so to a tangible extent and in a tangible form. I was very happy to invite you to spring debate, and when I'm here, I'd be very happy to come. Indeed, there is a change and change, not the eighth in eight years, here wrongly said Member, I am the fifth Secretary of State in eight years, for the first four years, for the last four months, I am over four weeks. So we'll see how it goes. Thank you for your support in calling for me, Member. I am trying to represent the kind of values and seek the kind of consensus that the debate, opinion and political support of the Non-Smoker Act give me a great deal of strength, which, I think, would have had 85 percent of all the voters behind it. We can therefore believe that health and health protection are more valuable than any kind of political debate. If we can think together in this spirit, I am very, very happy to be a partner in this. There were comments in Mr Luke's opinion on the social debate that there was no discussion. Several different levels of consultation have been carried out on these proposals. I was pleased to hear that MEPs from both the opposition and the Fidesz-KDNP side supported most of the proposals. I think it is important and I agree that the emergency and general medical emergency systems have changed their situation. It is no coincidence that we have proposed an amendment of legislation and government regulations. Our very strong vision is, and this is now incorporated into the principle of emergency care, that although we do not need to write minutes and hours in legislation, we need to put this in the documents on the pursuit of the profession, which means that we can definitely state not only the immediateness with which the start of care is important, but also the point where it needs to be completed. This is something that can be created, and this expectation can be supported financially. We thank you for this constructive proposal, and there is now a list that we think we will achieve a goal for such a transformation. The ESZT: we are told by GDPR experts that the operation of the Hungarian ESZT system corresponds to GDPR. However, we know that there are several examples in Europe of the fact that law firms have made the application of GDPR a business in health care and are trying to enforce huge spaces in different institutions. We try to learn from the example of the Germans, we try to learn from the example of countries where they already have experience in what side of GDPR-oriented criticism, right or wrong; and whatever non-compliance there is, this is further clarified. So if Mr Luke has a specific proposal for this, I would like to thank him very much. We're working on it, we have to keep up with GDPR. Surprisingly, Hungarian legislation is quite good at this, and we had to adapt it less than many countries do. Homeopathy. I saw a patient die of copper poisoning on homeopathic medication. It is not copper-containing as an active substance, which should in principle be in untouchable quantities; it was present as a vehicle in quantities that could be killed. So I have a strong criticism, in any case, of products that do not go through adequate safety, proper control. I understand our proposal to amend the law by providing a guarantee of this, i.e. a quality guarantee for patients, and meeting European expectations. Of course, we know there's a placebo effect. You don't need the active substance, you need the small active substance. But there are 5-10-15 percent of the effect achieved, including trust in the doctor. The placebo effect and other effects of trust in a doctor cannot be burdened with finding out something that is absolutely against the patient's interest in using a harmless product. I could give you a number of examples from oncology, where such products go on for years, and then it turns out that not only is it not working, but also the chance of effective therapy is gone. If you have a proposal on how to do this more precisely, that we regulate differently in the framework of infringements, with which we achieve the goal, we will be very happy to study it, we will consider it. Chamber. I think, yes, democratic bodies should be democratic. If we control something from the outside, frame something, I don't think it means democracy, perhaps more difficult. I think that if the various chambers in the technical department do not have such a bond, then this does not need to be applied either to the pharmacy or to the medical chambers or to the MESZK. So in this respect, it is to harmonise legislation on chambers: let them exercise their own democracy. I would like to ask for your support for this, which is what it says in the legislative amendment. With regard to designer drugs, we're happy to look at coherence again, the Btk. its closed coherence as to how effective it is. The goal was clear, to enforce aspects that are serious aspects of drug abuse. Congressman Nacsa, if he is not here, I am grateful to him that, in any case, he has registered that the money did fall, there has been a very large amount of money in the last eight years. There is a very significant change in infrastructure. If you live in the country and go to rural hospitals, you can see that. The fact that nurses make twice as much today as they did eight years ago, two and a half times as many doctors, about these averages, is a very significant result. I think it is important that, when there was a very serious economic crisis between 10 and 12 across Europe and around the world, and in Greece, the masses of patients were left unequipped, the health care system in Hungary was able to experience this very difficult period without having to do so. We have been able to guarantee a wide reach of medicines and health care systems. There has been no reduction of any care system to the extent that the patient's sense of safety or the patient's ability to respond to medication and care has been disturbed. It was a very important job, a lot of people were partners in this. So I would like to thank all the parties, regardless of their position, who helped me to do so at the time. This is how we served the people of the country. You can see the results. If we look at the same Eurostat, which has now been mentioned, how much we spend on health, we can also see that the years of health have increased in Hungary over the last eight years. There is a significant increase, but if I look at it for the last ten years, this rise can still be measured very nicely. So it's not just how much money we spend, it's how effectively and how we spend it. So I can respond to the suggestion of Attila Mesterházy that the world believes that if every dollar placed in the American health care system is a kind of money throwing out the window, then let us consider that every single forint placed in Hungarian health care should bring 2 forints from the point of view of the national economy, human health and demographic revolution. If you have a proposal on how to operate this more effectively than an investment, I will be willing to consider it. We are very pleased to be able to work together on this. I agree with Dr. László, let's not call it medicine that isn't medicine. Call it preparation, substance, whatever it is, I agree with it. Thank you very much for making your position and opinion on homeopathy so clear. I am referring to a specific legislation concerning non-conventional procedures, which is indeed sufficiently dusty. We've already started a huge debate once, and somehow we have, but the time has come for this regulation to be rewritten, I agree. Let's do it again. Congressman Korózs' number eight was a mistake, counting the secretary of state, perhaps irrelevant. The lack of communication about how this is a confession from hospitals and how statistics go: unfortunately, worldwide, data services that have consequences are taken very seriously. So it is common to the funder that the various supply institutions are very precise or more precise than when there is a need for public health statistics or a summary of them. [[14.40]] In this Hungary, as critical as we look at ourselves, looks rather good on the international stage. The operation of TB Surveillance, for example, the Hungarian sample, is now taught worldwide, simply because we use the data in such a valid and accurate way that there is a demonstrable, measurable health gain in the supply system. That's what the WHO is teaching you. I think that in order to operate validated, pro-active surveillance systems for the benefit of the patient, we really need more work, commitment and commitment to bring in people working and serving in the system, this is not a question of lack of people. The ESZT will help us to do this, it will automatically provide us with data, facilitate the work of reporting agents, and in this it will be possible to incorporate the automatics that could otherwise make the heart attack registry a quality leap when it received data from funding for data validation. If we don't take action, you'll be sucking away the power, the man, the patient. People vote with their feet, that's what a medical colleague here told one of the newspapers, and he wanted to tell me that everyone here was walking into your privates. We looked at the data: what is seen from private care is very harshly, indeed, people vote with their feet: 95 percent vote by using public services, public care, the rest goes into private. They may be able to bring data, that it's different, I'd be happy to look at it, it's the best nearing data I could get. This has a number of data problems, so anyone who speaks to a private health service provider should help us to ask them, recommend that they also have a reporting obligation to the ESP since November, make use of the option and comply with their obligations, see the data clearly as to what is what. But the foot vote, if something happens at some point by 95 percent, I think that in any political vote, it would be a huge majority. In Hungary, people vote in this way, using public services in a very large proportion. They have a problem with him, they have a problem with him. Everyone has a big problem, and they have a huge vulnerability when they get sick or when they're sick. We will work and work very hard to ensure that this sense of security and the kind of hand holding the patient, so that he knows more precisely than we do now, when, where, what kind of care he receives, and when, where, where to go, we will make it more effective than it is now. There are several pilot programs in this, we can say several committed hospital directors who have been able to create this in their own institution, in their own field of expertise. I very much hope that in the spring we can talk about the fact that, at the organizational level, at national level, these are really beginning to look like steps taken, that it was really possible to move from the current situation to the next. The current situation is not so bad; and, yes, people vote when they choose whether their oncological care, which is, say, 10 million forints a year, is used. We didn't see much of a patient trying to take this treatment in private. In rare diseases, where the price of a year's treatment is a Porsche, let me give you this example of cystic fibrosis, I do not really see that people who want to use this kind of care and that private suppliers would like to provide this kind of service. I am convinced that our obligation, our statutory obligation, is to maintain, strengthen and expand the framework of basic care in every step by providing all Hungarians with the best and safe possible state of the art care. It's a pay raise. It is a mistake or a fib, whatever it is that they earn by magnitude in Romania; it varies how much they earn. Indeed, a very significant one-off wage increase recently took place in Romania, much later than the Hungarian wage increase programme started, and indeed, there is a much more starved system in Romania, where it was very necessary to keep their own doctors in the country. We're going to look at the information law. Thank you very much for the reference to the information law to whether we can go to the level of the ministerial decree to clarify certain groups of diseases. If it is necessary to state by law, we can tell you what diseases of public health we propose to regulate in order to improve the results of healing. I have not written down exactly what Mr Korózs asked me about the information regarding the patrons' comments. I'd be very happy to answer if you'd be more specific. Finally, hospital debt. We agree, I think, widely, within governments, between ministries, it seems to me, perhaps also between parties, that it is not debt to be dealt with, but to use a financing technique that works predictablely. This type of financing technique, in order to compensate for the deficit that could otherwise be estimated over the course of the year, and which has happened in the last eight years with roughly the same amount, is not considered to be a good instrument. There is indeed a design work to be done on how to use this tool differently, how to spend this money in health care differently so that inpatient suppliers move towards predictability. Thank you very much, many people have said that we should put health and health policies above party policy. Yeah, for my part, I'm totally a partner in this, and we're very happy to work this way. Tapolca, Wolverine, Veszprém County is of course important to me. Excellent professional workshop with Wolverine and very nice traditions for Tapolca. I used to work with Tibor Horváth when we took children with asthma to the camp in Recsk. We didn't have these asthma medicines at the time, faith and physical work did a lot to make it a successful program. I said the round table, yes; and you are right that blood type definition is not everything. You have to go, of course, and you have to take measurements according to medical protocols to make the doctor feel safe, but at least there's a clue. Psychoactive drugs. I agree with him, if we can resolve the fact that we are doing it in a ministerial regulation, then we can go faster after EU regulation and these various regulatory materials, and then we will not have to wait for the next legislative cycle to do this. Now it is simply the timetable of this legislative cycle that we have been forced to do so now. Thank you very much for your comments, thank you very much for expressing your willingness to cooperate and for your support. We are working and I am open to doing things together and doing more for the health of the population. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-86	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. There is a general debate on the proposal to announce the agreement between Hungary and the People's Republic of China on the promotion of the Hungarian higher education activities of the University of Fudan. The government referral is T/3605. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2018-11-29-87	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill concerns the publication and recognition of the legally binding scope of the agreement providing the legal basis for the operation of the University of Fudan as a higher education institution registered in the People's Republic of China in Hungary. I am convinced that the usefulness of this agreement, its positive impact on the opportunities of Hungarian students and on Hungarian competitiveness, is indisputable to all of us. China is one of the leading global players in the present and future. Hungary has seen the People's Republic of China as a key and strategic partner. China turns to Hungary with appreciation and interest, and on several occasions the parties have indicated their commitment to becoming a strategic partner in China in the Central and Eastern European region. This mutual conviction is demonstrated by the fact that a number of projects, initiatives have been launched and are working successfully in all areas of our relations and at all levels of our cooperation. This process is part of our cooperation in the sharing and exchange of knowledge and good practices in education and science. Student mobility is very lively between our countries, and there is a growing need for better knowledge and joint projects among students and academics from both sides. The adoption of the bill adds another valuable joint project to the results of international cooperation, as the agreement provides an opportunity for Hungarian and Chinese higher education to work more closely in areas that provide direct benefits to our countries. [[14.50]] Moreover, the Chinese player of the cooperation is no smaller than one of China's most prestigious universities, the Shanghai-based Fudan University. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education. In the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and outside the European Economic Area and wishing to pursue educational activities in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Home State to support operations in Hungary in principle. As Fudan University intends to conduct training activities in Hungary, we initiated an agreement with the Chinese party in accordance with the current regulations. The Agreement was signed in Shanghai on 12 November 2018. Accordingly, in the agreement contained in the bill, the parties define the conditions for the operation of Fudan University in Hungary and express their support in principle to facilitate the operation of the Chinese institution in Hungary. The agreement lays down, in relation to the University of Fudan, the conditions for legal status, activity, legislation and provisions applied by the parties, the validity of the agreement and the bodies responsible for implementation. On the Hungarian side, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is the body designated as responsible for the implementation. The agreement therefore provides for an opportunity to open up the educational activity in Hungary and to extend it on demand. Dear Parliament, The promotion of the education activities of the University of Fudan in Hungary is in line with the interests of Hungary and the government objectives of increasing the international weight of our country. The presence of the institution in Hungary facilitates the international experience of Hungarian students and contributes to the better international embedment of Hungarian higher education and scientific life. All of this will help to deepen education, science and economic relations in the long term, confirming that Hungary is China's strategic partner in the Central European region. I am therefore convinced that the agreement is in the best interests of our country in all these aspects. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/3605. Adopt the proposed legislation and support the publication of the agreement between Hungary and the People's Republic of China on support for the Hungarian higher education activities of the University of Fudan, signed on 12 November 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-11-29-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-29-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed legislation is one of the building blocks of our ongoing development of relations with the world's emerging power, China, and the Eastern opening policy. This slow construction is a long-term investment that our children will benefit most from in a world that will inevitably transform. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán indicated our intention to further develop higher education cooperation between China and Hungary in Beijing in 2017. The establishment of a Chinese university in Hungary was already mentioned, and the same year there was a summit of prime ministers from China and Central and Eastern European countries. Here a declaration of intent was established between the Hungarian National Bank, the Corvinus University of Budapest and the Fudan University of Shanghai, which envisaged the launch of an MBA double degree, i.e. a Hungarian-Chinese business degree. The basis for this training was laid in 2018 in the framework of a new declaration of intent, according to which the training would start in February 19 already. The final agreement was signed between Hungary and the People's Republic of China in Shanghai in 2018. The Fudan University, established in 1905, is one of the three best universities in China, and it also occupies a remarkable place at international level. According to the ranking of Times Higher Education Ranking, it is currently registered as the 105th University of the World. This law is necessary because, in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union or outside the European Economic Area and pursuing educational activities in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the government of that home state to support operations in Hungary in principle. Similar agreements have been announced before, including in the cases of Notre Dame University, McDaniel College or Chinese University of Heilongjiang. This agreement establishes the conditions, legal status, activities, applicable laws and regulations for the operation of the University of Fudan in Hungary. For his part, Fidesz supports the bill. I would ask my fellow Members to support you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-11-29-90	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-29-91	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, Jobbik is also in favour of this bill, and it would be difficult to dispute the advantages of an international agreement between two higher education institutions. These really have advantages, they are forward-looking, but this is why the international relationship system of the Corvinus University of Budapest, as well as new researchers, academic staff and teaching contacts can be developed, so that students and teachers of Corvinus University can become acquainted with educational methods that would otherwise not be possible. It is therefore clear that it must be supported. I wouldn't even like to drag it out for long, but as a parentheses comment, I can't say that this is happening in the days when there is a serious political debate about the CEU's failure to reach this interstate agreement, but other universities succeed. One can do it, the other can't do it, you can joke about it, but it's a serious problem. However, I do not want to open this debate, not even because we know very well that this is not a professional debate, but a political debate on the CEU. We do not want to give an opinion on the specific institution, but we condemn the kind of government intention in itself when they judge higher education institutions from the political will's point of view, and as a result they take steps that may even make an institution impossible. We do not think this is good, but once again, this is not the debate I would like to have within this item on the agenda, but because of the timing, this cannot be missed. In summary, we therefore support this proposal, we consider it to be forward-looking, and we hope that as much as possible will be similar in relation to higher education institutions in Hungary, and thus our higher education will develop in the right direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-29-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-29-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the bill before us is about an international agreement between Hungary and the Republic of China, gives an excellent university the right to operate in principle, and, as explained by the law, this is necessary in accordance with the Higher Education Act, since if a university is established outside the European Union or outside the European Economic Area and intends to pursue educational activities in Hungary, then obviously, the Government of Hungary must provide operational support in principle in order to conclude such an international contract. It has already been said that the above provision concerns eight of these higher education institutions in four states, one in Malaysia, one in Thailand, two in China, in this case Fudan University, and four with the University of the United States of America, a higher education institution. [[15.00]] Of course, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party can fully support any agreement between Hungary and foreign educational institutions, whether it is the exchange of students, teachers, the organisation of scientific conferences, the organisation of scientific cooperations or the creation of other forms of training, and, of course, we can also support the agreement before us with the University of Fudan. I think it is a huge thing that one of the three largest universities in China, the Fudan University, cooperates with a higher education institution in Hungary. It is of particular importance to me that this university is also based in Shanghai, and my constituency, Szeged, has a twin city relationship with Shanghai. By the way, the university covers all disciplines, 69 institutions offer 73 basic and 201 master's programmes for students, 77 research institutes, and is particularly important in the field of physics, medicine and social science. As my fellow Member has said, I would like to be allowed to say that I, too, have a sense of absence. If, by the way, any cooperation with higher education universities can now be concluded by my fellow members of the Government only in the context of an international agreement, then I also note that I have a feeling that I am lacking in why there is no other agreement here, the agreement with the CEU before us. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: I can tell you why.]] You could have told me, my fellow Member, and you could have told me, but you didn't tell me why you didn't have an agreement with CEU. In the past, in the case of such agreements, there was no need to conclude an international agreement between Hungarian and foreign higher education institutions, which, by the way, was subject to the responsibility of the two institutions, and only the national educational office could be involved in these matters. It is very visible and stands out that these international agreements on higher education institutions, so that anyone can operate here in Hungary, are clearly due to political reasons. I understand that the relationship between Hungary and the United States of America, compared to the pre-2010 situation, has been significantly reduced in these bilateral relations. We have seen what has happened here at the ban scandal, or I remember what György Matolcsy was seeing here, what an American coup is happening here in Hungary, but we could still list the recall of Réka Szemerkényi. CEU is a victim of this story. You know that we are talking about an excellent university with international news, and I think that CEU has done everything that you have required it to do in order to be able to operate in Hungary. I think it is a sin against Hungary, if, by the way, the CEU is moving away, and you know it, you see it, you are floating this story, because the CEU has announced that if this agreement is not concluded by early December, it will leave Hungary, and I think that you cannot afford to allow it. Regardless of what American diplomacy and Hungarian diplomacy think, American diplomacy does not think that if someone is not friendly with György Soros, such as President Trump, because they are probably not having dinner together, otherwise, if we attack CEU, then we will be in good company with President Trump. This is not how it works in American diplomacy, American diplomacy treats CEU as an American case, and whoever attacks CEU is actually attacking America. So I respectfully ask you to reconsider, and I sincerely and respectfully expect this agreement to be reached as soon as possible, which we must conclude with the CEU. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-94	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán in two minutes.
u2018-11-29-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Here, I expected from my fellow opposition Members that CEU would be mentioned here. Right away, the right-hand comment was about to get into the mainstream. My colleague Szabó started well. So you've told me so well why we're making such an agreement with Fudan University. Because it was founded in 1905, because it is among the three best universities, because it has training in all majors in China, Shanghai. We would be happy if CEU could do the same. CEU had no previous training in the United States. Now they're throwing some kind of school party to see if it's something that doesn't give you college training, but some kind of paper, so it doesn't really fit. I wouldn't think the CEU would move out of here. We're talking about two separate things here. There is a Central European University in Budapest registered in English CEU, and there is a CEU from America. And when you said how well inter-university agreements worked here, the CEU agreed with itself. [[Sándor Szabó: Not quite.]] Yeah. Central European University in Hungary and CEU New York agreed and two degrees were awarded. That is precisely why we have made this law, and we want cooperation like this. When two degrees are awarded between a prestigious Chinese or whatever, or an American university and a prestigious Hungarian university that both meet both countries, and there is knowledge and experience behind it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-96	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-29-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because my fellow Member Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has broadly said what I wanted to say, and thank you very much for the supporting contributions from both the three groups, although I regret that my fellow opposition Members have dealt more with the Soros University than with this agreement and the Fudan University, with this cooperation, which can really be very useful for both Hungary and China. But in order to strengthen what my fellow Member Zsolt Csenger-Zalán said, I would also like to say figures as to why this cooperation makes sense and why we expect someone to show some kind of home institution in connection with the Soros University, i.e. in the USA, where the Soros University is not necessarily characterised by such quality and extensive training both in its content and in its area size, but to present at least some basic training in the USA. What we do not succeed is that we know that a tree house is the only place where there is training; whether training is taking place is another question. But let's look at the training at Fudan University. As has been said, more than 100 years old, 69 institutions offer 73 basic and 201 master's programmes for students. The institution is among the three largest universities in China, with 29 thousand students, and this university is also one of the largest research universities in China, among its 77 research institutes, primarily, as you said, physical, medical and social workshops operate. So there is a very serious background, a very serious base, based on the fact that the diploma that is being issued is actually filled with content and knowledge, so I will ask for your support when the vote takes place, to support this agreement and cooperation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-29-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. general debate on the bill amending laws and other laws until closure. Government referral T/3620. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. [[15.10]]
u2018-11-29-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the important objectives of the government is to make regulatory systems more transparent for all. In the spirit of simplification, the government has reviewed the legislative background of public finances. As a result, it sets out proposals for amendments which simplify the practice of using public funds, without endangering the proper and transparent use of public funds. The bill before you is aimed at achieving this, amending certain provisions of the Public Finance Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please allow me to highlight some of these. The provisions include the intention to cut red tape in order to carry out the transfer of appropriations between budget headings, but only the Minister responsible for public finances needs to be informed instead of asking for prior agreement. Under the proposal, from the body managing the chapter, such as a ministry, the powers to amend appropriations between the various budgetary bodies will be reduced to one lower level. This will allow the decision to be made where its background and practical need is best known, while at the same time enabling the process to be speeded up. According to the amendment, the separate public funds will no longer need a regulation on the management and use of chapter management appropriations. This is aimed at deregulation, since the implementing regulations of the relevant laws contain the detailed rules of the aid instrument in question, so there is no need for further legislation in this case. This will remove two levels of regulation. Since the efficient use of development aid is in several cases hampered by the delay in public procurement procedures and the scarcity of construction capacity, the proposed legislation provides for the possibility, as a new point, of extending the deadline for the use of the budget support to be used by the end of the year following the year in which the aid was granted from the local government's support chapter to local authorities in principle, once, up to a maximum of one year, so that, in some cases, it is not two but three years for the municipalities concerned to complete the aided investment. Further to the proposal before you, a civil society organisation whose administrator or representative body is a mayor may also receive budgetary support. The practical experience shows that in the vast majority of the NGOs, the mayor of the settlement in question is a member of the administration or representative body of the organisation and has a presidential position in smaller settlements. The reason for this is not in the accumulation of positions, but in the confidence in the person of the mayor and in the efficiency of administrative tasks. Therefore, there is no reason why civil society organisations should not receive budgetary support for this. At present, the contribution of the Minister responsible for public finances is also necessary for a minor technical amendment to the statutes of the budgetary bodies, e.g. resulting from legislative changes, which may be an additional burden for the organisation system. The proposal then requires the Minister's agreement only for the reasons for amendment which are closely linked to the general government regulation and which may have budgetary implications. As part of the law governing public finances, it is also necessary to mention the amendment of the law on economic stability in Hungary. According to the proposal, on the one hand, the municipal guarantee or guarantee will be possible to trigger the debt of one hundred percent of municipal companies even if the company cannot guarantee the repayment of either existing or new debt, but the new debt has better conditions than the existing one. In order to relieve the government, the administrative apparatus, and the decision-making forums, it will be sufficient to inform the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance instead of the report to the Government on the prior reporting of debt-generating transactions, if the proposal is accepted by the Honourable Parliament. Dear House, Let me also say a few words about further amendments to the law, other than the law governing public finances, contained in the bill. The bill includes an amendment to the corporate tax and dividend tax law. The corporate tax law provides for an opportunity for companies to account for their negative tax base in previous years, i.e. their so-called set-off losses, in the following years, for the pre-tax profit. The current rules provide for a description of the losses incurred during the fiscal years 2004-2014 at the latest in the tax year 2025. As a result of the bill, the regulation would be amended so that the losses that have been incurred are the last those, s2030. may be used in tax years. The amendment improves the profitability of the undertakings concerned, thereby improving their ability to invest in the future. The amendment also includes a provision relating to the Law on a simplified public liability contribution. This proposal raises the revenue limit of HUF 500 million up to which the professional athlete of the national sports professional association, a sports organisation starting in the first-class competition system of the national sports association, may choose to bear a public burden under the simplified public burden contribution. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the bill aims to set and implement deregulation objectives in principle by increasing the effectiveness of the application of the law, reducing legal uncertainty at times on the part of citizens and reducing bureaucracy in the course of proceedings. The measures proposed in the area of tax policy are in line with the government's budgetary and economic policy objective, supporting sustainable economic growth. Please discuss the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-29-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-11-29-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the Hungarian government has made and made a lot of decisions and laws that have resulted in economic stability, improving employment numbers and keeping the Hungarian budget stable. The country's competitiveness is absolutely necessary to ensure sound financial management in the future. The T/3620 ahead. The package of laws amending the Public Finance Act and other related laws serves the same purpose. In the case of corporation tax, this is the 1996 LXXXI. contains an amendment to the Act. Competitiveness amendments will be made to enable companies and companies to decide how many years, in what proportion and in what way they can account for losses that have been incurred before 2015. There are no five tax-annual limits or, in the case of reorganisations, a proportionality indicator of the associated use-income does not count. This date will be postponed to 2030. 2030 allows these companies to set up a business with stable cash flow and economic indicators, both in the past and in the future, with long-term developments. I consider it particularly important for us to amend the law on simplified public burden-sharing contributions. Here the 250 million HUF limit will be increased to 500 million HUF, which can be chosen by first class athletes representing Hungary in world competitions and competitions. This choice is not mandatory, but it is beneficial in any case. We believe that one of the key elements of the future of Hungarian health care is to ensure that as many athletes as possible carry out their sporting activities in the country, thus establishing a healthy generation of the future. The old issue to help Hungary's economic stability is resolved, which is the transformation of the commitment with a repayment obligation for companies owned by the municipalities by 100%. It wasn't possible in the past. In the case of municipalities, the method and method of guarantee were defined. In the event that the payment obligation of the municipal companies established in the past did not allow for the return, the conversion was regulated. The new debt, if it contains a better condition, will be allowed in terms of the future. This also allows for a flexible financial management for municipalities. [[15.20]] The transactions generating the debt were previously subject to reporting. In all cases, the report to be prepared has been submitted to the government. The legislation is now changing, according to the draft, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance are informed about this. Hopefully, the time of decision will be shorter, the procedure. A large package for shortening and speeding up procedures, resulting specifically from the amendment of the Public Finance Act. Here are the main budgetary directions that can influence and make decisions by specifically highlighted organisations, such as ministries, in the future they will be their own decisions. I am thinking of the procedures for amending the statutes of the budgetary bodies. Here the founding of the statutes or of a body and its termination continue to be an obligation to the agreement of the Minister for Public Finance, but the internal amendments are certainly facilitated by this amendment. Instead of agreeing, there is an obligation to provide information where the rules on transfers of appropriations are amended and transfers between chapters can take place specifically with the permission of the Minister for Public Finance. I would also like to highlight the area which includes an extension of the grant clearance by an additional year. In the construction market, the economic situation is such that neither capacity nor opportunities are often not in the construction process. We will certainly help the municipalities by carrying out the procedures. This plus one year allows these improvements to be implemented. I would also like to highlight the often emerging problem of the fact that civil society organisations are definitely supported and supported by the government. In order to facilitate their support, we do not exclude the possibility for the future of the mayor to participate in it, or the mayor to act as its manager or administrator. This will also make it easier for these organisations to operate. Dear House, In order to increase the stability of the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian economy and economic indicators in the future, and to increase the impact of bureaucracy reduction, I would like to ask this House to support this legislative package and to support the government's objectives. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-29-102	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-11-29-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Just a month ago, I made the criticism that tax legislation comes into the salad law several times a year. Not even a month has passed, and here is another salad law, which also concerns tax legislation, in addition to proposing amendments to the Public Finance Act and the Act on Hungary's economic stability. I would like to start with this, as the amendment of the Act on Hungary's economic stability concerns the guarantee and guarantee of the municipalities. In this case, since it is subject to very strict requirements, government authorisation to guarantee or guarantee by the municipalities, in addition, if the company owned by the municipality has a problem that it cannot pay its loan, but can find a better arrangement on the market, and can redeem its existing loan, then the municipality can guarantee and guarantee. I believe that this is a positive change in this legislation. The following is: I would like to highlight one point from the change in the Public Finance Act, which we also value as positive, and this is the confirmation of the civil society organisations as an exception that they will no longer be excluded from the circle of beneficiaries if they are either mayors or other senior officials of this Citizens' Union. They have not been able to make use of such support before, so this is a welcome step forward, as it is important that civil society organisations are strengthened and thus able to make even more use of the funds. I'd like to move on to the corporate tax amendment. In fact, it was possible, until 2025, to use, under the legislation currently in force, the loss margins incurred by the companies that occurred before the tax year 2015 between 2004 and 2014. Indeed, it is a good measure and I believe that the measure to improve competitiveness is that these companies can do so by 2030 under the conditions existing on 31 December 2014. We're hoping they'll live with that. However, we cannot go beyond the fact that both Mr Secretary of State and the Prime Minister of the Government spoke very narrowly about the amendment of the Echo Act, the Law on a simplified public burden-sharing contribution. We are currently talking about the exchange of two words: 500 million forints from 250 million forints. You have to look at the echo law points for what it is. This is the possibility of first-line professional athletes of national sports associations or professional associations that they can now pay up to HUF 250 million after the reduced tax echo, but up to HUF 500 million; so it has doubled. Today, not so long ago, a few hours ago, we were discussing an increase in the care fee here in Parliament. I've calculated that there was less than double, but let's just say from 52,000 to 100,000. So there's a duplication there, too. But it doesn't matter, ladies and gentlemen, because if we calculate that so far the professional athlete has been able to work up to HUF 250 million a year, it means an income of HUF 12.5 million a month, which is 240 times the amount of the care fee currently in force. From now on, it can be worth HUF 500 million, which is HUF 41.66 million, so it can mean a monthly income of almost HUF 42 million for professional athletes, 416 times the home care fee that will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Excuse me, but we need to look at the levels here. And what's particularly problematic is that the Echo pays 15 percent. Well, I beg you, the wage cuts are almost 40 percent. So it is not enough that this limit is raised very much, and more can be left with the facilitation of taxation. I know, because it says here that you have to be in first class, like waterball, handball, but everybody knows it's football. It's for their own good! I'd like to stop here for a second and look at myself very, very much. This increase to HUF 500 million applies to one person. You can also use 41 million 660,000 forints a month with this reduced tax rate. This is just outrageous! Is there an achievement behind it? You always have to put that big question mark here. 'Cause if the stadiums you've spent hundreds of billions of dollars on were fantastically full, I'd say we need people to go to football games. I have to admit, I'm going out, and I really like football. Siófok is in NB II, and I'm always at home games. You know what the system is there? The fact that the team is 17th, as far as I know, and his coach said that until the team gets into 10, you don't have to pay for a ticket. In fact, when we get there, we get the bracelet, and in the end, the football players pay this club. That's the spirit. That's how it's supposed to be! I know, it's NB II. And now you're giving the N.I. Teams this discount. Well, hold it right there. Why double? Yeah, because the home care fee was doubled, and then they double it? Hasn't reduced taxation been enough up to 250 million forints? It's public money! Well, let's not do that. And you can smile because I can see it's very funny. But it's not funny. I trust that we will receive an appropriate answer and not read back the general explanation. Why did you have to double that amount? This is not good for the Hungarian economy, even if they try to say so. You should have left 250 million and taxed it as a normal wage or as an entrepreneurial income. This is the way, and it is not that we give more discounts. If there's a performance behind it, you can think about it, but not yet. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2018-11-29-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-11-29-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to begin my speech immediately by presenting an association. The Protection Sports Association was established in 2005 by employees of the Protection Charity Association and the Wesley János Cleric Training College, as well as by veteran athletes, with the aim of offering socially disadvantaged people the opportunity to play sports. With the establishment of the sports association, people whose financial situation does not allow them to visit sports institutions operating on a market basis will also have the opportunity to play sports. The aim of the association is to achieve the broadest possible range of people in need through its alternative method of assisting sport as a therapeutic tool for improving the mental and physical condition of disadvantaged people. The success experience experienced by sport has a productive effect in strengthening the spirit of struggle and opens the door to broadening the narrowed connection system. The success of disadvantaged people in sport can also help to reduce prejudices towards the poor and the homeless. From here, I would like to congratulate the homeless football team, which won the third place this year at the World Cup for the homeless in Mexico City. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you how much money these football players have received and how much support they have received from the state. [[Lajos Rig: Nothing!]] The budget to get out of this world championship? You know, Mr. Secretary, these people, however, sang the Hungarian Anthem proudly, with their hands at their hearts, and said that they played for the Hungarians and their country, the people who have financial and housing problems, the people you criminalize with a terrible law. And in the meantime, we see that our bot-legged, worthless soccer players can now benefit from a tax advantage that a normal person can't even comprehend. Once again, we are there to bring a law here, and we could support some of its points, and we should support it, and we have been playing it for years, Mr. Secretary of State, and then of course, they will stand up here in two weeks, and they will start shouting that the opposition did not support it, and then stand up, Mr. Tállai State Secretary, as she stood up this week, and she will tell us that Mrs. Bango and that law and that law did not support it, but she will not tell us that you cannot support it because, don't be angry, that you can't do this, a sane person will not vote for it. Yes, today Origo brings as its headline that the Hungarian national team has jumped four places in the world rankings, and we have managed to rise again to 51st place. [[Lajos Rig: Let's see who gets ahead of us.]] It's no coincidence, I suppose, that this news came out today, regardless of the fact that we're not many here on Thursday afternoon, but, Mr. Secretary, explain it to me, regardless of whether I like sports, and I'm a fan of any sport in which we can achieve success, and I could even say that I love football, but, Mr. Secretary, what is the need for this? In spite of the fact that we spend hundreds of billions of forints per year on every system, because we now heat the field through the Tao system, we can't show success. Maybe if we didn't give so much money to soccer players, they'd be as committed as the homeless themselves, and they could play with their hearts. But, Mr. Secretary, why is this necessary? Or the end is that we have to give the football player such tax breaks so that we can buy so-called good players from abroad, so that we can pay enough so that we can finally show that we can win a few games, maybe even more important matches, and we can't beat picks that aren't recorded anywhere in the world. [[Dr. László György Lukács: No, they beat us!]] I mean, if that's ever happened in the last few years. I think the average voter has had enough of this. So, I'm asking the Secretary of State because the Secretary of State, I can tell you that he represents the profession, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. I don't think we have to go on like this. I would also like to ask my fellow Members with fidesz that a congratulations from their mouth is also required to congratulate this team, because with this amount of money, the regular team cannot achieve a bronze medal, but not even less performance. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-106	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-11-29-107	Thank you very much. Well, let's start with congratulations, because those who have achieved it with their attitude and results, and who represent Hungary, have earned us honor and respect abroad, so it would be good if they were recognized and treated differently at home. Now, I would like to say a few things, or approach them by saying... Secretary of State, on the basis of what has been said so far, I do not think that you could seriously believe that this short bill can be avoided by the fact that on this part, You should not talk more about this, because you have outlined this story briefly, you have quickly crossed it, there are hardly any Fidesz MEPs, they will not protect you, so now you have to do this. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But it has to be done. Although, to be honest, I've been thinking about the backhand of what's really going on here, because you didn't put this in there by accident, and what the real problem is, or what the real reason we need to talk about today is because it's a subject that can't be ignored. I haven't figured that out yet, but perhaps the debate or your answers will help us to see what the real interest in this bill is. Let us first look at the key words that you, too, have used, and the wording of the referral, and what you have said, from the point of view of what we can conclude. You made the payment... sorry, I added whitening, you mentioned transparency. Here I was thinking that tax optimization would also come up in your presentation, or the word "cost savings" on the part of businesses could come up, the tax exemption, the simplification, it worked for me because you mentioned it, but these are the things that I would approach very positively. But then there is another approach to this, because from the budgetary side, I am looking at the tax loss, how much the state budget has failed on this permit you are planning here, and at the same time I will have a question about how much loss you are expecting. If I look at transparency and whitening, I would contrast with the notion that they are legislating the pay in the pocket, because there is practically no need to pay the tax that any citizen or worker has to pay. Here they achieve a double goal, for those who employ these players, it will cost less, so I thought that they would deal with it here in terms of cost savings, or use this concept, but here, I think they would rather legislate the payment in the pocket for a selected group. Mr. State Secretary, why don't you do this, for example, in a quiet way with doctors, say, a small amount, because they do not, and while, of course, I believe that parasolvency would be punished differently, and that would be the answer, but in this way of thinking, if this is started, then this gate will be opened, then what is the end. Why are they the only ones? Why were they chosen when this solution was applied? [[15.40]] If I compare something with cost savings, then there is the greater profit, so it will remain with these companies or even with associations, but if I take the scale into account, I can also say that this is personalised legislation. To be honest, I could tell you who is the footballer here in Hungary, who needs it up to HUF 500 million to use it, because there can't be so many, I suppose. And then maybe I'm naive, and there's a lot of that, but let's check it out. Of course, from press news, there is one sure to have a billion-dollar income, but he is not paid from Hungary, so let us return to Hungary today who is doing this thing? To sum up, let's just say it's 2. I'll do the same for the other section, Mr. Secretary, how many people do you think are affected by Section 2. Amendment of Section 3 and how much is the loss which, by the way, is left out of the budget. But to avoid being unfair is number one. I would also like to ask you the same question here, as to how many companies are actually affected by this extension, and how this is calculated. In the previous debate, I myself mentioned that it was particularly cruel at the time of the home care issue, one day to negotiate this bill, which brings this opportunity, but let us consider it to be so. I would like to ask the question here, mentioned by my fellow Member Zsolt Szabó, that decision-making will be shortened and that will now be done differently. What I mean is that the Minister is informed, and we are not talking about a decision here, but the Minister is informed, and then he has no intervention in this regard, but I may have misunderstood something. Due to the loss of opportunities and the disadvantage caused by the budget, allow me to return here in one more thought to the payments relating to sports activity, where I have seen that an international comparison is also worth taking into account, perhaps not from the public budget side at first, but from the sportsmen's side, which is simplified, weekly, so I would like to emphasise once again that we are talking about a salary of HUF 10 million per week for athletes. This is an international trend in terms of weekly salaries, and this is how they count on it, which means that we have to think about EUR 30,000 a week. I note in a low voice that there are only a few in European championships, or at least not a general one, because among the best, there are teams higher than the middle. If I can afford it, I also say that one of the best Dortmund, who leads the Bundesliga undefeated, earns only EUR 30,000. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes. Laughing:]] No, that's another case... And then we could list such examples, which repeatedly raises the question of why, or with whom, this solution is justified, even if you think so. From what I've seen, it's a rather unconventional law. It's not unusual. Football clubs were also surprised by the story, because they were said there that they were certainly not affected by the person they managed to talk to, this is far from them; this can only affect the biggest ones, such as the Slipper, or the Videoton. So if you have to think like this, it is limited to the initiative of Zsolt Semjén, who is a famous sports enthusiast for special sports, but in any case he makes a major contribution to getting this tax discount. Or it is only Deputy Prime Minister Semyen who helps to help Mr Kubatov or Mr Garancsi, who is involved in this, and who sometimes turns around here, that the farming they are doing should not push them so hard that the burden on public finances has to be fully paid, so they will now be left out of it after the adoption of the law. I see that the Hungarian state has committed itself to a great deal of public money in order to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian football. I think we can mention a lot of areas of the state budget, but from the market side, I see less and less, and I don't think this is really going to be a major professional success with club management. Raising players that can be interpreted internationally, I see that it has not been successful so far, although as a sports-loving person, I would be very happy to see this happen, but I am not sure that this will be the solution. In an international outlook, not only in comparing players, but also in terms of public finances, how much and how players tax, they do not create such paradise conditions for athletes even in Turkey; I do not talk about the other extreme, where France or even Portugal did so. Some players have also been hurt recently when they have tried to escape them, and the greatest have acted in such a way that they have been threatened with serious punishment and even imprisonment when they have not done so. I hope we're not in the middle of an extraction operation, so we don't have to solve this kind of thing. In conclusion, I see that the draft law that has been tabled, and Mr Secretary of State has mentioned three large areas which concern municipalities, concerns the competition sector, the companies, and here, in this sphere, with regard to the vigilante, it stands out, and I feel that his presentation was incomplete, so if you can provide me with answers to the questions or more, I thank you very much. Even because such hidden or tried information, thus lacking information, has serious consequences. There is a serious example of this in Hungary today, namely that when you tried to hide the fact that you accepted the criminal who had to flee Macedonia, it is generally considered that this should not have been hidden and that you should have made a decision on extradition. So let's ask for more information, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2018-11-29-108	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who first presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. [[15.50]]
u2018-11-29-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is the CXCV of 2011 on public finances, T/3620, declared as a minority item on the agenda. At its meeting on 26 November 2018, at 10 a.m., the bill amending law and other laws was put on the agenda and discussed. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution, i.e. house rule 32. § 2 by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, has decided that the bill has the whole, i.e. 1-10. The Committee would like to hold a detailed discussion by the end of this period. I would like to mention two sections of the bill. The first is the amendment of the law 7. §2 of the Act reads as follows: the 2011 CXCV on Public Finances. Law 52/A Article 3 is replaced by the following: 52/A. § 1): the 14th The budgetary support granted under paragraph 3 of Section 3 may be used until 31 December of the year following its payment. Second point: from the deadline laid down in paragraph 1 the government's individual decision may set a shorter deadline, a different date in the Central Budget Act. Third point: in the case of aid granted on the basis of an individual decision of the Government, the time limit may be extended once by a maximum of one year. The bill adds a third paragraph to paragraph 52/A. § 4a, which provides for the possibility of extending the time limit for the use of the aid granted under the Government's specific decision for a maximum period of one year. 52/A. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: It refers to paragraph 3 of § 3, which makes this option available only to local authorities in this chapter. It is important for nationalities to point out that the local government's support is the current annual budget Act IX. In Chapter III of the Act, they are presented as separate chapters. This provision should not apply to the municipalities of nationality on the grounds set out above, since the national authorities' support for their operational and sectoral tasks is subject to the conditions laid down in Annex 9 to the Central Budget Act, as set out in Annex XI to the Prime Minister's Office, under the conditions laid down in Annex XI to the Central Budget Act. and the Ministry of Human Resources, Section XX. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from earlier programming periods. The Aht. 52/A. Paragraph 3 of Section IX of the Finance Act. The general rule does not change for the local authorities except in the case of aid granted on the basis of the government's individual decision, which allows for an extension of the deadline of use by up to one year. In the case of appropriations managed by a chapter, where the national authorities may receive individual decision-making support, where appropriate, the settlement deadline shall be governed by the instrument of support. In the case of these support decisions, the general government rules do not contain a limit that would prevent the supporter from setting a longer period of up to two years in the instrument of support. As regards local and regional self-governments, Annex 9, additional rules, point 3 (a), states that the aid may be used until 31 December of the following year, and that the supporting document prepared by the chapter for the national authorities under point 3 (f) of the supplementary rules lays down the same condition. Therefore, the option under the law was already provided in the 2018 Budget Act at the request of the Hungarian nationalities and national authorities, and is also provided in the 2019 Budget Act. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Aht. 52/A. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 provides local authorities with a right which the national authorities already had under the 2018 Finance Act. Thank you to the Government of Hungary for this courtesy. The amendment submitted also reflects the fact that the Government of Hungary pays particular attention to the rights of nationalities, and, as you can see, in this case, ethnic authorities have become beneficiaries of an option a little earlier than local authorities. You can say the Aht. 52/A. With the introduction of paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Act on Public Finances, the law on public finances will provide the same opportunities for national governments and local authorities in this area. This is also important because, as we know, prolonged licence applications, procedures and everything else are slowing down implementation, so if we cannot keep up with the deadline, we may lose our support. We also ask you not to forget the issues on which the rights of national authorities have not yet been raised to the level of rights granted to local authorities. I am referring specifically to the issue of the ownership of strategic property in the management of the property of minority self-governments, which I have already mentioned in my previous speeches. Here I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his help in this. The second point: the bill is another, 9. §2 of the Act, which I would like to mention, is Aht. 48/B. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. This section lists who cannot be beneficiaries of an aid relationship or establishes the exception to whom exclusion provisions do not apply. The bill is dated 48/B. It expands the part set out in paragraph 1 (e), which means that, according to the bill, the framework of a grant relationship will be extended. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Thank you to the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Finance for supporting the work of nationalities with their willing and helpful work. Thank you to the Bethlen Gábor Fund for showing a bureaucracy reduction and problem-solving attitude within the legislative framework for the accounts of national governments. Thank you to the Government of Hungary, to the Hungarian Parliament, for being the beneficiaries of a significant increase in resources for Hungary's nationalities. The provision of the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of the ethnic institutions contributes to the survival of the Hungarian nationalities in Hungary. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-11-29-110	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to welcome you all again. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-29-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my speech earlier, I forgot to say that I think there is a way for our children: everyone must be a football player. Let's just keep an eye out, Mr. Secretary, if these laws are introduced between the walls of this House, so that there won't end up being a man who is going to do productive work, because then politicians and secretary of state won't be able to raise their salary, because we can get to the point where we represent this line, that we are trying to get these tax avoidance amendments to vote. Joke aside, Mr. Secretary, let's really say why we need it, who we want it for. We understand everything about the opposition, it's been here for the last eight years, but at least we know who they're trying to help. Who are one or two people or three or four people who need this tax relief? And maybe we understand, and we'll say we voted in favour, and then all the rest of it will pass our side of the law. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Zsolt Szabó. Here you go.
u2018-11-29-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to tell Mr Varju the four elements that I found quickly in the legislative package. One, in the case of debt-generating transactions, is a reporting and information obligation in the new Act for the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance. [[16.00]] So far, this has been a report that has been submitted to the government, an acceleration. Secondly, it is not necessary to draw up a regulation for separate public funds if no longer there is a need for a regulation on the management and use of appropriations managed by the chapter. That's speeding up, too. The third will be transferred from the scope of the chapter management body to the central management body to the powers of amending appropriations between the budgetary bodies in the subordination of the central management body. That's going to be an acceleration, too. The last is that instead of prior agreement by the Minister, there is only an obligation to provide information if appropriations are transferred between chapters managed by the Government. I think they're all speeding up. And I just want to say one important thing to the better-speaker. The rules of mathematics are the same, I'm giving double in gross wages, it doesn't mean I can compare it to a given in another place, because this isn't about a wage increase. 250-500 million. This is very misunderstanding for anyone on the outside to see this, but this is a tax issue. For my part, I believe in one thing. Education, culture, sport. I am very proud of the time when the Hungarian flag floats [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At any event, and I'd like to say that it's not just football. Handball, basketball, water polo, and there's another sport that needs this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-29-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would ask Zsolt Szabó to tell me another one outside of football, because he listed handball and waterball and so on, where 30-40 million forints could be made for each player. For a player in a month, because I don't know about that. But I have to argue with my opposition colleagues, who are constantly saying here how bad it is to raise the opportunity of echo to 500 million forints for footballers. I don't agree with you. Our football is soaring. Let us say to Viktor Orbán that he should invest as much money as possible in his favourite sport, because there were visual investments in this country, there were others in this country; the last time we could use the Tao for these visual investments, because we told him that these stadiums would not be able to be run normally, because there would not be a proper budget for it; now we can run them from the Tao with public money. So allow me to say that if the Prime Minister has a hobby of running this country so well, he can put a lot of money into it. And I think the players deserve it, too. My fellow Members, let us not forget, let us take an example: in a metropolitan city such as Felsút, a billionaire complex beside Viktor Orbán's house, there are serious top rankings. To say only one thing: for almost two weeks, Hungary was employed by 61 or 62 spectators on the rank of the other super team of Felcsút-Kisvárda. Well, don't let these players who play in a modern stadium in front of 61 or 62 viewers deserve an opportunity to wear a reduced tax rate of up to HUF 30-40 million! We have to bear such public burdens, and the associations, we know how much of a discount that is. But we can give you more examples. So don't think that Hungarian football doesn't deserve to be paid as much as possible to players who have started four teams since 2013, we know, say, every summer in the bustling heat in the international cups, in order to get almost none in August after that, sometimes with a refreshing exception. Good-okay, I know that, unfortunately, these players have to compete with such prestigious and otherwise almost invincible teams as, say, the Belarusian Torpedo or the Albanian Partizani, or, say, the Željezničar who jerks off Ferencváros, or even Podgorica. So with such prestigious associations, where they make serious money there, I suppose, the players, we must also compete with these prestigious associations. How are we going to compete with these very serious teams, like I said, like the Albanian Party? Fellow Members! I think Hungary needs to make more money for these players. Nor can the government ever be accused of being unprofessional in such a proposal. They're good at sports. The government, too, Prime Minister; Lajos Kósa proved it the last time the Sports Act was negotiated, who said because we asked why, say, Kisvárdán 3 billion forints to raise a tennis academy, a sports academy, when out of 3 billion, the entire range of tennis in rural Hungary could be run. But he told us not to be so small-minded and so limited, as it is in Santa Monica. So you understand, Kisvárda-Santa Monica. After all, in Santa Monica, rich people go to the tennis club there to play tennis with the famous tennis players, and why we want to take it away from the people of Kisvárda, said Lajos Kósa. He also said that when we mentioned this, and it also shows professionalism, it is absolutely true that you know about sports, how you can maintain these wonderful sports facilities and stadiums that you have built, that you can't maintain Bernabéu Stadium, it's also loss-making. That's why I'm questioning that sentence. But what followed was even better, as Lajos Kósa said that the Bernabéu stadium could not be maintained, but that the Catalans did not break it down. You know what I mean? [[Defiance.]] Bernabeu, Real Madrid Catalans, Barcelona. As there is internal political tension in Spain now, I am glad that Catalans do not break down Real Madrid stadium, because then I think that would be civil war. So, fellow Members, I think you should trust the wisdom of the government. They know very well where to put the money, they know very well who to give discounts to. It's not the employees, it's the footballers who need the discounts. We need as much as possible the sports investments that will move this country forward in quotes. Health care, education and all these other hoaxes that you keep talking about in Parliament, I think it's completely unprofessional. Believe the government, this is the most important issue in Hungary today! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-29-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-11-29-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the previous speech by my fellow Member Zsolt Szabó. I was very curious about what an extra sport you didn't list, because then... [[Zsolt Szabó shows two.]] plus two sports. Now we know that there are more sports where there are over 250 million... I never once said that athletes get this much, I've said everywhere that this is a reduced tax option. I can even imagine that since a normal wage after almost 40 percent of this deduction that you have to pay, so be it. Keep this up to 250 million forints and make a second lane. From 250 to 500 million, 40 percent. So I didn't say that everyone makes so much money, I said that it's a limit that gives these athletes reduced taxation. So I would like to ask my fellow Member that football, handball, water polo, basketball, hockey; these five visual team sports, which are particularly supportive of the Tao system, agree with him. What you said in your speech as a speaker about how important health education is: my child plays football, so I feel it. What I do not understand is why the budget should be burdened in this way, because it is a burden on the budget. I look forward to my fellow Member's reply on what the other two are sport. Thank you.
u2018-11-29-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-11-29-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I've had him approached, and there's nothing more positive in this area than me. Here's what I want to tell you. I wish we had athletes in every sport that would make this much money, because then it means that we will win a lot of awards, a lot of first places, and we are the strongest sport nation in Europe; I would like us to go this way. That's what I wish for all athletes. I thought of two things, one is tennis and the other is swimming. I don't go through anybody's pockets, I don't care if the neighbor's grass is green, it's ours! So be a good athlete in Hungary. That's what I meant. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] There must be one or there will be one in the future, one of the top athletes in the world who is Hungarian and who we can be proud of. That's what I trust. Thank you very much. [[16.10]]
u2018-11-29-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next, please.
u2018-11-29-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly: we are successful in sports football is not! Let me be clear, it hasn't been for long, long years. It hasn't been for long, long decades. And the Orbán government has thrown hundreds of billions of forints out of the window for this sport in recent years, while not spending a tenth of the money on successful sports where we have world-class athletes. Here there are problems in principle as to what the government spends hundreds of billions of forints on, to whom the government spends millions of forints a month, and I add: the government spends this on taxpayers' money. Now, let's not joke about someone else paying for this to be a productive sector. If only he could sustain himself, he could do it on his own. Believe me, I wouldn't be sorry even for the football players who could produce it, and people would pay the entrance fee, but I am sorry, my fellow Member Szilágyi said that there is a competition in the stadiums, where there are fewer viewers. The Hungarians also know that they will not go to such a sloppy match, while the stadiums in Hungary are growing to mushroom mode. And then let me give you another example, because I think there's nothing more important than children. They couldn't build 25 gymnasiums in 4 years worth 3 billion HUF! In four years, 25 gymnasiums! Until today, all 25 of them have not been built. That's all we're asking, is that somewhere we need to draw a little line of truth. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I didn't press for two minutes... Did I press for two minutes, Mr. President? [[For signal:]] Excuse me, Mr. President. So that should be cleared up, and that is what we have problems with, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-29-122	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, unfortunately, I can only rely on the monitor, so who asked... [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Sorry!]] The next two-minute speaker is Congressman László Varju, please.
u2018-11-29-123	Thank you very much. From what Zsolt Szabó said, I think that there is something going on that he didn't understand correctly, or that I didn't say what I wanted to say well enough. We do not object to high performance being recognised with high wages. We object to this being born in any area of life, and there is an income to be paid for, then, one: why should discrimination be made? Secondly, if discrimination is made, it is worth considering international relations that they should do so. As an example, I mentioned that in the income band of EUR 1 million, which is still available here, this income in Turkey is EUR 1 million 200 thousand, so it costs more than EUR 2.5 million to pay a salary of EUR 1 million in France. On the other hand, I say that in Hungary they make a paradise for athletes in terms of salaries, which is that if they deserve it, I will inevitably have to ask why they don't deserve it. Or if it affects very few people, then yes, we have to ask again and again: who are they, how many people are there to ignore the names now, how much of this is tax loss, and how many people are affected exactly? For the Ministry of Finance to be able to calculate this, these are the data that need to be provided. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-29-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the two-minute speeches. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I didn't think I'd comment, but it's been very exciting, so I'll join in on the congratulations, and I'd like to congratulate the homeless team. I play football, I used to play football at a club in Tapolca, now it's just a hobby level. But it must be added that Tapolca is a small town, and she cannot draw as much from Tao subsidies as she would draw, even if she could not make the investment where young people could maintain health and receive healthy education. So this city has to make up for it from its own budget and other resources. I thought of a Hofi joke, and I will give the answer to Congressman Varju as to why such a salary is needed. Hofi said that when the Hungarian played with the Swiss team, they went to him and said: "Uncle Guszti, Uncle Guszti, do you have any money? It's for soda. There's no money. It's a goal. There's no money again. Two goals. Then Uncle Guszti had money, and then the Hungarian National Team was able to win. That's the answer. We know that on an international level, those huge paybacks for football players behind whom we have to add, on the other hand, there are performances, and now I'm giving you names, Ronaldo and Messi, both football players would have gone to prison for tax evasion, but the club paid for this punishment. We want to avoid this scandal so that our football players, who are playing this sport at a very high level, do not have to go to jail because of favourable taxation. Here's the explanation, so that explains it. I've always supported sports, and football is my favorite, and I don't know a football team that I haven't even seen... [[The intervention of Dr. László György Lukács.]] Not in person, unfortunately, as the Prime Minister, but I'm gonna watch every one of these broadcasts. You can support it, but you have to think about it, if we start this day in the law of double numbers, in the case of the care fee, that there will be a doubling of sports support here. Then I'll bring you a double from my constituency that you didn't get. There, six anesthetic doctors received a gross wage of HUF 5 000 for 10 years, and the Secretary of State can now hold his head, because that's what 5 thousand forints of gross wages were paid, and that's how they had to solve the entrance from Székesfehérvár on a daily basis. They were so brazen, imagine that after seven years they said they wanted a raise. They started out double, but the hospital board didn't want to hear about it. They would have agreed on 7,000 forints, and imagine this 7,000 forints gross, which they still have to tax, so they have a business, they have to tax it, they didn't give it to them. And we're throwing money out of the window with a performance that at the moment, unfortunately, I have to say, my favorite is football, which is immeasurable in Hungary at the moment. [[The intervention of Dr. László György Lukács.]] I'm gonna add the other value, the value of health to the key person in solving the disease, and they're gonna be sorry for that kind of money. I'll add your third most important leg. There, in that department, six intensive assistants resigned, and at the moment, the debt of the lip hospital is over half a billion, which is probably due to the fact that there were hired nurses who had already gone for a much higher amount of money. So here is not taking into account cost-effectiveness and return. I'm not an economist, I'm not a professional who knows numbers, I can only think with the mind of a simple person, but it is still incomprehensible to me why a strategic sector such as health care or the social sphere receives little, even in the law of double numbers, and the sector that doesn't add any value to the Hungarian economy or the image of Hungary at the moment, why it gets so much. Mr Secretary, tell me this answer, but you will look at it and you will appreciate it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-29-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[16.20]]
u2018-11-29-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let me first thank the representatives of the various political groups and the minority advocate for agreeing and expressing their positive points on the majority of the legislative proposals submitted. The bill submitted has ten paragraphs and countless provisions. There was practically only one provision in which there was a substantive debate between the various speakers. Therefore, I would like to give you some information on the simplified public burden-sharing contribution, perhaps in order to help this debate. The first thing that is perhaps most important is that, under the current law, a simplified public burden-sharing contribution can be used by many individuals in employment categories where personal involvement is required. These include artists, actors, journalists, composers, athletes. It is true that in these occupations there are different provisions on the threshold for the choice of a simplified public burden-sharing contribution, similar to that of many other countries in Europe, where we see that athletes can typically face different taxation. In the debate, it was said that there are favourable tax rules in many countries of Europe in their eyes. From this broader perspective, let us look at how many people could potentially be affected by this proposal; the question has been raised several times. Only first class athletes were affected, with a number of 2279 in 2017. Eight of them reported revenues of more than HUF 100 million, and no one reached the HUF 250 million limit. This amendment therefore creates the possibility that if an association, a sports organisation, a professional sports organisation wants to pay for an athlete, it can ensure his employment at a higher pay limit. I think that what is very important is the difference between the cost of care in the debate and the salary of athletes, that the cost of care is paid by the state and budget expenditure. And the salary of the athlete is paid by the professional sports organization, I repeat, under more favourable taxation, but there is a very important difference between who pays the person. When we look at the impact of these rules and tax rules, I respectfully recommend to the National Assembly that we take examples of Hungarian sports where our first-class sports organisations achieve great success. Handball came up. If you look at the success of women's handball sports in Győr, the Champions League wins, or you look at the success of men in Veszprém and Szeged to think only of the last few weeks, you can see which areas are potentially useful for this amendment. We all know how the success of a Hungarian sports club, a sports organization, a team or an individual affects youth sport. We know how many young people want to play sports after a serious success, and once again, the effects of this on public health, I think, cannot be underestimated. Of course, I think it's natural to have a debate about thresholds. This debate is conducted in all countries by governmental or legislative organisations. I thought it was important to say this so that the Honourable Parliament could also consider this information when it will make the decision on the echo. If you'll allow me, I'd like to speak very briefly about the provision of another nine paragraphs. Mr László Varju also asked me, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, about the amendment of the loss reduction rule contained in the corporate tax law. By confirming Mr Zsolt Szabó and joining him, I must say that the rules on the elimination of losses have been amended since 2015. During the preceding period, the loss margins could have been carried by an undertaking for a period of virtually unlimited duration. From 2015 onwards, the write-down period is five years, with previous losses being subject to a ten-year write-down limit under the current law. This ten-year limit would now be exceeded for 15 years, i.e. it would be possible for a longer period of time to be demarcated. This improves the financial position of all the companies concerned, i.e. potentially all the companies concerned. We believe that this will enable additional investments to take place. This provision may, of course, have an impact on the accounting activities or accounting accounts of firms, their financial results and, consequently, on the budget between 2025 and 30. The impact, specific numerical effect, if any, and budgetary impact will depend on whether, in 2025, the undertakings concerned have already described their entire previous losses or not, so that the budgetary impact of this measure can currently only be determined at a very broad limit. This can reach levels of virtually ten billion from zero, but I repeat that when we are looking for an increase in Hungary's competitiveness, we are looking for ways to improve productivity and efficiency, and we need to focus on keeping investment at a high level, because, in addition to a given workforce, it is investments that will bring greater added value, ergo higher GDP and ergo higher income. This philosophy fits in with the proposal before you. It has been said many times, but I can repeat that the rest of the bill is believed to simplify government decision-making, either by keeping various documents at ministerial level, or by taking measures of a more administrative nature, shifting appropriations between ministries or transferring funds between certain institutions, without the need for government or Ministry of Finance approval, but only for information. I think that these simplification steps are once again in line with the general direction that has an impact on the development of a simpler and more efficient state. Thank you for your attention. I trust that, after the debate in committee, the Parliament will be able to support the motion submitted in the end. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-29-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you all that it was possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 today. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Mr László György Lukács, from the Jobbik Group, who should have talked about it in the T. House today, applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-29-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the aims of the series of speeches is to address everyday issues which are not included in Parliament's walls, which are of public interest, but obviously cannot be included because of the constraints of the genres of Parliament or the constraints of debates. Today's news is about hospital debt. I am particularly pleased that Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai is still here because he may be able to say something and respond to it. I encourage and encourage you to do this, because it is an old canopy, and from where else, if not from the Ministry of Finance, you can answer what the problem is. Well, everyone in the last few hours has been thrilled that the government is finally settling the debts of hospitals for this year, and from 55 billion forints, which is an extremely large sum, it is very difficult to understand with a simple human head how much it is, but it is a huge volume, so from this 55 billion forint it will free hospitals and take the burden off their shoulders. But if we look beyond the news, it is not the joy, but rather the bitterness that should motivate or characterize this news, because it points to a spiral of debt or a permanent state of health or hospitals that is alarming and will still determine the fate of hospitals in the coming period. If we're talking about hospital debt and 55 billion, we might feel a little déjà vu. We may have a feeling of déjà vu, because every year this comes up, especially at the end of the year, that somehow the runaway hospital debts need to be settled. Billions fly every year, it always stays under a hundred billion, but it is either 82 billion forints of debt that the government faces, of which 60 is paid, or otherwise stays in the 50 and 60 billion forint region, so there is always something to be added at the end of the year and the accumulated losses of hospitals need to be clarified. I calculated it because I looked into it, in 2015-2018 it was 216 billion forints, which is a huge amount of money. To make it a little easier for the Fidesz audience to understand, this is one-sixth of Lajos Kósa's long-awaited and hoped-for legacy. [[16.30]] It was also an unimaginable and amazing number, but the HUF 216 billion is also a huge problem. What the real problem is and what it really does in real life, as we translate these figures for real life: these hospital debts are mostly generated and problematic because the government is constantly generating debt in the absence of transparent and re-created rules on funding for hospital care, and the government is not putting the right money into this. This ultimately results in hospitals that are indebted for objective reasons, unable to carry out the amount of tasks they are given, and, of course, subjectively indebted, who, in a way, save a little bit of the money that can be collected by running out of debts. None of this is right, because one shows the state of an unplanning that is on the side of the central budget, and the other shows an opportunistic operating model, who is interested in drawing as much public resources as possible from the side of others. However, it can be foreseen that the consequences of this are, and I am not talking about waiting lists, but that waiting in health care is increasing year after year. The waiting list is used for certain types of surgery or for certain surgical expectations, but when we get to a doctor, how long it takes to wait, how long it takes to get sick, and how much longer it takes to wait. But that's also why some of the hospitals can't work with the right materials, they don't have the right tools, or they have the right tools, they have to replace an important tool, they're waiting for you, they're taking off because there's no money available. This process, which is in hospital debt, would be easily resolved. On the one hand, or a full overview of hospital funding, the government has had virtually no discussion of it for decades, nor has there been any mention of how to change it; or a need for forward-looking planning in the budget. After all, it can be expected that every year it will turn up, that the technological burden will continue to exert pressure, and that we have the same number of hospitals, and that morbidity and mortality data can be relatively well injected in Hungary. So there's a constant demand, there's no feedback, there's not enough money every year, so we're there every year, and that's one of today's news that the government has to reach into the pocket at the end of every year and give some of what's missing. The question is how long this can last, how long the workers will last, how long the institutions can last. I suggest that we look beyond the financing model for hospital care, and that the government make sure that hospitals have money in the course of the year. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-29-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the post-op statement. Thank you for your week's work. The Parliament will resume its work at 11:00 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed. I thank you again for your work, and don't forget, winter has come, and on your way home, pay close attention to your life and your physical safety. I wish everyone a happy homecoming. The meeting's closed.
