u2018-06-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The 2nd day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who will be monitoring our meeting today. As usual, we start the day with speeches before the agenda. Mr László Varju, from the DK Group, with the title Big Money, Little Football, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-1	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Big money, little football, little money, big football, but you could ask the question of weak forints, expensive travel. I could ask this question from the travelers of the World Football Championship at the very beginning, who intended their freedom to watch soccer in Russia, because they now feel directly how much more expensive their travel costs. Those who are going to go will feel it especially, although Viktor Orbán is certainly not one of them, who will see the final on the spot, and that will not be a problem when he leaves. Not all those seeking summer vacations, who have already been notified by travel agencies about price increases, or those who buy euros, already know how much more to pay for their vacations. But first things first. It has not even been a month since the economic side close to you wrote, "The forint scared many of us on Monday, when it marched almost unstoppably towards the 320 key level, and then, in the second half of the day, the wind turned around, holding back to 318. Today, investors were paying attention to the MNB's interest rate decision, more specifically to the subsequent communication. In this, the central bank did not express any concern about the recent decline in forints and increases in yields. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Will that be the case in the future? Even today, when we know that the euro exchange rate is above 324 HUF? EUR 324 today, my fellow Members, is a historic low. Compared to this, the Hungarian currency was soaring even during the global economic crisis, when you announced that the country was ruined. The question is, if you think it's broken then, then what's next? Do we have to be friends with the rate of 330 forints? Colleagues! Did we get to the bottom of the pit, or did we still not? Now the only thing that seems certain is that the end is far from over, and the central bank, led by György Matolcsy, has buried the national currency into an unprecedented abyss. I'll give you a quote, please live up to who said this and when:. The Prime Minister, under whose government the euro rises above 300 forints, cannot govern and must resign. Orbán said that in 2008 within these walls. Where is the 300-forint euros, dear fellow Members? ! You, who demanded a resignation at the time, could demand the quartering of the Prime Minister at the present HUF 324, but I cannot hear your voice; I can only hear your fear, and obviously because you know that you have worked very hard to have such a weak forint, which has consciously come this far over the years. This has been the loss of people paying a higher price in stores, the loss of motorists at record prices, and the gain of exporting companies, and the gain of those who keep their money in foreign accounts. And, no doubt, György Matolcsy won a great deal from the weakening of the forint to the foundations of another billion, 60 billion, which lose its public money character and buy carpets, luxury estates, Origo, Echo TV funding, producing and emphasizing TV media. That, gentlemen, shows one thing for sure. [[Németh Szilárd István: That you didn't take your medicine.]] In the case of the forint, the Fidesz of the few will benefit from it, and the Hungary of many will be the last. But why is the Hungarian currency worth pushing into the funds of Bóvl? This is higher inflation, because the central bank announced it yesterday. The Stability Act states that if both economic growth and inflation exceed 3 per cent, the fiscal law must comply with stricter rules than otherwise in force. The government predicts a 4.1 percent increase in the draft budget law, with 2.7 percent inflation, but yesterday, on 19 June, it published from the most competent, the MNB, that the expected inflation rate would be 3.1 percent. With this, we can safely say that the 2019 Budget Law proposal does not comply with the budgetary rules under Hungarian law. Orbán therefore does not have to be a good candidate to talk about the crisis to come, if he makes it himself. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I suggest not so much, but let us think a little back in Hungarian history, if you will, because history is the time to govern the MSZP. At that time, as a member of the governing group, Mr President, he supported the economic policy of the then government with a great deal of support, with the following results. One million families are in a foreign exchange crisis with regard to the admission of foreign currency credit. [[László Varju: Why is the euro so high?]] The MSZP has grown significantly during your governance - because you can raise your voice here very much, but let's think back a little bit, because you were a part of this - the overhead costs. Gas prices have increased significantly, housing and living costs for Hungarian families have increased significantly. [[Tordai Bence: It's 2018!]] What happened to the pensioners? The pensioners were deprived of the 13th month pension, the real value of pensions could not be maintained, and the standard of living of pensioners was constantly reduced. If you look at the results of the economy, you have reached over 80% of the public debt compared to GDP, there has been a marked increase in inflation, which has also affected the population's livelihood. [[Lajos Korózs: HUF 325 for the euro!]] As a result of your policy, unemployment has become 12 percent, more than 500,000 people had no work in Hungary at the time. In such a situation, Fidesz took over the government. Let's see what's happened since 2010, and who and what you're criticizing right now. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Firstly, during Fidesz's governance, the economy was on a sustainable growth path, with an average GDP growth of over 4 per cent overall, above the EU average, and more than twice that. Of course, the positive effects of GDP growth are already felt in the economy and felt by workers. There's a steady increase in income. In the last two years, we can say that Hungarian workers and Hungarian workers have recorded a 10% increase in income. As a result, demand is constantly increasing and this will further boost the economy, further increasing our economic growth, which is expected to be above 4 percent this year and the next year in 2019. Today, Hungarian families, regardless of whether the exchange rate of the forint is temporarily weakened, have a predictable, safe livelihood. [[9.10]] Predictable , it is safe, because the overhead costs have been frozen, the incomes have been increased continuously, the real value of pensions has been guaranteed by the Fidesz government and it has been observed in the last two cycles. It can be said that in Hungary people can feel now that it is a little better for them. We are working, and that is why we have submitted a budget for safe growth, so that it can be further strengthened and further improved. This budget will be the budget of Hungarian families, as we provide security to Hungarian families with significant tax reductions, increased family tax incentives and further increases in income. I think that this will affect the labour market, which will mean that many people who work and live abroad will think about it and return to Hungary. I feel that the problem raised by you, the temporary weakening of the forint exchange rate, is indeed a negative thing, but the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian families, are strong, they will endure it until the exchange rate of the forint is restored. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Csárdi, from the LMP Group, asked for the floor before the agenda with the title of priceless expensive sub-leases. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that almost everyone in Hungary has a clear experience of how immeasurably rent prices have escaped in this country. Budapest is not the only loser of this process, and not just our cities. But let's get in line. Today we see that our housing costs, the rent price, take more than 70 percent of an average salary, and this does not include the rent, but there is a solution if the government wants it. We all know who will decide on the budget here, that rent prices are primarily determined by demand and supply. What does that mean? It means that if we built rentals, rent prices could be reduced. You always deny that there is a need for high-quality, affordable, sustainable rentals, even though there is a serious need for affordable rentals. Let's line up. We know very well that there will be a school start in September, and the search for apartments for students will start in August. Thousands of students who do not study in their homes are looking for housing for the time that they want to study. You say that 2018 is the year of families - I always get sniffed up - and you say that they are preparing for demographic governance. If you are preparing for demographic governance, I think it should be taken into account that today there are about 580 thousand young people aged 20-25 years in Hungary. This 580,000 young people would like to start their own lives, but believe me, a significant proportion of these young people are not their fathers or their mothers, which, by the way, carries the fact that they may not be able to help those who started their young lives to put a few million forints in their pockets, helping them to buy their own apartments. But if we go on this road, we know exactly that we are now seeing more than 50,000 marriages a year, and I think this is a joyful development, but believe me, these newlyweds really want to have safe housing behind their lives. If we cannot answer the question of how these young people will live safely, then they will fail. This won't be the failure of the LMP, it'll be the failure of the entire Parliament. I think that there is no way around foreign exchange credit victims at this point. Allow me to read some of the numbers. In 2012, the number of evictions was 1020, in 2015, three years later the eviction took place from 2,300 apartments, and by 2017, this number reached 3636. This means that for every day, for today, for yesterday and tomorrow, there will be ten evictions. If you are thinking in a healthy society, and if you really don't want to leave our needy fellow citizens on the side of the road, then their housing must be solved. Because if we can't help them solve their housing, we're doomed. The LMP knows the solution, and I think you know the solution: rent apartments must be built. There's a source for that in the budget. The May Other Politics has already initiated the creation of a HUF 50 billion fund in the budget debate last year. This could start with a rent-apartment construction program. Of course, this is not enough in itself, but we see Germany having similar problems, and I think that if Germany is an example, it is an example from this point of view. Angela Merkel announced it a week ago. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He wants to build one and a half million apartments out of six billion forints. [[Németh Szilárd István: From Forint? Dr. Pál Völner: After all, the forint is getting stronger! Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] My question is, of course, poetic, whether the Hungarian Government wishes to do anything to solve this housing problem. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It must be admitted that you raise the problem of high rent prices, which is very difficult to pay both for employees and students in higher education. However, you also said and allow me to repeat and stress that rent prices are essentially decided by the market, demand and supply. Obviously, since there is higher demand and there is not enough supply, the suppliers are setting the price high. However, if I may, I would also like to talk briefly about how we got here. Indeed, in 2010, when Fidesz took over the government, there was no need to talk about such a problem in this country. We did not have to talk about such problems, but we had to talk about how we would create jobs for more than 500 000 unemployed people, how we would create jobs in the country, how we would stop the decline in real income and real pensions, how we would show the country's population, workers, pensioners, students a vision. Two cycles have passed, we're about to begin the third cycle, and we have some serious results to report. One serious result is that 750,000 new jobs were created in Hungary during the Fidesz administration. The 750,000 new jobs - it is true, this is a good thing - brought with it the problem that the economic background of the housing market, labour mobility, was not developed and was not created in Hungary. The consequence of this is that we are talking about the fact that neither the labour force nor the higher education students are able to find or difficult to find suitable sub-rents and especially farm them. [[9.20]] The fact is that it has to be said that unemployment has become a labour shortage in two cycles, and especially in 2013 under the Fidesz government. The result of the labour shortage is that the housing market cannot provide the background to the demand of Hungarian workers. Of course, the government has a role to play in this matter. The role of the government is to use regulatory tools and tax policy to help real market needs. The government took a very important decision, for example, by abolishing the health contribution; thus reducing the tax burden on renters; or by setting up a housing support system; or by providing support for the construction of work accommodation, four municipalities were able to live; with funds for the renovation of five working quarters; or with the HUF 5 billion tender source announced by the Ministry of Finance this year. The government can deliver very significant results in this area: in the same way, by increasing the number of college seats in higher education, by increasing housing costs in the budget of higher education institutions, which is now 3.8 billion, or, if the child has a student loan, by having a child, by taking over the repayments of student loans. It's a long list, it won't take five minutes. But the most important change has been made in the area of CSOK, the results of which are already visible. It is also very important to say that Hungarian people do not like to live in other-owned apartments, they like the apartment in which they live to be their own property. This has to be taken into account, and the government creates this for the Hungarian people with the possibilities given by the CSOK. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Bertalan Tóth Group leader, hands off the courts! A title for the speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2018-06-20-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since Montesquieu, we know that separation of powers is an institutional barrier to abuse of power. The separation of legislation, implementation and justice is the cornerstone of democratic settlement. If you look at the independence of the modern branches of power in addition to the classic, then the lawyers say that the world of the Constitutional Court and the media is already one of the branches of power. But let's see how the Fidesz stands with these branches of power. Let's see how you handle lawmaking. The other day, I turned on the channel 1 of Magyar TV. Honestly, I'm not used to watching, I'm taking care of my blood pressure, but after it's soccer-vb, so the game results and the summaries are worth looking at there. [[Németh Szilárd István: The M4!]] And the news says that Parliament has held a debate on the Fundamental Law, which is supported by the governing parties. At the centre of the communication of the governing parties is the extremely solid, granite-solid Fundamental Law. Compared to all this, a piece of Fidesz MEP was able to take part in this debate, so this is how Hungarian legislation is dealt with. Let's not talk about execution. Everyone knows what you did to the Constitutional Court. They started by cutting his powers, then filling him up with your party soldiers, and then once again with the help of LMP, and seeing what decisions the Constitutional Court has been delaying for months now. You have to look at how the Attorney General of Justice is representing the prosecution, how they stand on the fact that corruption cases that are linked to you do not have any consequences, even if an investigation is ordered, they are somehow always eliminated. We can also talk about the media, because the media bought from stolen public money, by making public media propaganda machine, are constantly pushing and subduing this branch of power. But let's see how the courts in your world stand in justice. There, too, have been many attacks on this branch of power in recent times. We can start with the fact that the President of the Supreme Court was unlawfully removed, and then the judges over the age of 62 were retired, and then a national court office was set up to be chaired by the ex-wife of a Fidesz MEP, who just betrayed the Hungarian judges the other day, which is an amazing story. He is also fighting a continuous war with the National Judicial Council to oversee him. Nevertheless, in the last eight years, the courts have not been fully controlled. Therefore, the proposal to set up an administrative court, a supreme court, which they want to write in the Fundamental Law is quite amazing, since we know the basic proposal, in this court not only judges loyal to you, but even government officials can act. And of course, it may be difficult for the voter to understand what this is about, but he will experience it, because so far his activities have shown that this court will be used in the interests of the government. After all, this court will be subject to the cases concerning appeals against the authorities and decisions of the State, the municipality, so both the procedures relating to taxation, the electoral procedure and the public interest data request will be here. This is not only an attack on the rule of law, and it is not only the fact that Hungarian citizens will be exposed to Fidesz's power interests, but also the security of investments, because both the construction rules and, as I mentioned, the decisions taken in tax matters will be assessed here. That is why we reject the amendment to the basic law. That's why we say and demand that you keep your hands off the courts. Believe me, there will come a time when you will have to deal with it both legally and morally. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr Völner, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-11	Thank you for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I wanted to link the address of your speech to the amendment of the basic law before us, but you made it easier for me because you laid out the papers. In fact, this speech was about the fact that, just as two years ago, they do not want to support the amendment of the basic law, the main thing to say is that it is not possible to relocate a foreign population from outside Hungary with foreign force. Of course, you're looking for all sorts of excuses so you don't have to say that. This was the case two years ago; you can look at the election results, how the voters rewarded it. It's obvious they don't dare come out of the woods right now. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Speak of the independence of the courts, Minister of Justice.]] They don't dare come out of the thick, and they're talking about practically all the other reasons, including the independence of the courts. I would note that since 2010 he has been able to list a single case since this government was at the head of the country, when the courts were about to be influenced by anyone, anyone would have put pressure on them, such as, say, Ferenc Gyurcsány or some of their fellow Members in his statements. Mr. Fraction Manager has listed the branches of power that have existed since Montesquieu, which have come in, but one has been modestly silent, the role of NGOs. And then we came back to what the campaign is all about, that the pressure of NGOs, their role in society, financed from the outside, or even what we can assume that this has already appeared in the parties, we can even say openly that George Soros's people can sit anywhere, in fact, from these speeches. And a few more comments. Mr Fraction Leader's statements concerning the Constitutional Court that he was filled with Fidesz party soldiers and then filled with LMP party soldiers, as the only candidates proposed by the LMP in the last amendment were those who entered the Constitutional Court, which may also give rise to interesting suggestions, as he forgets one important thing: if someone is a public official in Hungary today, he will take a so-called oath. [[9.30]] It is in this oath, for example, on the part of judges, that they act independently, impartially, practically on the basis of integrity and legislation. So I don't know if they're starting out on their own when they assume that a judge, as a determining court authority, will represent virtually any party interest in any judgment. In addition, they may not have the basic knowledge of how judges are selected in Hungary today. They are not appointed by the parties, Mr. Group Leader, thank God. Perhaps there was a time when party membership was also mandatory, perhaps it could be discussed with older party members than their predecessors. There's no such thing today. The Court's self-government bodies assess judicial applications professionally and on this basis the appeals are made on the basis of which the judges are appointed. This was the case and will remain so in Hungary in the future. So anyone who visits any party here could be influenced without transforming the judicial system, whether it's the judge or the judge in specific cases, is wrong. What you're talking about is simply an organizational, administrative question about the structure of justice. We have historical traditions for this, we have EU examples. Technically, I'd go back to where we started: you don't have a problem with the court organisation, you have a problem with this fundamental law amendment, and I'd like to draw attention to it with this pseudonym. I'm telling you, on behalf of every judge, every court organisation, I'd like to hear what's going on here. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that, when the President of the OBH was appointed, Parliament appointed the President of the Metropolitan Labour Court to lead the OBH, and not on the basis of family or family relations raised by you. Based on his professional background and professional situation, the president of the OBH was selected. By the way, on the part of the court organisations, the President's professional record has never been debated. Back to the whole problem, I suggest that you reconsider, practically not hide behind such false problems, but say openly that you support migration. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We do not support it.]] and refuse to vote in favour of this amendment to the basic law. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Mellar has applied for a speech before the agenda on the subject of the Dialogue Group on Current Affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, When I first went over the 2019 budget, I saw that there was nothing special about it. Then, when I began to deepen into it, it became more and more clear that there was a very serious change in it. It is that the budget of the academic institutions has been removed from the budget of the Academy and transferred to the newly formed Ministry of Innovation and Technology. They did so without prior consultation with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences concerned. Those who are a little familiar with budgetary matters know precisely that this change is not a technical change, but a very substantial change, which has a significant impact on the operation; which means that the nationalization of research institutions has started and that the independence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has been cut. Minister Palkovics quickly reassured the scientific community that nothing in fact had happened, that the Ministry did not wish to control science and scientific research, but merely wanted to coordinate it. When it appeared that this did not reassure those involved, he promised to create a scientific body from recognized researchers that would help to distribute research money. The fact that such a scientific body no longer has to be established has probably escaped Minister's attention, although he is also an academic, since it took place in 1825 with the effective cooperation of Count Széchenyi and is called the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. What we need to do is to respect the functioning of this, and it should be ensured that it is independent. Of course, there is a legitimate need to check budget money and research money. However, this does not require a new institution and a new ministry, as this has happened before. The Hungarian Accreditation Committee regularly reviewed the operation of scientific research institutes every five years, last time in the field of social sciences two years ago, and I myself took part in such a committee. I think that this is appropriate, and this is also in line with the Fundamental Law, because the Fundamental Law states that only scientific bodies can take decisions on scientific matters, but only scientific communities. So there is no need here for a ministry to make such a control decision. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear members of the Government, If you think that by centralising research money, innovation will accelerate and the Hungarian economy will develop faster and will grow faster than before, then, unfortunately, they are very wrong and very disappointed. After all, experience in recent decades has shown that science has only been able to function well, science has actually developed where scientific freedom has been, where institutional independence of scientific institutions has been ensured, and only where the economy has been able to grow permanently, catch up where it has been able to rely on these scientific achievements. I think that these are facts, in any case. If you maintain this change in the budget, you will vote for the past, you will vote for the lag, then you will vote that our competitiveness will continue to be weak. Finally, let me tell you something else: the consequence of this whole case is that a weekly paper has already started to list who are good researchers, what are good topics, and who are bad researchers, what are bad topics. This reminds me of the practice of the '50s. I think that this path does not lead to a strong and proud Hungary, just as the 50s did not lead to it. So please change your mind. [[Intervention from opposition benches: Dictatorship.]] Thank you very much.
u2018-06-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Cseresnyés Péter Secretary of State replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to reassure you with one sentence that the problems, or the fears you have expressed, are not fears. They do not have to be afraid of this, because our goal is to continue and continue the research, whether within the framework of the MTA, within the framework of other institutions or institutions, or in the organisation of universities, so that they serve Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. After all, you know very well that Hungary, the Hungarian economy, is facing serious challenges. I am not talking about the challenges that had to be tackled in the early 2010s, when Hungary was in a very, very deep crisis, and after the government of the last eight years, we managed to pull the Hungarian economy out of the economic crisis. We are now facing different challenges; not with high unemployment, low employment, little growth in the economy, but with challenges such as how to deliver to the economy in addition to increased labour demand, how to force and help businesses to continue to ensure the development of the Hungarian economy, and we can maintain or develop companies, the quality of work in the company, at European level. This requires that we can develop Hungarian SMEs, help their development, both within the framework of innovation and through technological change. Because in many cases, if we encourage companies to be efficient, they will be more productive. This also solves, for example, the straining labour demand on the Hungarian labour market. This requires integrating research management with a ministry that helps coordinate research. [[9.40]] For parallel research should be avoided, preferably research should be managed and supported in such a way that researchers and research institutions do their work in an appropriate way, knowing about each other's research and strengthening their effectiveness. A coherent approach to the implementation of the strategy is necessary to ensure that budget support to finance the performance of domestic R &amp; D and innovation tasks is also used most effectively, so that the ITM will actually carry out a coordination activity. In the case of research institutes, our aim is to establish, if possible, cooperation between research centres. Thus, the fear that you said will not be realized, the money is fully at the disposal of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and all it needs to be done is preliminary consultations to ensure that the research is effective and that the Hungarian economy serves the aims of Hungarian society. Our objective is to ensure that academic research also contributes to the strengthening of the economy, i.e. to make their activities more pronounced in the national R &amp; D system. This is very, very important only because the planned R &amp; D expenditure of 1.8 per cent of GDP in Hungary is a more efficient use of resources by 2020. To this end, academic research institutions should be able to provide services to economic operators for example of German institutions. These cooperations already exist, for example in the case of a European spalling resource in Sweden, where Hungarian research institutes and businesses jointly carry out supplies based on research and development. The development of the research institute network has already been done and rationalized by the MTA - you have also spoken about it. We also want to support the efficiency of the network more politically, in order to create a strong national research network that can be a partner not only for scientific but also for economic actors in the field of research and development. I believe that it would also be very, very important for you, the Dialogue faction, to examine, for example, that if you could implement the principles, the political intentions that you announced, how Hungarian society could accept this and how the Hungarian economy could finance it, for example, the introduction of basic incomes - you want to give people money without work; or even eliminate family tax incentives, the recognition that families are raising children to strengthen Hungarian society. Or maybe they'd just wipe out the family. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a home-building discount for families to get a home of their own. I think these internal debates should be held. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Adam Mirkóczki, Member of the Council, the Stop Soros, which lost Soros's character, came forward to speak before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I asked for the floor before today's agenda in order to speak frankly about the bill tabled today by the government, named Stop Soros, in a period of at least 5-10 minutes. In order to be honest about this, it is worth a little bit of the chronological aspects. There is no need to go back far, in February this year, in the beginning of the election campaign, you also submitted a bill, which was also called the same name, to which it could be said that it contains traces of this logic, let's say that it advocates the regulation of civil society organisations supported by George Soros. This has been the general debate with a lot of passion, and in essence, you have placed this package at your stake on April 8th. They said that if you were authorised by voters, this proposal would essentially continue with the detailed debate and the final vote. Compared to this, a new package was submitted under the same name, which, let's just say, does not contain, at any trace, the elements that were considered to be particularly important even in February. We cannot talk about the national security screening, the prior registration of civil society organisations or the fees paid for funds from abroad, but with a kind of salad character we can talk about a lot of other things. And the fact that you submitted this as a salad law obviously wasn't about consensus. Separately, the elements that this fundamental law amendment contains would all be worth a general debate and a long political battle, as they are important issues; social policy, security of the country is important, the role of the courts where appropriate, and, of course, it is important to stop illegal immigration. However, together, it is clear that it is not your real desire to make a consensus decision here to a large extent, but, in essence, that no one other than you should vote for it. For example, they put in the protection of Christendom and thus a pass that is evident to all Christians. There is no question that this must be supported, and everything must be done to ensure that this is effective in reality, in everyday life. But when we think about it, when we talk about Christianity, there is a passage that basically criminalizes the homeless, and that is, to put it mildly, not a social and not a Christian thought. The anomalies could continue, as it is very difficult to talk about the fact that there is no contradiction between, for example, the inclusion in the Fundamental Law that refugees from third countries from a safe country cannot have any refugee status in Hungary; the problem is only that, and you obviously know that our Fundamental Law will not override the Geneva Convention. So, in Hungarian, along with this fundamental law amendment, only a person who arrives by plane could get refugee status in Hungary, since looking around, but let's say, from the point of view of immigration, no one can come from the southern border section. There is a question of how, then, 3,500 people were granted protection or other status. If we think that you wanted to involve a 25% levy on the foreign support of civil society organisations already in February, you have now come up with - at least yesterday's press information - that immigration support organisations will pay a 25% immigration tax. This could be a cause for joy in our case, because I ask, honestly, on the basis of this passage: will companies selling settlement bonds pay taxes? The most intensive and the largest immigration support organisations in Hungary today are Arton Capital and its associates, i.e. companies selling settlement bonds. They're the ones that didn't pay taxes for billions of forints, even through offshore companies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They took it out of this country. If the Secretary of State would answer that, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2018-06-20-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It is a very difficult situation for someone who tries to make some sort of order about what Jobbik thinks exactly about the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the Stop Soros bill or immigration in general. The story begins that, in 2014, Jobbik's programme stated that NGOs that hindered public authorities, as you put it in the programme, should be declared an agent organisation. In comparison, last year, signatures against the transparency law were collected together with the left, and now you are missing again the provisions on transparency. And then now, when the government, the Parliament, wants to punish the organisation of illegal immigration, they are talking nonsense again. As many days as they have, they have so many views. They've been trying to get a hold of the government for a few days now, and you've done the same, saying that the presentation has lost its character. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's right!]] If you have indicated that we are not voting on the immigration special tax today, then indeed, I would like to reassure you that you will have the opportunity to support this measure, as the government has already informed you yesterday. [[9.50]] And as for the anti-quota constitutional amendment - which is what the House will vote on - we all remember the history well. First, Jobbik demanded that there should be a constitutional amendment, and then finally did not support it, drilling the whole anti-quota referendum, and then having a clear 98 percent result [[Loránt Violin: Don't lie!]] At that time, no amendment to the Fundamental Law was voted on. That fact, they didn't vote for it. And if you agree with the goals now, I'll tell you that you can freely vote in favour of the proposals. Your speech was very talkative about the fact that they did not make a clear statement at all as to whether they supported the amendment of the basic law and the Stop Soros legislative package. We very much hope that it is not that they are looking for loopholes and legal alibis to re-drive the government's measures against illegal immigration in cooperation with the left, because if that were the case, Jobbik would once again take sides with those who support immigration, and then it does not matter what internal political considerations they do. Honourable Congressman, While we're here, I'd also like to talk about the bill. The importance of these is enormous because they are important instruments in a prolonged fight against illegal immigration. These proposals are a serious political armor against resettlement if we accept them and, on the other hand, strengthen Hungary's defence capabilities in the case of activists, mostly funded from abroad, who support and organise illegal immigration. The government will not look silently at such activities, so tax policy instruments will be in place in addition to criminal sanctions. If someone follows international events, he can see that the adoption of the bill could not be more relevant. Let me give you some examples. As the case of the migrant ship Aquarius proves, this debate is already on fire in more and more places in Europe and is increasingly trying to combat organisations with an opaque background. Meanwhile, in Brussels, a budget proposal has been put on the table, a long-term budget proposal on which the European Union would practically settle for immigration in general. We are dealing with a pro-immigration budget plan, which will set the Union's financial framework for seven years. We can say this because there will be an advantage in this draft budget for programmes that would be put into effect at the expense of the existing traditional resources that are favourable to Hungary. To make this worse, they are still pushing for resettlement quotas. We're getting anesthesia, we can see that, but it's not off the schedule. They have not taken it off the agenda at all, and they are even talking from time to time about how they will pass this plan on to the Visegradians. And the Brussels approach is very well characterised by the statement of the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs that immigration is vitally important for Europe, because some economic sectors would not work if there were no immigration. I don't want to go into this reality right now, because it deserves a separate debate day, but I'm just gonna say, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] immigration is vital to them and Hungary's security to us. Anyone here in this House who agrees with this principle can vote in favour of the proposals today with a calm heart. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-20-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the KDNP Group, called for the promotion of Christian culture, applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today, perhaps for all of us, there is no Europe and no Hungary without a Christian culture. But at a time when, speaking with Pilinszky, the evidentiaries split when we experience a general value crisis, we experience the dominance of relativism and the consequences of a modern migration, we really need it, and it is also our shared responsibility to return to the basics. This is the basis of Christian culture in Europe and Hungary. I would like to stress that when I talk about Christian culture, we are not talking about narrowly adopted Christian faith, Christian religion, Christian churches and theology, we are not generating a debate of faith, and we are not in the fields of thought, speech and religious freedom. Christian culture is a much broader but Christian-inspired system of values, lifestyles, and a framework of life, which is a millennia of historical reality here in Europe, here in Hungary. It is a social, political, cultural and economic experiential reality, but it is also a resource and a hopeful vision that determines our present decisions. This is a Christian culture for all of us. In the spirit of this Christian culture, we all expect time from the birth of Jesus, regardless of faith or conviction. In this spirit, we are all celebrating Jesus'birthday, Christmas, as a festival of love and peace. In the spirit of this Christian culture, Robert Schuman, a father of the European Union, expressed himself in a very precise and sleek way: "Europe will be either a Christian or not. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this spirit, Helmut Kohl reflected in his call for a Europe of concern, and so, I quote, in a sentence, the Europe of the Founding Fathers has no alternative. And based his well-known summary of József Antall's values, I wanted a Christian Hungary, because only this one has a future. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And to include a liberal philosopher, Jürgen Habermas, the spiritual father of the German Balliberal side, spoke in Frankfurt in his shocking speech after the terrorist attack on 11 September 2001, in which he spoke about the new relationship of faith and knowledge in postsecular society. He spoke with great humility and gave criticism of the liberal state, and I quote: "The reprimand of religion was begun by enlightenment in a damaging way... There is no love without knowing ourselves in the other, just as there is no freedom without mutual recognition. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Two days ago, a fellow Member, not with this humility in Habermas, asked for the government side to go to hell cynically referring to Jesus. He threw Bible verses at our heads, without a soul, for he does not know twice the science of theology: we do not raisin the Scriptures. Of course, even the two words in the Bible can be read that there is no God, but just before him the psalmist added: "The fool thinks to himself that there is no God! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Bence of Turdai doesn't understand the words of time. In the century, he totally misinterprets the whole thing. But let him have faith, that is to say, according to his atheistic belief, because within the framework of Christian culture even that is: the free confession and commitment of our faith or of our atheistic beliefs; respect and acceptance of each other; the provision of inner and external freedom; the institutional opportunity of social commitment; equality of women and men; the reality of the balance of freedom and responsibility; the cultural, spiritual, scientific, social, political and economic values, performance and institutional systems of two millennia - all together Christian culture. We want not only to preserve this Christian culture, but to take pride in it, but also to protect it by all the constitutional means available to us in accordance with our historic responsibility. Because this Christian culture is a proven past values, spiritual, spiritual, material resources that guarantee survival and hope for the future. That's why we support [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the amendment of the Constitution, and we ask everyone to join us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-20-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szászfalvi, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, * God bless the Hungarian - this is how our Anthem begins. At every celebration, it can be the national holiday, the beginning of something or something, the opening of the year, the closing of the year, we often sing and sing it. This also shows how deeply the Christian culture is absorbed into Hungarianism, our main national prayer, our most sung hymn begins with the name of God. It also shows how Christianity is a nation-sustaining force for Hungarians, as our Fundamental Law refers to, and our Fundamental Law begins with the starting line of the Anthem. [[10.00]] As the Member pointed out, Christian culture is the foundation of European culture. Without Christian culture, there would be neither European culture nor Hungarian culture. This is what connects us, and also European nations, because the many European peoples, groups and nations are separated by their many languages, separated by their diverse folk habits, folk dances, old-style traditional clothing, separated by their kitchen, folklore and many other things. But there is one thing that connects European nations, and it is a Christian culture, a social or economic arrangement on a Christian basis. Everything else separates European nations, and it is the culture created on a Christian basis that connects European nations. Therefore, there is no Europeanism without Christianity, as said by Schuman, the creator of the idea of European unity, and also by Congressman: Europe will either be Christian or not, a Europe without a Christian culture is not possible, and that is what connects us. Our basic law also refers to St. Stephen as the one who created Hungary as part of Christian Europe, and in the centuries, as I said, Christianity was a nation-sustaining force. Christians are our traditions, Christians are our symbols, Christians are the basic motives of our arts, Christians are our holidays, Christians are our time, Christians are our heroes, this holds the nation together. It is this Christian culture that surrounds us as air, we do not even notice it, but if someone looks around here, even in this room, how many places will they find from the national crest to the coronation scene, and in any part of the nation's church, here to Parliament, they will find Christian-based symbols everywhere. As Congressman pointed out, this is not a religious issue, but a cultural issue, Christianity is a spiritual compass for us. That is why it is included in the amendment of the Fundamental Law, which creates the nation's cohesion. This is important at a time when we have seen impairment in Europe for decades and an identity search is taking place in Europe. In this, the Christian identity, which used to be an evidence, can now help as a compass, since we need to rephrase the culture of Europe, the culture of Hungary. Exactly because it is a huge new threat, a multicultural society, a mixed society that kicked the door at us in 2015, which is here in Europe, and if we are not careful, Europe will be a continent with a completely non-Christian culture, but a multicultural, mixed population, mixed society, which is only a transition - we all know - a catalyst period, because afterwards it will be Muslim culture and Muslim civilization that dominates Europe. Christian based here in Europe, here in Hungary, equality between men and women, Christian based on our family model, Christian based on the basic rules of business, Christian based democracy. Democracy, the rule of law, has not been established in Muslim or other cultural circles. These are all the consequences of Christendom. Canon law and many other moral documents show the basis, the moral basis, from which democracy was established. If there were no Christianity in Europe, there would have been no democracy in the world. Hence, all democratic arrangements are based on Christianity, Christian culture, and Christian view of man, not in vain on other continents, in other cultures. As I said, a Christian-based approach to human dignity is also the way we live our daily lives or the idea of solidarity that comes from neighborly love. There's a lot of people protesting this. The same protests against Christian culture - not a religious issue, as I said - but an identity issue - who denied that there was immigration, who denied that there was migration, who denied that there would be quotas against the fence, or who denied that there was a Soros plan. Now the same people also deny the need to mention the fundamental laws of Christian culture. However, apart from them, every Hungarian with a sense of worth sees clearly that this is very necessary today, at a critical historic moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-24	Secretary of State, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the Parliament, from the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-25	Dear Parliament, Today we can get a clear message from the referendum that took place two years ago and the parliamentary elections on 8 April. In accordance with the wishes of the Hungarian people, the government presented the National Security Action Plan in order to protect our Christian culture, borders and homes. Today, so far, the pro-immigration representatives are once again given the opportunity to prove to the people that they are willing to support Hungary's defence. I suggest you take this chance for yourself and for all of us, and we create a national unity on our national issues. Dear Parliament, The National Security Action Plan consists of two parts: the amendment of the Fundamental Law and the Stop Soros Act package. With the amendment of the Fundamental Law, we strengthen Hungary's sovereignty and prohibit the introduction of foreign populations into Hungary. The Fundamental Law will state that immigrants cannot be introduced into the country without the consent of the National Assembly, and that the asylum application cannot be accepted for those who have come to Hungary through a safe country and are not at risk of persecution or persecution. The Stop Soros legislative package makes the organisation of illegal immigration criminal. Everyone who organises illegal migration and encourages circumvention of Hungarian law will be punished. People suspected of organising illegal migration are not allowed anywhere near the border. The proposal makes it a duty of all organs of the state to protect Christian culture as well as our constitutional identity, which we have just heard more about. The new rules state at constitutional level the importance of home tranquility and the protection of home. The proposal defines the legal protection of the home as a state task by ensuring decent housing and access to public services. The ban on living in a public area is added to this regulation. Dear Parliament, Hungary does not want to become a host country for migrants. We cannot be obliged to do this, as we did not do anything like this at the time of accession to the EU. Our firm position is that the distribution of migrants is not a solution, their problems must be settled in their home country, not brought to Europe and spread across the Member States. By the way, unlike Hungary, people elsewhere have not been asked about the failed policy for the resettlement of millions of migrants. This issue will thus determine the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019. On the basis of a proposal from the European Commission, the next EU budget would spend huge amounts on supplying migrants, but the expenditure on the Hungarian border fence would not be supported afterwards. That's unfair! On the migration issue, the EU Member States should act as decisively as possible, as Hungary does with the construction of the fence and with the legislation, or as Italy, which prohibited the landing of Soros ships which were operating for migrants last week, did. The European electorate will certainly force the change in the position of European leaders, as we can see with Italy in Austria and slowly in Germany. Hungary did not break European laws and regulations, but the organisations of Brussels bureaucrats and George Soros. The right principle is to help where the trouble is and not bring trouble into Europe. The future of the European Union depends on its ability to protect its external borders, and if it succeeds, it is not about the distribution of arriving migrants, but about what happens to those who are already here. We should not think about their distribution, but we should take them home to where they came from, as quickly as circumstances allow. Dear Parliament, Hungary is our first! However, it is feared that Hungarian opposition parties will continue to be pro-immigration parties and that Soros plans to bring immigrants into our country. Today, opposition representatives are once again given the opportunity to prove on the most important national issues: they can put aside their party political interests, personal ambitions and are willing to support Hungary's defence. If, on the other hand, they do not support the proposals, they only confirm that they are in Soros's wages and do not want to protect the country, because they are not interested in the will of Hungarian citizens and the future of our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied to the statement by the Vice-President. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[10.10]]
u2018-06-20-27	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, Dear Parliament, If I may, I would like to begin with a quote: "The Hungarian nation has always been faithful to its own constitutional self-standing, and has always had a strong grudge against the efforts of power and, more importantly, of some of the managers of power to ignore, even destroy, the constitution of Hungary, and somewhat to merge the country. For on that faithful attachment and a strong dislike against the melting of the Magyars has indeed been passed on from generation to generation, and he is living as alive as he was a hundred years ago, and if the grace of the Almighty does not turn away from us, he will live even after centuries. This is what Ferenc Deák wrote in his Easter article on April 16, 1865. Is this idea topical today, in 2018, when Hungary volunteered to be a member of international organisations and an institutionalised form of cooperation with European peoples, i.e. a proud and voluntary member of the European Union? Does this have as much rationality as it did in 1865, obviously in addition to other historical status quos? Of course there is, I firmly believe, because that is exactly what the quote in Deak is about: insisting on sovereignty, constitutional self-employment from generation to generation, regardless of political status quo, determines the Hungarians' thinking. And why is that? Probably because Hungarian history teaches us that we were only able to succeed under certain historical marginal conditions, so to say, marginal conditions. What are these periphery conditions? Above all, external independence and the ability of internal independent political creation. It is true that there was a time when these marginal conditions were met, but Hungary could not succeed. But with no capacity for external independence and internal policy making, the country has not yet been able to succeed. Let us lay down the foundations: Hungary is contributing to the achievement of the freedom, prosperity and security of European peoples, as laid down in the Fundamental Law, and Hungary, as a Member State of the European Union, exercises some of its powers in cooperation with other Member States through European institutions. But we have not given up on our sovereignty, only on the common exercise of powers. The exercise of powers should not mean that the people lose their ultimate control over the exercise of public authority. In addition, as the Constitutional Court stated in its decision in 2016, Hungary's constitutional identity is a value that is not created by the Fundamental Law, but only by recognition. You can't give up on this in an international treaty. These are the frames. What do we see now? What we see is that we are on the threshold of adopting European laws on migration in international organisations, as well as in the European Union, without changing the basic treaties, as a result of which Hungary's sovereignty can be violated, which will result in the Hungarian people, the Hungarian Parliament, you, all Members and the Hungarian constitutional bodies losing control over the exercise of public power. The Hungarian constitution must respond to this situation, and the constitutionalist must accept an amendment that increases the resilience of the Hungarian constitution. In the view of the government, the amendment of the basic law now on the table of Parliament is capable of strengthening the frame of the Hungarian Constitution, defining the areas in which Hungary does not allow its sovereignty, and obscuring the values that represent its constitutional identity. It does so in such a way that our participation and cooperation in the European Union is not hindered but explicitly facilitated. Consequently, the proposal would record the protection of constitutional identity, state that Hungary's sovereignty cannot be dissolved in the legal order of the European Union, sets a ban on the introduction of foreign populations and states that it is not eligible for asylum by a foreign national who has arrived through a country where there is no persecution. And by means of the Stop Soros bill, he records that it is now a crime to organise illegal immigration. We believe that these are proposals that show that the country will stick to constitutional independence in 2018 in the same way as Ferenc Deák described at the time, and that it was very precisely projected for the future. Therefore, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, I would like to ask all Members and encourage them to support the constitutional amendment and the Stop Soros proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We now have a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Jordan on the publication of an agreement on the visa waiver for their diplomatic passport nationals until closure. The government referral is T/534. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The relationship with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is an indication that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has visited the country in recent years, as well as President János Áder. In 2017, a number of ministerial meetings took place last year, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó agreed on two occasions last year, including the Hungarian role in the development of Jordan's defence capabilities, the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, to which the Hungarian Foreign Minister also talked about the consequences of the migration crisis with his partner. Jordan's foreign policy is traditionally determined by its active participation in the international fight against extremism and terrorism and its interest in dealing with regional conflicts. These are goals which the Hungarian government can only support. The agreement on visa waiver for Hungarian and Jordanian citizens with diplomatic passports was based on Prime Minister's visit to Jordan on 17 and 18 February 2013, where an agreement was reached to strengthen bilateral relations. Following a high-level decision, a detailed expert consultation was launched in May 2013 with the mutual transmission and opinion of draft contracts, resulting in a text of the agreement acceptable to both parties. The signing of the contract was authorised by a Prime Minister's decision, which signed the agreement on 22 September 2017 by Péter Szijjártó Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in New York. The agreement was signed in Hungarian, English and Arabic, and the law publishes the authentic Hungarian and English text. The partial visa waiver agreement covering Hungarian-Jordan diplomatic passports consists of 11 articles and contains detailed rules for holders of diplomatic passports in Hungary and Jordan for 90 days of visa-free stay within 180 days. The aim of the agreement is therefore to allow Hungarian and Jordanian citizens who have diplomatic passports to travel to each other's territory visa-free for less than 90 days of travel. By concluding the agreement, therefore, holders of diplomatic passports can organise short-term travel without the administrative burden of handling visas. The signatory parties shall, of course, undertake to comply fully with the laws and other provisions in force in the territory of the other Party. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-20-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as we have heard, we are moving forward with the presentation of the bill on the publication of an agreement on visa waiver for their diplomatic passport nationals, I believe, on the basis of a government strategy mentioned by the Secretary of State, which clearly aims to improve bilateral relations and to consistently represent Hungarian interests in bilateral relations, because this, as we often say, also helps to increase the country's international weight. [[10.20]] This is all the more important in the case of Jordan, because in a regional comparison, as Mr Secretary of State has said, it is a very stable country with a good talent, so it is advisable for Hungary to strengthen its relations with this country, and one of the most fundamental ways of doing so is to address the issues of entry and residence first in the case of a narrower circle. This Agreement therefore provides for the possibility for nationals of both Parties with diplomatic passports to travel on the territory of the other Party not exceeding 90 days on a visa-free basis. At the same time, as we read, nationals serving at diplomatic or consular representations of one Party in the territory of the other Party who hold a valid diplomatic passport and their family members living in the same household may enter the territory of the other State with a pre-issued visa. I believe that this agreement will effectively help to foster bilateral relations. Ladies and gentlemen, In our external trade relations with Jordan, I believe there is still room for improvement. I would just like to quote a few figures: In 2017, we have 80th place in our exports, while in our imports we have 87th place in Jordan, with less than 8 million inhabitants of 5300 US dollars in GDP each. It follows from the differences in our countries' development that our foreign trade surplus amounted to 45 million US dollars in 2016 and 30 million US dollars in 2017. As a result of the fall in our exports in 2017, imports of USD 1,25 million from USD 32 million are currently based on KSH data. I am convinced that this is something to be improved. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the fundamental conditions for closer relations with Jordan is that there is a kind of institutional partnership between us, and on this basis, the Euro-Mediterranean agreement with the Member States of the European Communities and the establishment of an association between Jordan, which was negotiated by us, as Mr.Secretary said, in 2011, is also a Euro-Mediterranean agreement. The second criterion is that transport between our countries should be orderly. Unfortunately, given the distance and the situation in the region, the issue of air transport needs clarification, and this is also the regulation of the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Jordan, on the other, which we announced in 2011, which is now open to vote in this House. Although all the conditions are given, there is unfortunately no direct flight to Amman, so unfortunately Hungarian citizens can only be transferred, typically via the touch of Vienna, Frankfurt, Istanbul or Rome. On 4 February, one of the low-cost airlines operating in Hungary, Ryanair, announced that it would start a flight from Budapest to Jordan twice a week in the winter season of 2018. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is reason to hope that this is progressing more and more in the tightening of our relations in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Usually there is no great debate between the walls of this House on foreign affairs, and I do not want to interrupt this custom myself, but while I welcome, as the lead speaker before me said, that bilateral relations are important, I am pleased with the sentences he said in his expoze, but I ask you the simple question, which seems to be poetic, that if we say the name of Jordan in Hungary today, which is an average person dealing with politics, then what names will come to their minds. What do the average Hungarian people think when we talk about Jordan's bilateral relations and provide 90-day visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, what do they think about? Mr. Secretary of State didn't say in his expo here that the Ammanian embassy of Hungary is still in the property owned by the Jordanian honorary consul? How much do we pay this man with the Hungarian taxpayer's money, what about the Hungarian citizenship application that, if we are aware, was not given to Zaid Naffa for reasons of national security? And do you still think that it is right that the Hungarian visa applications will be considered through this person, is it right that this person's private company will receive HUF 220 million in public money from the trading house, the Hungarian trading house? So when we talk about the fact that it is very right and important for bilateral relations to be strengthened when we talk about it, and we will obviously support this motion to allow people with diplomatic passports to stay for 90 days without a visa, I think that it is worth answering these questions, which I have just flashed, to the government and to the Secretary of State. As long as they do not do so, there will always be a breeding ground in this country for the fact that this Convention is all about creating the possibility of easier and easier movement for certain businesses in Jordan. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-20-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now an opportunity for speakers to take part. [[For signal:]] Member György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group, the notary of the Parliament, asked for the floor. Here you go, notary.
u2018-06-20-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Indeed, the debate has raised legitimate questions about various economic relations and ongoing economic relations, which has been said here, but I feel that this is not what this is about at the moment. It is expected for all countries that citizens who have diplomatic passports wish to travel around the world as reliable citizens of that country. We believe that this is a technical amendment proposal, a technical proposal, and therefore the Jobbik for Hungary Movement supports the introduction of visa waivers for people who, as I say, really need to be respected citizens in their own countries to have diplomatic passports. So we support the proposal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-37	Thank you very much, Mr President, but briefly for a suggestion. I would like to thank you for your support, and I would like to respond to Mr Molnár's suggestion in that I have understood the suggestion, and I would like to add that it is always the sovereign right of the country of dispatch to whom he designates as honorary consul, and this is also the case, and it is perhaps important to make so many comments on the matter that Zaid Naffa's honorary consular function was approved in 2003 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Government, László Kovács. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-20-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the visa waiver of their citizens with diplomatic, service and special passports will now follow. The government referral is T/532. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[10.30]]
u2018-06-20-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We established diplomatic relations with the Omani Sultan in 1990. Hungarian Levente, State Secretary for Economic Diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held political and business talks in Maskat on 3 June 2015. As part of this visit to the State Secretary, it has been confirmed that the strengthening of our economic relations is a long-term justification for the establishment of an independent foreign representation. The most important element of the Hungarian-Romanian relationship is MOL's marked energy cooperation, MOL's long-term consideration of the Omanian relationship. It is also important to note that Hungary offers a scholarship to the Sultanship for 150 students. The purpose of the current agreement is to ensure visa-free entry for holders of diplomatic, service and special passports in Hungary and Oman and a visa-free stay of up to 90 days in Hungary and the Omani Sultanság. The visa waiver granted to state leaders and official representatives, diplomats and civil servants can greatly help to strengthen political, economic and cultural relations between the two countries. As a result of the consultation of experts between the Parties on the mutual transmission and opinion of draft contracts, the text of the Agreement which is acceptable to both Parties was established. The signing of the contract was authorised by a government decision whereby the agreement was signed by Deputy State Secretary Bus Szilveszter in Maskat on 25 April 2018. The agreement was signed in Hungarian, English and Arabic, and the law publishes the authentic Hungarian and English text. The partial visa waiver agreement covering diplomatic, service and special passports in Hungary-Romania consists of 17 articles and contains detailed rules for visa-free stays for holders of Hungarian diplomatic, service and special passports in Hungary and Oman for 90 days within 180 days. Members of diplomatic or consular missions and delegations accredited to international organisations, as well as members of their families living in the same household, shall continue to be required to obtain a visa and a residence permit from the host State prior to their entry. To sum up, the aim of the agreement is to allow Hungarian and Omani citizens with diplomatic, service and special passports to travel to each other's territory without a visa and to be free for 90 days. The conclusion of the agreement thus avoids the loss of time and the administrative burden associated with prior visa management. The signatory parties shall, of course, undertake to comply fully with the laws and other provisions in force in the territory of the other Party. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-20-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the visa waiver of their citizens with diplomatic, service and special passports is before this House. The recently signed agreement in Maskat, I believe, is also particularly important in terms of strengthening our relations with Oman. In view of the economic strength of this state with a population of less than five million, it is appropriate to move forward in the pursuit of bilateral relations. Only a few figures: last year we exported EUR 12 million to Oman worth 340 thousand, including machinery and electrical goods, vehicles, optical devices and iron and steel goods. Although the country's expected 1.3 percent GDP growth is considered to be contained, there is still room for strengthening our external economic relations. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to make a technical comment. In this bill, the explanatory memorandum shortens Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts to Nsztv. As in Law L of 2005, the year III on the referendum was 98. law and the applicable referendum law adopted in 2013 do not provide for their own abbreviations, but Nstv. abbreviation in law was used to designate the referendum law even before the adoption of the law on the procedure for international treaties, and this was also clearly stated in the amendment of the existing referendum law adopted in 2016. So, if there is already an abbreviation, its use to designate another law, I think it can be misleading. If the subject matter of the two pieces of legislation marked with the same abbreviation is far from one another, it is more appropriate to shorten the law which came into force later in another way. Since Act L of 2005 is also shortened to Nkstv., its application would be the right direction in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, With these comments, I recommend to this House that the bill be adopted. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-20-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Gyula Molnár, is next. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Once again, I must start by saying that, of course, we are pleased that bilateral relations with any country are improving and developing, especially with a country in which there is indeed a very serious potential for development. I must apologise to this House and to you for, of course, not talking again about the importance of visa-free travel with such diplomatic passports, but of a little something else. In some ways, you have created this opportunity, as you spoke about opening foreign representation. That's what I'd like to talk about myself. I would certainly not like to recall the items of the closed Foreign Affairs Committee in the public session of this House, but as far as I am aware, the Ambassador concept cannot be regarded as a qualified document, and I would like to highlight some of this here before the plenary session of this House. Richard Hörcsik was also very happy to say the EUR 12 million turnover; we were working with a figure of USD 27 million in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A $27 million turnover with a country cannot be considered as an immediate strategic need for Hungary to enter into an extremely expensive business, such as the opening of an embassy. We don't know exactly what it will cost to open an embassy immediately. If MOL has some business interest in this region, which we have seen well from the purchase in Oman, why does MOL not open a representation on behalf of the Hungarian State? If the Hungarian state thinks that this region is important from a commercial point of view, why not open a trading house? Mr. Secretary of State will tell you here that we are against the trading houses ourselves. In general, this sentence is true, but I would like to say that if the trading houses have any meaning at all, then they are in places where, by the way, Hungary does not have this kind of representation. In the concept, the ambassador-designate says that in the coming years there will be five priority areas for the development of the Omanian economy. This is manufacturing, mining, fishing, tourism and transport, logistics. Let me ask the rhetorical question, Mr Secretary of State, in this House, which Hungarian companies, in these five priority areas, may be able to deliver such a performance, which justifies, by the way, putting such energies into bilateral relations or opening up the embassy. So while, of course, I say once again, we support all these types of bilateral relations, anything that facilitates entry or exit, we consider it important, only if this was already a topic in the House, let me indicate that there are probably degrees in bilateral relations that are worth keeping, and here it seems a little too big a step to open the embassy from a distance. Here again, I can say that perhaps in some way the sanda thought that perhaps there are other individual business interests behind it, not public interests. Thank you very much. [[10.40]]
u2018-06-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak with representatives. [[For signal:]] I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Congressman György Szilágyi, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2018-06-20-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The situation is the same as on the previous item: it is actually a technical proposal that needs to be supported and supported in all normal countries. Nevertheless, I must note that, in this question, that we have come this far, to this agreement, there are some things that we need to talk about. The question is, when did the signing of this agreement start? The question may arise, perhaps when Ráhel Orbán and István Tiborcz negotiated in Bahrain with the oil and gas leaders, the gas leaders of the Sultanship, and until today it has not been established in what rank and capacity they were there and discussed, and what they were discussing at this meeting, where, by the way, for a very long time, the Omani partner believed that they were negotiating with Viktor Orbán's wife, it turned out later that he was his daughter. This could probably have been a preparatory trial, after which Viktor Orbán met the leaders of the sultanship here in Hungary, and we also know that there is now a decade-long relationship between the sultanship and the MOL group, as the Sultanship's state oil and gas company has a 7 percent share in the MOL group. These are probably all part of the conclusion of this treaty, and I think it would be good to play it with open cards at all times, and indeed to find out why you are bringing to the public of Parliament, what we are voting on, the real background to this. After all, if we only vote to make it easier and visa-free for people with diplomatic passports to travel to each other's countries, this is an absolutely technical proposal, as I said on the previous item, and is eligible. We will also support this, but we would like to know something about the background of such proposals always, especially if - I repeat - we take the events from September 2015, the events of the last three years, the starting point of which is the negotiation of Ráhel Orbán and István Tiborcz in Bahrain, for which we still do not know the reason, and we do not know what capacity and what the leaders of the Sultanship were discussing there at that time. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-46	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking everyone to talk about the item on the agenda. There have now been two speeches which do not affect the proposal that we are discussing. It goes without saying that in a general debate, the content of the contribution is free, but I ask everyone to talk about visa waiver. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, I would like to react briefly in a few sentences. In any case, I would like to say to Mr Szilágyi's comment that I would like to reassure the Member: the diplomatic affairs of Hungary, if you will, are handled by the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, so that I can answer his question. To Mr Molnár's point - he mentioned exports - we have a view in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we believe in numbers in this regard. Every year since 2014, Hungarian exports have fallen, each year reached a record, and last year it exceeded 100 billion euros. Compared to 2014, Hungary's exports to the countries of southern and eastern opening, which you often criticized, increased by 15 percent in the eastern direction, despite the not-so-friendly geopolitical situation, and by 25 percent in the southern direction. And if you have mentioned Hungarian businesses, these results, these export results - and I have not yet told you about the investments, perhaps I wouldn't even open that parenthesis - show what work is going on in the country, there is a demand for this work, for the performance of Hungarian people abroad, and the exports that we can carry abroad, obviously, mean keeping Hungarian jobs, creating new Hungarian jobs, raising salaries, and even innovative development. So Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, in the same way as larger businesses, can continue to rely on the Hungarian government to help them get abroad, thus helping to preserve Hungarian people's jobs and create new jobs. The numbers show that we are on the right track, and we want to go on this path. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and Hong Kong, the Government of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, is now taking place on the draft law on the publication of the Agreement on the programme of temporary work for tourists until closure. The government referral is T/531. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Within the framework of the programme envisaged by the agreement before us, citizens aged 18-30 years - up to 200 persons per year in Hungary - may stay in the territory of the other party for not more than one year. The purpose of the stay is primarily tourism, in addition to which temporary work may be undertaken if the conditions laid down are met. The visa for temporary work under the agreement, valid for a maximum of 12 months, is an existing residence document in Hong Kong. Hong Kong initiated the conclusion of the agreement in March 2015 in order to deepen economic, tourism, cultural and educational relations. Dear Parliament, Hungary is already party to several of these agreements with New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Japan and the Republic of Chile, thus ensuring the practical implementation of the agreement by Hungary. Dear Parliament, The agreement serves the right purposes, meets Hungary's national interests, and it is timely to conclude it. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to announce an agreement between the Government of Hungary and Hong Kong, the Government of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, on the programme of temporary work for tourists. As the Secretary of State has said, the issue to be dealt with by the agreement is not unknown to this House, since we did so in 12, for example, in New Zealand or in 13, in connection with Korea, by declaring a similar agreement. In this case, like other remote areas or states, the relationship between Hungary and Hong Kong can be strengthened by providing wider opportunities for young people in Hungary and Hong Kong to learn about the culture and lifestyle of the other party. The present Agreement therefore specifies who and where to apply for a one-off trip to the territory of the other Party for a maximum period of 12 months. The proposal before us also sets a ceiling: a total of 200 visas can be issued to Hong Kong and a total of 200 temporary residence permits can be issued for travelers to our country. Thus, within the framework of the programme provided for by the Agreement, the citizens of the two countries aged between 18 and 30 may stay in the territory of the other Party not more than one year, and the main purpose of their stay is not to pursue employment, but to work temporarily in the event of the fulfilment of tourism and certain conditions. [[10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction supports this proposal because the agreement fits well into the Hungarian-Hong Kong relations system and would also serve the further development of human and youth relations. I think we can agree with the rapporteur that this agreement can have a positive impact on the whole Hungarian-Hong Kong relations through its positive impact on economic, tourism, cultural and educational areas. Given that Hong Kong initiated the WHS agreement with Hungary on the temporary work tourist programme in March 2015, and that the agreement was signed in December 2016, I believe it is timely for this House to discuss and adopt this bill. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I have now stood up only and only to comply with what Mr President said first in relation to these two contributions. I would like to remain on the subject, and I would like to say that this is an excellent proposal. It is very important that Hungary has this type of cooperation. I think that it is an exciting, interesting world for those who are going to enter this programme, and I would like to make it clear that we are, for our part, fully in favour of this proposal, and we are going to vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak with representatives. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor, please.
u2018-06-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, All agreements that can strengthen economic relations between two countries based on mutual benefits are to be welcomed. It is particularly important for Jobbik's group to make sure that young people live in any part of the world, whether as visitors or students, are brought to Hungary. We consider that any such relationship can only strengthen our country's international judgment for the future. In this respect, of course, we welcome this convention and its publication. What I have already said in my previous speeches in relation to the conventions, I am now forced to repeat it again: it is hard to imagine that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the administrative bodies which are responsible for ratifying such agreements could not do so more quickly. The signature was also signed on 1 December 2016. I can't imagine it taking so long to get this in front of this House. I ask with great respect for everyone involved in such activities by the government, that, in order to improve our international image, we set an example in all the productive and forward-looking activities of our country in order to carry out these tasks more quickly. I hear very often that even slower processes are taking place in international space. I don't usually care how they do things elsewhere, I want Hungary to set an example in everything, especially in our international relations, to take the lead, and not after such a long period of time, we do not have to announce to our country, in fact, a number of profitable conventions in international space. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Károly Kontra: Yes, I wish.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the political groups for their statements of support. The Government of Hungary aims to ensure that these legislative proposals are adopted as soon as possible, since this, as I said in my expozem, is in line with Hungary's national interests, is in line with the interests on the basis of which the proposal was drawn up and presented to this House. I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal in the vote as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law between Hungary and the Slovak Republic on the publication of the Treaty on State Borders will follow until closure. The government referral is T/533. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/533 on the publication of the Treaty on the state border between Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic. I would like to say that the Treaty before this House serves to replace a treaty signed in Prague on 13 October 1956. The new Treaty replaces obsolete provisions on the marking of the state border, ensuring its visibility and the maintenance of border signs. In addition, the proposal provides for the replacement of border areas which have become necessary as a result of the change in the Ipoly border river, and also for the replacement of areas related to the establishment of a national waste water channel by the municipality of Somoskőújfalu. Following the entry into force of the Treaty, it will be possible to carry out transport, a facility for border control or water management purposes in the area of the state border and a cross-border pipeline. The procedures for expropriation and the exchange of instruments for ratification of the contract necessary for the replacement of the territory covered by the contract have been completed and the publication may be made. The agreement complies with Hungary's national interests and the conclusion is timely. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-61	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As an introduction, allow me to share an experience with you. In March this year, one of the accompanying events of the Interparlamental Union Assembly in Geneva was the 100th anniversary celebration of the Baltic Sea countries. On the evening of 26 March, the Hungarian delegation attended the centenary ceremony of the founding of the Lithuanian State at the invitation of the Vice-President of the Lithuanian Seimas and the Head of the IPU Delegation. In his speech, the Vice-President of the Lithuanian Parliament recalled that in February this year Lithuania celebrated the restoration of statehood in 1918 and in March the restoration of independence in 1990, which was released both times from Russia and the Soviet Union. At a concert held at the United Nations Headquarters in Geneva, the head of the Estonian, Finnish and Latvian delegations spoke, among others, and all of whom briefly remembered the recent 100th anniversary of the independence of their country. But why am I telling you this? Among the highlights of the event were the friendly comments with which representatives of several invited countries welcomed the celebrations. Among them was Australian senator Catryna Bilyk, who, in addition to celebrating the 100th anniversary of their independence, said that they were completely unfamiliar with the problems faced by nations and countries living together on the continents, since Australia alone is located on a continent, on a huge island, and does not face situations caused by the storms of history or the consequences of living together, which countries living side by side on continents face in almost everyday life. [[11.00]] I confess that it was interesting to listen to Senator's suggestion, her thoughts. And as you can see, life has confirmed its words today, because before the National Assembly there is a proposal concerning the state border between Hungary and the Slovak Republic. Life has shaped this, that this is necessary, and, as Mr Secretary of State has said, at the same time as the adoption of the Treaty, a Decree-Law No 15 of 1958 on the publication of a treaty between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Czechoslovak Republic on the regulation of the state border on the 13th day of October 1956 in Prague will be repealed. This is because of the creative work of life and nature. We are living at a moment when the borders of our country are changing, at six different points, with this treaty replacing the area of 0.18 square kilometres, that is, this is what is transferred from Hungary to Slovakia and vice versa. As a result of the changes in the water management and regulation work on Ipoly at Letkes, Ipolytölgyes, Pőcsény and Tésa, Slovakia's territory would be reduced by about 3 hectares, which will be settled at Hont. Indeed, as has been said, the municipality of Somoskőújfalu has carried out sewerage works and has established a cross-border sewerage channel. The resulting situation should also be corrected in order to ensure that the areas concerned can be used. Ladies and gentlemen, The border change like this is not unique, it was the last time it happened two years ago, it is true that we exchanged 25 thousand square kilometers with Slovenia instead of Slovakia. regulation of the Lendva Creek. The proposal before us primarily serves the objectives mentioned above, but also helps to ensure that the state border is marked, visible and border signs are maintained in an appropriate manner. Therefore, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-20-62	Thank you very much. I'm sure the 25,000 square kilometers were a little bigger than what we're talking about, but they'll clear that up in the minutes. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a bilateral Hungarian-Slovak treaty ahead of us, don't we? And while we know that the adoption of this is also of Hungarian interest, it is in Somoskőújfalu's important interest, for a moment, if my fellow Member has made a small detour on the subject, then let me do the same, although I will not make such a detour. After all, we cannot go without saying the fact that we are now entering into an interstate contract with Slovakia, which continues to severely restrict the rights of Hungarians living in its territory. Under the Citizenship Act, who takes on the citizenship of another State, he loses his Slovak citizenship, loses his health insurance, employment, voting rights. This is XXI. It is unacceptable practice in a European Union rule of law in the 20th century. In this matter, you, my honourable members of the Government, have achieved absolutely no results in eight years, although you have not made any special efforts. However, Beneš's decrees that discriminate against, discriminate against and discriminate against Hungarians in the Highlands are still in place, and the circumstances of the police officers in Dunaszerda are still unclear. In recent years, I have asked the representatives of the government on several occasions, János Martonyi. There have been several promises of progress in this matter, and it has not happened. The use of the Hungarian language is severely restricted, and János Esterházy has not been rehabilitated by any Slovak court to this day. Not to mention how far the Hungarian community in the Highlands is from the clear European forms or ground-based territorial autonomy that ensure their survival. In these circumstances, therefore, let us look at this bilateral treaty, and we can immediately see an amazing injustice, an eye-scratcher. On the part of Jobbik, Mr Secretary of State, we find it seriously outrageous that the contract consistently refers to settlements along the border of Hungary or, in the vast majority of the Slovak settlements, such as Ipolyszalka, Ipolykiskeszi, Ipolybeard, Szete or Ipolyság. We would like to propose an amendment in this matter and ask that the term be changed to the word in the contract in a consistent manner to the one in the territory of the Slovak Republic. It's an ambiguous term. I understand that we are obviously thinking here, as Slovak settlements, that it is located in Slovakia, but I think the reader here may have the feeling that there are two peoples on both sides of the border, even though we know that this is not the case. I believe that this wording is very offensive and offensive to these villages, but to the entire Hungarians of the Highlands. We ask that our amendment in this regard be adopted and considered. It is clear, as has been said here, that the signing of the contract is in the interest of Somoskőújfalu, since their sewage treatment plant, their sewerage, extends across the border. However, it would be important and we do not fully understand why this did not happen, and the examination of the rest of the border section, especially since this treaty was concluded even in the midst of the great Orbán-Fico friendship. With regard to the Bős-Nagymaros water escape, I would like to draw your attention to this, the 1997 judgment of the Hague International Court states, and I quote, that the Slovak and Hungarian parties must modify the status quo created by the diversion of the Danube for the benefit of Hungary by means of bona fide negotiations. However, this has not taken place to this day. In principle, conciliation negotiations are ongoing, but we cannot read about this issue in this Treaty about territorial measures or the need for them. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State and ask him to answer in his closed voice how these negotiations stand now, and why this agreement does not address this issue. If the negotiations have not yet reached a stage to address this issue in the agreement, why have we not settled this issue together, or why have we not waited for this issue to be resolved with satisfaction? It is much more serious than that that Hungary's border on this trail is the main line of the Danube, at least in accordance with the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947, which is rather humiliating to us. However, the main line, more specifically the Danube, was unilaterally distracted by the Slovak State, thereby changing the main line. On this basis, the question may arise whether, out of the 428 inhabitants of three settlements, Dobrogaz - in 2011 299 Hungarians, 109 Slovaks - and Vajka - 460 inhabitants of 327 Hungarians, 122 Slovaks - and Nagybodak - 306 Hungarians - should not belong to Hungary at the time, since these settlements were supposed to be outside the state border of Slovakia by diverting the main line. We obviously know that the Slovak-Hungarian Treaty also exists, in which Hungary has waived territorial claims against Slovakia, but we still feel that this situation should be clarified. We look forward to the government's position on this. As long as we cannot see clearly on the issues I have raised, Jobbik can only take a stand. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I wondered if we hadn't voted for the Stop Soros legislative package in the afternoon, what a good tabloid theme in tomorrow's newspapers would be to amend the agreement signed on October 13, 56. How could the people signing in Prague then feel 10 days before the Hungarian Revolution, that they would conclude a treaty on the state border? The other is that I do not want to go as far as my better fellow Member did here, but indeed, with Slovakia, the change of territory, the border is always a delicate and exciting issue. In addition, in the previous comment, we urged them to go through the treaty quickly. The Hong Kong agreement of December 2016 is ahead of us; a 2001 Joint Commission agreement was this border amendment. The question is whether Ipoly knows that in this 17-year period, it should not be able to make a type of movement that, in any respect, amounts to 0,18 square meters. It can cause a change. What if Ipoly doesn't take this into account, and in the last 17 years, it has made further movements in the area, which, if necessary, requires that this should be reviewed shortly? [[11.10]] The other thing I would like to say, and I consider it extremely important to myself, is that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council should be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We can live in a Europe where Somoskőújfalu is a settlement with a parliamentary approval, with the approval of a contract, and can finalise an investment that improves its own life. I think it's important. In this connection, let me say that in 2010, the elected Prime Minister said that he wanted to resolve the issue of Hungarians in the Highlands relatively quickly and effectively. There are many open questions. These are obviously not questions related to your wallet, but while I'm here, let me tell you that nothing happens in Slovak-Hungarian bilateral relations. There is no meaningful communication with Slovakia, while the Hungarians in the Highlands share a number of political issues and suffer the Hungarian foreign policy that gives birth to the strengthening of their political divisions, thereby weakening their positions of interest in the country. Nevertheless, we will obviously support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-20-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak with representatives. [[For signal:]] Mr Richárd Hörcsik has spoken to the Fidesz Group again. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-67	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, because of the involvement of my constituency, to briefly state the bill before us. Because if you look at the map, from Zemplénagárd to Szemera in Abaúj, for about 130 kilometers, the boundary is also a state border, and this value is quite significant in relation to the 655 kilometers length of the Slovak-Hungarian border section. Ladies and gentlemen, The main reasons for the creation of this contract, as we have heard, are the movement of the river Ipoly and the trace of a public utility investment. In the latter context, it is worth recalling very briefly the reasons in depth. Anyone who knows the circumstances of the acceptance of the Trianon Treaty and the Paris Peace Treaty and the work of the committees that set the exact boundary may know how much to fight so that the Hungarian party does not get worse from its inherently bad situation. The interpretation methods for international contracts have always proved to be valid or irrelevant according to the way they were favourable to the neighbouring state formation. When the Trianon border was established in 1921, for example, Zemplén's capital city, Sátoraljaújhely was split up in such a way that the railway repairer and the main station remained for the Czechs, but they tried to take away from us, for example, in 1947, a map error caused the return channel between the flood defense of Mosoni-Duna and the floodgate of Rajka and Nagy-Duna. Ladies and gentlemen, This contract also has other practical consequences. At the same time as the text of the contract before us, the border was re-assessed and the border signs were re-assessed in 2015 and 16 at the border section of my constituency. In addition to the recurrent execution of such work, the contract therefore provides that the parties must ensure that a maintenance zone of one metre wide on both sides of the state border, free of vegetation that hinders the visibility of the border and of the state border, is established. Ladies and gentlemen, We Hungarians today still have the task of making the most of the difficulties. The winding border in the North-Middle Mountains passes near a number of natural values, so it was a good initiative, following the accession of the two countries to the European Union, to create a tourist sign along the border opening, as well as the most beautiful parts of Zemplén from Balassagyarmat to Sátoraljaújhely. However, if the route does not become alive, it does not link the two countries and the two nations, the great sacrifice made by the few to create the signal. Unfortunately, the northern green has never really become popular, because in its design, as we read, some of the organisations involved have unfortunately lacked support and goodwill, and at present there is a lack of dedicated cooperation between the tourist movements of the two countries in addition to the related infrastructure. Although some of the short sections of the border are still useful as a tourist route, it is important to take into account the aspect of our contractual obligations in relation to the border sections managed by the Hungarian party that we also support tourism capable of improving the situation of border areas. The border opening is clear, and we will make it profitable all along, taking into account the terrain. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, Mr President, not to go back to this item on the agenda, but to the former Hungarian-Hong Kong Convention, and to answer the question of Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, when she asked why it takes so long to accept it. I would like to say that, in particular, in relation to this convention, this is because the Hong Kong side was a mistake in the English text of the Convention, which had to be corrected. In diplomacy, it is not simple and not fast enough, let's say, in relation to the Hungarian legislation, the adoption of the convention. That's the reason. But also to get to the discussion of this item: thank you for the contributions of my fellow Members who have given their support to the proposal. I ask you to do the same in the vote. With regard to Mr Szávay's contribution, I would like to say that this proposal is made to this House because it has been agreed on this; for example, with regard to the Danube, the negotiations with Mr Bős-Nagymaros have not yet resulted, and we cannot yet make a proposal to this House. I would like to say that the Government of Hungary is basically acting in the interests of Hungary on all matters. That is the case on this issue, and it is the case on all matters. As regards the local names you brought up, or in your comment, you mentioned why the settlements are included in the Slovak name, and why they are in Slovakia, you said... [[István Szávay: Slovak settlement.]] Yes, that's right, so why he's listed as a Slovak settlement. There is only one reason for this: there are currently settlements in Slovakia, so I can give you this answer to your comment on this. I would also like to thank Mr Gyula Molnár for his contribution. The reason why the adoption took so long was because of the need to amend the constitution from the Slovak part, as the state border was regulated in it. On the Hungarian side, expropriation procedures were also necessary. I think I've answered all the questions. I would also like to say in this connection that the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to assist Hungarian minorities across the border. [[István Szávay: Money, it gives, besides, nothing.]] This is also what the Hungarian government does to support the Hungarian Hungarians in Slovakia. We consider this to be a task of our primary national interest to do our best. We have already done and will continue to do everything in our power to support Hungarians in Slovakia. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the proposal on the state border, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2018-06-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Supplementary Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism of the Council of Europe will follow until its closure. The government referral is T/535. available on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today in Europe and throughout the world, order and security are the most important values in the community, which determines our everyday lives and sets the conditions for our prosperity. Today, in line with the efforts of the past eight years and as a result, we can say that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and in the world today. The Government of Hungary first recognized that terrorism and illegal migration go hand in hand. The government has used and is using all means to protect and ensure Hungary's order and public security, the security of the Hungarian people. That is, of course, the case with counter-terrorism. Based on the draft budget for 2019, the government has submitted its proposal and the Parliament will start negotiations soon, the resources related to counter-terrorism measures will increase significantly, and next year we would use HUF 25 billion as proposed for this purpose. For us Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people comes first. This additional protocol before this House is directly linked to the convention announced by the other law of 2011. This is intended to supplement the provision of the Convention with the definition of certain additional acts to be criminalised, such as participation in terrorist training or participation in an association for terrorist activities. During 2016, the Council of Europe's Committee of Experts on Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing conducted an assessment of Hungary's legal and institutional system against money laundering and terrorist financing and the effectiveness of domestic practices. The Council of Europe issued recommendations to Hungary against money laundering in its country report. The Government Decision implementing the recommendations provided for a review of the possibilities for accession to the Additional Protocol. On the basis of the examination carried out, it can be concluded that the provisions of the Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, brought criminal substantive legislation into line with the requirements of the Additional Protocol. On 31 January 2018, the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism was signed. Dear Parliament, The agreement complies with Hungary's national interests, it serves the right purposes and it is timely to conclude it. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss, support and accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-20-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-20-73	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Over 330 dead and 1,300 wounded. Dead, wounded, orphans, grieving families, broken-life and brokenhearted people. Sad, but this is also part of the events of the past three years in Europe. But all life is precious. Terrorism is a freak of our social development, as Tamás Freund Prima Primissima and Professor Brain Prize winner pointed out. Migration from the Middle East and Africa to Europe has increased the continent's terrorist threat to an unprecedented extent in recent years. The perpetrators of the deadly attacks in recent years have been proven to have a migration background, or they themselves are immigrants, their parents, or their grandparents. Of the second and third generation migrants, hundreds of migrants have traveled in recent years to fight in the Middle East, participate in terrorist training and return to Europe. It is not a negligible mass at all. It is estimated that in the four most affected countries, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Belgium, there are at least 3,000 people in total. Follow-up to these people is one of the major challenges of the fight against European terrorism. In addition to the migration wave, the Council of Europe decided on a new set of standards as a result of a terrorist threat that has increasingly impacted many ET countries, and it is also symbolic that the Additional Protocol was opened for signature in autumn 2015. The fight against terrorism, extremes and radicalism has remained a priority on the organisation's agenda ever since. Although the Council of Europe also considers migration issues as a human rights organisation primarily a humanitarian problem, it has recognised that illegal migration is accompanied by dangerous accompanying phenomena such as the strengthening of terrorism. It therefore considered it necessary to further develop its existing legal instruments, to supplement the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism from an aspect which also adequately addresses the phenomenon of foreign fighters travelling to terrorist organisations for training purposes. We have also been actively involved in the group of experts working on the Convention, and we have been actively present in the ET Working Group on Terrorism ever since. It is a significant step that, in order to prevent terrorism, participation in the terrorist group and training, travel abroad for the purpose of committing terrorist acts, and their financing, organisation and promotion can be punished. The Hungarian Criminal Code already meets these criteria: 315-316. §2 of the Act deals with these cases, so there is no obstacle to the publication of the Additional Protocol. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The purpose of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, annexed to the Council of Europe, the 47 Member States based in Strasbourg, is to strengthen internal and international cooperation on the prevention of terrorism and to increase the effectiveness of international provisions on combating terrorism. The Convention introduces a number of acts aimed at preventing terrorism, terrorist training and accession to foreign terrorist groups. The Additional Protocol facilitates rapid international exchange of information through 24-hour contact points in the Member States, with the infrastructure of the Counter-Terrorism Centre in Hungary. Terrorism is a global phenomenon which is a growing threat to human life, freedom, democracy and the rule of law in Europe and worldwide. Terrorists don't choose, anyone can become a victim of terrorism. In the last two or three years, the number of acts of terrorism has increased significantly in the context of illegal immigration, even though we do not all hear about them in the Western press. Terror has become a lasting threat, and the European Union is more than ever obliged to speak with one voice in order to promote and maintain the principles underlying its existence. Action against terrorism must be stepped up, not only at national level, but also on a pan-European scale and worldwide. The cross-border nature of terrorism requires close international cooperation. A common understanding of terrorist and terrorism-related offences, which facilitate cooperation between national authorities, will contribute to further strengthening the effectiveness of criminal justice instruments and cooperation at EU and international level. The Convention and the Additional Protocol aim to increase the efforts of the Contracting Parties, to prevent terrorism and its negative effects on the full exercise of human rights, in particular the right to life, by measures taken at national and international level. [[11.30]] We believe that in recent years the government has done everything in its power to protect Hungary and to fight terrorism both at home and internationally. In particular, it is welcome that there is a further increase in security issues in the current budget proposal. We welcome this, and we will also support and strengthen this during the negotiations. In recent years, even if we think about the sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law, the law on counter-terrorism, the tightening of the criminal code, border protection and the fundamental law amendment before the House today, or the Stop Soros action plan, all aimed at strengthening and safeguarding Hungary's security, as was the accession to the Convention. Therefore, the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would have been very pleased if they had not been conducting the election campaign at this important moment, rather than talking about what they have tried to put at the heart of politics many times. This is an issue in the case of terrorism, where I believe that there is no place for an actual policy approach and there is no ground for it. I do not think that there can be a political debate on this issue, and we cannot put any focus on topical policy issues. This is about the signing of an agreement that is clearly trying to move forward with time. As terrorism itself clearly develops its technology, as it does itself and these acts are increasingly trying to have an impact on people's fear in the global world, so clearly - and rightly in my view - the Council of Europe, the Hungarian Government, the responsible bodies involved in this are also trying to move forward with time. I would have been very pleased if thoughts in the speech, either in the lead speaker of Fidesz or in the second half of the KDNP had been strengthened that, yes, we should be increasingly concerned with making it criminal if someone were to travel for the purpose of having someone involved in financing this. That is what I think we need to talk about, and we do not need to talk about terrorism and illegal migration going hand in hand, because I do not think that is relevant from this point of view. Because if you say that, then I might be forced to say that terrorism and settlement bonds go hand in hand without testing, because we can say that a lot more people came in with settlement obligations, and we can see that there was no national security investigation there, and we do not know whether, for example, what is being said and reported here in a dramatic manner is, in any case, connected. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, So my request is to be moderate in this matter, to be those who understand and feel the weight of this problem, and we are ready to support and help the government in this matter, because, yes, we consider it very important that in this 11 articles, if I remember correctly, be the earliest and the fastest possible decision. And I think it is very important - and this has also been mentioned by my fellow Members - that I will finish the thing in Article 7. So it is very important that we do not lock ourselves in this case. In many cases Hungary is making the mistake of thinking that it is smarter than everyone else and knows everything better. I think that's the question, terrorism, that goes across borders. As much as the Hungarian Government thinks it can do anything, I think that in this situation it is very important that we cooperate with other Member States. So I consider this 24-hour availability in Article 7 and cooperation with everyone in this matter to be very important. So, we are going to vote in favour of this bill, but I really sincerely ask that you leave such firecrackers to the amendment of the basic law this afternoon, and do not try to confuse this kind, otherwise I will say this once again: the debate on an extremely important issue from the point of view of humanity and Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to hold speeches by Members. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is no bill, no House, no proposal, no speech, in which it is not important to do everything in order to curb terrorism, and both our country and the citizens of Europe feel that the leaders of all governments and of all organisations who are destined to do so are responsible for the safety of Hungary, Hungarian citizens and European citizens. This additional agreement was signed in Riga on 22 October 2015, on the basis of decisions taken at the UN Security Council meeting on 24 October 2014. Once again, I humbly note that if the Council of Europe had been able to prepare and sign this convention within a year of the UN Security Council meeting, then I also consider that the amendments to the Btk., which have established that we are ratifying this Additional Protocol today, could have been done much earlier, even because the Fidesz-KDNP government can amend the Fundamental Law in two days, establish legislation affecting very serious, very broad social layers and bring it to the House. In this way, I consider that this almost three-year delay, with which we will adopt this bill, is also very long. In the process of terrorism, we can almost say that the legislators always run after terrorists and after the activities of terrorist organisations and persons. In fact, these acts of legal fact, which have been included in certain articles in the Supplement to the Convention, we hope that they may embrace the fullness of terrorism activities, but I am concerned that they may not be certain. However, it is very welcome that these elements of fact have been complemented by the Criminal Code and that we are in a position to accede to this Convention. With their position in the amendment of the basic law, the governing forces always talk about the importance of Hungary and the security of Hungarian citizens. If anything, then it is legislation of this nature, such agreements that can primarily serve the safety of Hungary's citizens, and I consider that if this force and this speed, in relation to the legislative package to be voted on this afternoon, this commitment is strengthened, then such activities, such as the prevention of terrorism or the prevention of terrorist acts, should be at least as decisive, at least as rapid and at least so sound. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-81	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank its representatives for their contributions in support of this proposal, because it is very important that this proposal is supported as widely as possible, because the fight against terrorism and the effective fight will contribute to Hungary being a safe country, Hungary and the Hungarian people being safe, and we therefore have the basic position to do much more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. That is why I referred to the government's ambitions in this regard and in this area. I would like to stress that the Government of Hungary is also doing everything in its national competence to combat terrorism, because we have set up organisations, we have increased the Counter-Terrorism Centre, Tibek, we have increased the police budget, we have strengthened the police, we are fulfilling our international obligations, we are protecting the country, we are protecting our borders, we are fulfilling our commitments under the Schengen Agreement, and this bill is also in line with Hungary's national interests. Allow me to respond to the comments of Ms Gyula Molnár, MSZP representative. [[11.40]] He asked the pro-government representatives not to fire election campaign firecrackers - citing them - not to use me here during the debate, because that is not correct - or that is not correct, or that is what he said - but he did do one. He says that no national security investigation has been carried out in the case of settlement bonds. I would also like to say here, I have answered many times here in Parliament the opposition representatives' questions that there has been a quadruple screening of each applicant, and there have been a lot of rejections when, as a result of the inspection carried out by the competent authorities, the applicant could not have received such a right, so he could not have registered such a bond, because there were circumstances which excluded it. So, Congressman, once again for the sake of truth and in reality, I would like to say that the Hungarian authorities responsible for this have carried out four-time inspections from the police to the Counter-Terrorism Centre. If I may, I do not want to discuss this here, I understand that the memories of the electoral campaign are not favourable to the Member, but the truth is that I wanted to answer this question in any case. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your support for this proposal, because it is indeed a national interest. I would also like to thank Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm for her contribution. I trust that the Jobbik Group will be able to support it, and on this very important issue, the fight against terrorism, there will be a decision that will fully meet Hungary's national interests. I would like to state one thing: for the Government of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people is the first, Hungary is the first, and we will do everything we can to ensure security in the future. Once again, I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to water abstraction until closure. The government referral is T/384. It is available to all of us on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, In principle, the proposed legislation aims at three direct objectives, in addition to protecting Hungary's underground water supply: it provides for the possibility of not having to request a specific authority permit for the use of water, for the construction and operation of water facilities; secondly, for aquatic installations where the authorisation procedure is maintained, but those concerned still have an unlicensed water extraction facility, a well, which can be legalised without paying a fine, and can subsequently settle the documentation; and the third aspect is to fix that water use can be exercised without authorisation, the basic environmental and technical operational requirements must be respected for everyone. Facilities and water use not subject to water rights authorisation are not listed in the law itself and are authorised to be determined by the government. Under the Water Management Act framework, the scope of the exemption and the relevant detailed rules will be determined by the Government Decree. However, it should be pointed out that we intend to maintain the water permit procedure in the areas covered by a limited and long-term water base and in the use of water for the use of karst water, thus protecting our drinking water bases, legally authorised mineral water production wells and thermal water springs. The bill provides for the possibility to obtain a permit for the subsequent survival of wells previously established without authorisation and subject to authorisation in the future without imposing a fine. The bill provides a ten-year moratorium on the discharge of the fine, in Hungarian: the owners concerned have ten years to legalise and settle their water supply permit. The technical and environmental legal requirements ensuring the protection of underground water resources, ensuring that water resources are not contaminated when water is removed, do not prevent the authorisation procedure from being terminated in some cases. This bill was submitted to Parliament in April 2017, but since then two laws, the Tax Act and the Land Protection Act, have been published, adopted and included a regulatory ban . These include existing rules, and a proposal for an amendment will be required to achieve coherence. With all this in mind, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Béla Dankó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-85	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/384 on the amendment of the laws before you in relation to water abstraction. Legislative bill No. 1 will soon bring an end to a long-standing issue involving people and farmers living in villages and farms. The fundamental objective of this Regulation, as mentioned in the State Secretary's expozee, is to clarify to farmers with existing unauthorized wells what they should do in relation to the legal settlement of the issue of their aquatic installations, as well as the establishment of a regulation that provides for the possibility of carrying out neither authorisation nor notification procedures for the use of water, the construction and operation of water facilities. I would like to stress that, for the time being, the motion only provides for the authorisation, exemption from authorisation and possible reimbursement of sums already paid for the use of drilled wells for domestic water supply, garden irrigation and watering of domestic animals. Having confirmed Mr State Secretary, I would also like to emphasise that this provision and its implementation should not jeopardise the interests of the protection of water resources. The authorisation obligation remains reserved in the case of water abstraction in the environment of cold and thermal karst stocks, irrespective of its depth and water volume, and also regardless of depth and volume of water, in the case of abstraction for economic purposes, which should be regulated in our opinion by another detailed legislation. It is well-known that there is a living legislation that imposes an obligation until 31 December 2018 on all those who have known, licensed or unlicensed drilled wells in the environment of their household. Our urgent task is to amend and implement this legislation as soon as possible. It is necessary to settle this situation as soon as possible by amending legislation, because if we do not settle it, a lot of people could be in a difficult situation. Knowing farmers, producers, people living in the village and farmhouse, who own typically only one utility that actually exists, the water facility in question, the well, because there is no water line or drainage, in many places even electricity, would actually be in a situation that would endanger their living conditions as of 1 January 2019. We know many of these affected areas in Békés, Csongrád, Bács-Kiskun, but we can safely say that even in the southern part of Pest County or Szolnok County. Much of the country's agricultural area is affected by this issue, and the extension of the moratorium which is due to expire is therefore justified and necessary. We believe that this motion may also serve to answer the question that many people are debating, whether there are many wells in domestic environments in Hungary, whether they are licensed or not. [[11.50]] Indeed, knowledge of this would be necessary, but perhaps with this ease of procedure we can take the road to the discovery by the owners of these drilled wells to the authorities and water experts without any difficulty or threat. I would definitely like to mention the importance and support of growing in backyard gardens. By simplifying and facilitating legislation, we want to encourage people living in rural areas to cultivate their gardens, because home garden foods are, in addition to their high value, healthy raw materials for their own household. I am sure that access to simple water use will also have a positive impact on the spread of farm management in residential gardens. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the T/381 in front of you. The adoption of the bill, which represents another step towards creating conditions for efficient irrigation and significantly helps people working on farmland farming. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-20-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have significant concerns about this bill, not only because, as usual, no impact assessment has been carried out on the effects of such a measure on our groundwater bases, but also because practically only on the basis of popularity, laws that could have a significant impact on, among other things, future generations' rights and living conditions. In fact, the government admits that it has no means of mapping or regulating who and under what conditions, establishes a water extraction work or a well from an underground water base, and today these wells are set up for virtually thousands or ten thousand unchecked in Hungary. Since we do not know where and under what conditions these wells have been established, we cannot be sure that through these wells there will be no pollution of the drinking water base. This law also violates two fundamental rights when adopted in this form: on the one hand, the right to protection of our national heritage, our drinking water, our water bases, the Fundamental Law, and, on the other hand, the right to healthy drinking water - also enshrined in the Fundamental Law - is violated in this way. After all, the right to healthy drinking water in Hungary is not always fulfilled, especially in the southern lowland region, where due to its high arsenic content it is not possible to provide healthy drinking water everywhere, of course not to mention the water used for agricultural purposes. On the other hand, there is a great risk that these drinking water collection works, as well as uncontrolled wells in the country, will be contaminated by the water bases themselves, as Dr. Gyula Bándi, deputy ombudsman responsible for future generations, explained in his letter or resolution on this bill, that in Hungary more than half of the wells for drinking water collection are less than 80 metres deep, so where the country's drinking water supply comes from, more than half of it is less than 80 metres shallow, in Hungarian: it is affected by this bill, since any of the more shallow wells that have been deepened without authorisation can potentially contaminate these drinking water sites. And what we do know is that if we pollute a drinking water base, it can be cleaned up either at a very high cost, or it can't be at all. One of our greatest treasures is the still large quantity and plenty of available, high quality drinking water. I think that this is in the interests of all parties, and obviously sustainability is a matter of interest and interest above parties, but the protection of our drinking water base - as the protection of our only remaining national treasure - I think it is not a question that it should not be subject to any other aspect. Of course, we also agree that it is very important for people living in the countryside to produce healthy food in their backyard gardens, under the best possible conditions, and that they can guarantee proper irrigation from shallow underground water collection works in Hungarian so that they are not prevented from watering through drilled wells, or there are even wells dug in many places. This is a living thing in the countryside everywhere in Hungary, and it must be maintained, because without it Hungarian agriculture, especially family farming, small house-to-house seedlings, would be at great risk. Obviously, the supply of healthy food is a fundamental thing in Hungary, which is basically an agricultural country, so no one wants to take that right away from people living and farming in the countryside. On the other hand, the other side of the scale, the other pan of the scale, is very serious, that if we do not pay attention, if we do not check, if these abstractions do not take place in a regulated way, then there may be a contamination of these water bases that is irreversible. So for this reason, and for the fact that several professional organisations, including the Association of Water well drills, have expressed concern about this bill, and once again, Professor Gyula Bándi, the deputy ombudsman responsible for future generations and many other professional organisations, which is why, on the basis of common sense, we cannot support this proposal in this form. Although we can see the intention of at least trying to resolve the situation of people with such wells on paper, formally, but the question is whether they are actually settling it. In fact, is it directing, or is it creating even more chaos by not connecting the shallowest wells to a permit? Everyone is obviously afraid and afraid of having such a well at the moment, that if he announces it and it is registered, even on the property's property, he may be subject to various charges, fees, fines by putting this water extraction work in the public authority's sight. But this is one extreme, this is one side of fear. The other side is the fear that the uncontrolled abstraction of water is putting water resources at risk, and this is not only about contamination, but also about the uncontrolled amount of water abstraction. Because a common body of water should know how many people have built wells on that body of water and how much water abstraction is happening there, because not only can it make their own abstraction impossible, but, especially if it is related to groundwater, the state of vegetation in the area is also threatened by an excessive abstraction of water, an uncontrolled amount of water abstraction. So there's got to be a way to fix this, to fix it. We would also like this not to be a financial burden for the well builders, especially, I would like to say once again, for small amounts of wells that have been created for family and home use. I don't know the 80 meters, because they've justified his professional justification for drawing that line at 80 meters. It seems a bit much to me, although I do remember that I have an environmental engineering degree, but I don't call myself an expert in this area. Maybe there's a reason, and there's probably a reason why 80 meters is 80 meters. However, I think that most of these farmhouse wells, the wells drilled at 20, 30, 40, 50 meters, do not go any deeper, because water bases are available in these depths almost everywhere in Hungary. So, in expressing our concerns, I can say, on behalf of the largest opposition group, that we cannot support this bill in this form, and our concerns have been raised for the long-term security of our water resources. We would like to start with this, and I will end with this, if the drinking water base, our underground water base, Hungary is perhaps the greatest natural resource for future generations at the moment. With its sustainable use, we could ensure that we meet the expectations of future generations both qualitatively and quantitatively. And, of course, the present generations, i.e. Hungarians now living on equal terms, could have access to drinking water in an equally good quality, and of course, the price is not the last consideration that it is at a favourable price. [[12.00]] Although I know that this proposal is not about drinking water wells, but, of course, as I have just mentioned or justified, it also affects them and, in the long term, may have a serious impact on the supply of drinking water. So let's protect our underground water bases. Please submit a law to the National Assembly, which has taken place after consultation with professional organisations, a bill based on appropriate impact assessments, which will provide a solution to the problems of those with wells and, at the same time, will not endanger our water bases, and we will be able to support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-06-20-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, who spoke before me, has said a lot of things, which is really an aspect that is very important in this matter. I would basically say that there are three aspects to be considered in relation to the specific problem: on the one hand, the issue of legal certainty, with which there have been very serious problems in the case of drilled wells in recent years, on the other hand, what has been said is the protection of the drinking water base, and, on the third, the right of all Hungarians to proper drinking water. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to briefly mention all three aspects; firstly, legal certainty. It has been said to me - and I can fully agree with that - that there should have been appropriate impact assessments in this respect, and that this specific regulation in this form could have caused problems in Hungary. Be timely and clear regulation. This can be agreed, however, a problem that has been present in the public discourse in recent years - which, let us confess, and it is true, of course, that a lot of people have lived as an emergency - has actually been pushed out by ten years, and it is not clear what direction the resolution of the issue is going on. The protection of the drinking water base should also be mentioned, as during the moratorium, those who may potentially pollute the drinking water base or, where appropriate, take out water for a very serious economic purpose. At the same time, in one place, this proposal contains domestic water demand as a definition, but in recent years it has not been possible to spell out exactly what domestic water needs are and what economic water needs are. In the long term, it can be said that, even until the proposal is finally addressed, it may be a question of whether, where appropriate, it is a domestic demand for water to be produced at home and, by the way, to take out a small quantity of crops on the market as an original producer. If so, this can certainly settle the question of many. But if they also understand this as an economic need for water, growing tomatoes in their garden and selling small quantities, then this could be a very serious problem later. This is not specifically mentioned in this proposal, but they want to regulate a lot of things in government regulations, and I am also concerned about our experience so far in this regard. The right to adequate drinking water on the line. In many settlements in Hungary this is not guaranteed to Hungarian people, it has been said that there are areas where there is a particular problem. But I think that the state would have very serious responsibilities in this area, that very serious sums should be spent from the budget in order to guarantee the right to proper drinking water. We don't see these as being properly secured year after year, so I think that regulation and this 80-metre rule... - why exactly 80 meters could be discussed, of course, but there may be areas where access to adequate drinking water may be hindered later. One word, like a hundred, three interests have to be met at the same time, this has not been successful in years, it has not been possible to regulate the legislation in order to protect the drinking water base, but in recent years it has not been possible to guarantee all Hungarians the right to proper drinking water. There are a lot of questions about the bill, so I think it is still necessary to amend and clarify it in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-20-90	Thank you, Congressman László Varga. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the mayor of the political group.
u2018-06-20-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, We have long known that, based on the expected effects of climate change, our country belongs to a range of highly sensitive and vulnerable countries. Any delay or bad decision involves risking our lives and possessions. It is no coincidence that one of the aims of the 2012 amendment to the Climate Change Act was to promote effective management of changing circumstances, prevention and remediation of damage. It is regrettable that, while the relevant professional institutions had already prepared the new national climate change strategy by 2015, Parliament has not yet been able to discuss it, while its key element, which fundamentally affects adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change, is bombing Parliament with proposals that are contrary to the global, EU and domestic targets. It must be said that this amendment makes it possible to rob and loot uncontrollable domestic groundwater resources. Despite the fact that the proposal only talks about domestic water demand, it does not define the extent of the proposal. The revision of the national river basin management plan has also shown that illegal drilled wells are one of the greatest threats in lowland areas, both quantitatively and qualitatively. This would now be legalized, while they have not been able to effectively control illegal well drilling and water extraction activities in the past. Notification/licensing exemption up to 80 metres may already endanger drinking water bases and excessive water extraction may absorb water from adjacent land. There is a professional consensus on the dangers and problems of free well drilling up to 80 metres - you know that. This is clearly reflected in the Resolution of the National Water Management Council of 29 May 2017. But the Foundation for the Waters of the Surface, the Hungarian National Member of the International Association of Hydrogeologists, the Hungarian Hydrological Society, the Association of Hungarian Water well drills, the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, the Hungarian Association of Water utilities, all of them, are professional organizations with high professional competence in this field. This cannot be ignored by the legislator. There used to be numbers-defined depth values in drilling legislation. The depth of drilling is a critical environmental value because its risk is increasing with depth. Based on previous regulations, drilling at a depth of more than 50 metres is deep drilling. Prior geological preparation for its establishment, authorisation and compliance with the rules for the collection and documentation of geological information generated by drilling were the main means of risk reduction. Information obtained during drilling is also essential to prevent contamination of the water tax layer. Free well drilling also exempts you from learning. The problem of water production, such as pollution or degradation, also becomes completely unwieldy by the owner of the well. It is also unwitting if others close to the well create a water-producing well, as the situation may arise that both well-owners are in bad shape. In this connection, I would like to quote the position of the spokesperson for future generations on this subject, who has also repeatedly spoken against the amendments to the law:, It should be pointed out that there is no difference between the interests of the present and future generations, since the quantitative and qualitative protection of our waters means the preservation of water that is essential for life. If a water facility could be set up without authorisation and notification, the State would not be able to comply with its obligation under the Fundamental Law, would be unable to take protective measures without which healthy drinking water could not be provided to the general public, would not prevent water contamination or the spread of existing impurities, the fair distribution of water in areas already lacking water. [[12.10]] It should continue to be emphasised that it is only a system based on the principles of prevention and precautionary action that ensures the performance of public tasks and provides a guarantee of responsibility. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It also pointed out that the social tension created by the revision of the wells cannot be dealt with by abolishing the obligation to authorise or notify the Fundamental Law, as it raises constitutional concerns regarding the prohibition of withdrawal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In its resolution, therefore, it proposed that the government assess the social, economic and environmental consequences of removing and repairing wells in an inadequate place or in a way, and the means, measures and measures to prevent negative impacts. In LMP's view, instead, we have the following tasks to prepare for climate change, rather than harming the public interest, the interests of the few. The national climate strategy should be discussed as soon as possible; increased protection of the quantity and quality of groundwater resources that represent the nation's strategic water reserve, its efficient use, and the monitoring of changes in its quantitative and qualitative stocks; an increase in the storage of precipitation in soil; the retention and storage of surface water by implementing a flat- and hilly storage programme, and a safety policy, coordinated with nature and landscape management, should be implemented. Field and forestry activities should be carried out in accordance with the conditions of the region, and water use should be regulated and authorised in strict provision should be made for saving, over-use prevention, environmental and cost-effectiveness. In the case of irrigation farming, state-of-the-art water-saving solutions should be promoted. All these objectives are set out in the national environmental programme adopted by the Government, the Kvassay Jenő Plan, which is a water management strategy and the national river basin management plan, which you will certainly remember, and to which this proposal is completely contrary. I would like the rapporteur to resolve this conflict in some way and to respond to my speech now. Not least, it is also unacceptable that the moratorium on penalty-free licensing will be pushed ten years from 31 December 2018 for illegally established water installations which continue to provide for water abstraction subject to authorisation. This would also apply to water extraction facilities established after 3 June 2016 without authorisation or otherwise. This reward of sabotage of compliance violates all law-abiding and erodes democracy based on the legal system, if that bothers you, of course. More importantly, the monitoring of groundwater resources, the use of water to maximize savings and efficiency, and the reduction of individual water robbery that violates public wealth and public interest are needed. The LMP will therefore vote clearly and firmly against the present draft law which violates the Fundamental Law. You said - and let me put it this way - that Hungary's safety is the first. I think that if Hungary's safety is the first, ensuring safe water supply is one of the first steps. Please stick to this. Thank you very much. (Applause from the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.
u2018-06-20-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-20-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Surprisingly, we agree on a lot of things. We agree that what has been incorporated into the Fundamental Law itself is that our water resources and healthy drinking water must be protected, our common treasure and the right to do so is a fundamental human right. We also agree that it is not a condition that, as today's water removal, the situation of well drilling shows that nine out of ten cases of this thing are illegal, without any professional control, this is unsustainable, and we need regulation. In fact, we also agree that we need regulation that does not make life difficult for ordinary people, yet it is able to protect our water resources and protect the right to healthy drinking water. This would now be a government task, my dear ladies and gentlemen - most importantly, gentlemen, as I look at the government - so it would be a government task, where it would be necessary to make sure that the goat is well fed and that the cabbage remains. It's just that you don't have the ability to govern, you don't have the talent. What they have talent for is the destruction of public wealth, the destruction of democracy, the destruction of the courts, the independence of the judiciary, or the restriction of the right of assembly, so that I do not continue with the destruction of civil society organisations and other activities in which you are very talented. However, when work is needed, we should consult stakeholders, representatives of professions, and create a regulation that would really be useful and can satisfy all aspects that sometimes conflict with each other, then they themselves are failing. They're failing to govern. And what do they do then? They're throwing the reins between the horses. This is the lassez-faire liberalism that you guys whip the most when the state is unable, in this case the Fidesz state, the Fidesz party state, to carry out the regulation normally, instead of saying, "Oop, I'll put my hand on it, and then whatever happens." I would like to ask you to have a chat with János Áder, because, if there is anything, the thoughts of the President of the Republic in managing our water resources are certainly worthy of attention and respect. I am very curious that if you accept this bill in this form, will the President of the Republic sign it. It is certain that the Dialogue Group will not support this in the vote. Thank you.
u2018-06-20-94	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see anyone applying for a two-minute speech. No names have been published on the screen for other speakers. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2018-06-20-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I thank you for the comment which agrees and supports the intentions of the draft law. At the same time, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that groundwater wells, wells drilled in low depth, have been created over the last decades, and that, according to the regulations that have been in force to date, they have always been obligated to report, but they have failed to check them and have not made the necessary announcements. The government considers it very important that we move forward to protect groundwater, and that is why we consider it important that all the wells prepared or prepared to intervene in the drinking water base can only be established by obtaining appropriate professional permits. At the same time, there are actually tens of thousands of water collection works, mainly used to irrigate gardens, which have not been reported in recent decades. The government's objective is clearly to make this possible at the lowest possible cost or, where possible, free of charge for owners, to be mapable and to be indicated as a hazard point source. Moreover, the opposition's comments show the dilemma that while they want to act professionally and as a protector of the future water supply, they are also trying to make people feel that they would not expect a financial burden. [[12.20]] By the way, this goes against the previous discussion of the draft law when this draft legislation was attacked from a completely different point of view. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-20-96	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's general debate. I'm taking a 15-hour break. At 15 o'clock, we will continue our work with decisions. (Recess: 12.21-15.07) President: Dr. János Latorcai Notes: József Móring Attila and Bence Tordai)
u2018-06-20-97	Welcome, fellow Members. The meeting will continue with the 15-hour resolution section. Please take your seats, check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine, so that there is no reason why you should be able to cast your vote properly. Following is the T/387 on the authorisation and publication of the mandatory scope of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I respectfully ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/387. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, of the other part, and the Protocols attached thereto, are being published. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/396/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/396 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Arab Republic of Egypt, of the other part, and the Protocols attached thereto, are being published. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/397/2/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/397 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/398 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. [[15.10]] It follows that the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, is to be published to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/399 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 180 votes, 9 votes against and 2 abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, and the Protocols attached thereto, T/401. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/401 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 183 votes against, 8 against and without abstentions. Dear House, The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. T/335. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the proposed legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/335 accepts it. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 190 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/335 accepts it. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 190 votes in favour, without voting against, with one abstention. Dear House, The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law will be followed by T/332. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/332/11 and T/332/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 3 and 6. That's what we decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Márton Gyöngyösi and his fellow Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 137 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Márton Gyöngyösi and his fellow Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 137 against and without abstention. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Márton Gyöngyösi and his fellow Members. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 136 against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/332/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 160 votes to five, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. [[15.20]] I would once again like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/332/14 on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. A single proposal. Please vote according to your big two-thirds rating. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's proposal by 159 votes in favour [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] , 5 against, without abstentions accepted. Dear House, It follows that T/333 on the amendment of certain laws relating to measures to combat illegal immigration follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/333/8. T/333/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 2 of the Dialogue Group, the Group of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 2 is proposed by Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 159 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Ádám Mirkóczki and Márton Gyöngyösi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 152 against and 1 abstention. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/333/8 of the Fidesz Group A separate vote was initiated on points 1, 3, 10, 13 and 14 of the proposed amendment and also points 7 and 8 of the amendment. First, we will decide on the points requested for a separate vote and then on the rest of the proposal. Accordingly, we are deciding on the adoption of point 1 of the summarised amendment proposal requested for a separate vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/333/8. Point 1 which requires a majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 1 of the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on points 3, 10, 13 and 14 of the summary amending proposal, which require a simple majority. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/333/8. Point 3, 10, 13 and 14 of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points of the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 18 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on points 7 and 8 in conjunction with a simple majority requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/333/8. Points 7 and 8 of its summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points of the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point 2 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/333/8. Point 2, which requires a majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 2 of the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on points 4 and 5 in conjunction with point 2 of the summarised amendment, which require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/333/8. Points 4 and 5 of its summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points of the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/333/8. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/333/12. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/333/12. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 160 votes in favour, 18 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/333/12. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 159 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstention. Dear House, The T/402 on the announcement of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the purchase of diplomatic property Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. [[15.30]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/402 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 176 votes against, 8 votes against, without abstention. It follows now that the T/407 on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Finland is now under way. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/407 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 187 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that the T/408 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information is being published. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/408 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 181 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows the T/409 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/409/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the House's network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/409 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 186 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that the T/410 of the Protocol between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is being published. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/410 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 184 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasimita Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, is being published to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/411. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 184 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, It follows now that the Protocol to the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, is being published to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/412. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 183 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that on Monday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles with the title T/20. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 24 votes in favour, 133 against and 17 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by the head of the Tóth Bertalan MSZP group and its fellow Members, T/13 on the implementation procedures of financial institutions based on foreign exchange and forint consumer credit agreements. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 130 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your understanding. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all my fellow Members who are leaving now to do so as quickly as possible, and those who want to stay, to take their seats so that we can continue our work. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear House, We'll get back to work. As we have finished today's agendas, we will naturally have post- Agenda speeches. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members, with all due respect, that those who wish to remain here on the subject after the agenda should take their seats, and those who leave because of their other urgent, important official duties, should now do so as quickly as possible. [[15.40]] Colleagues, we now have the speeches after the agenda. Mr Sándor Székely, from the DK faction, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Is this the work-based society? It's an address. Congressman Székely has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. I would also ask my fellow Members to listen quietly to the speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-20-98	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. Orbán said six years ago that he does not want a welfare state, but a work-based society in the country. It soon turned out that this was not about protecting the rights of working people or improving their working conditions, but on the contrary. This government has adopted a labor law that could have been created by the leaders of companies who exploit their employees the most. Your goal was not to make it worth your while to work in this country so that the work would be honoured again. No! In order to do that, we would have had to reduce taxes on labour, raise wages, strengthen workers' rights, educate, retrain unemployed people and public workers. And I'm not saying this because it's all part of the Democratic Coalition's agenda, but because that's what every government that wants to keep hundreds of thousands from fleeing Hungary should do. Yet you have done the opposite, banishing more Hungarians from this country than the Russian tanks did in 1956. It's quite an achievement, it takes talent to do this kind of damage. Listen carefully to what I'm saying. You have not created a work-based society, but an exploitation-based society. This is why we have an unprecedented shortage of workers. Look around the country. They're looking for workers everywhere: the bakery, the bakery, the post office, the BKV, the Volánbusz, the MÁV, the Balaton, everywhere, and I could tell you where else. You said: why strengthen workers' rights if we can take them away? They said, "Why reduce taxes on work if we can become record-breakers?" In this way, we may be able to bring in some companies who would not even set foot in Europe, because they know that European workers cannot do everything they can. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian workers can't do everything either. That is why there is a shortage of almost all professions in the country; besides the Deputy State Secretary and the Ministerial Commissioners, of course, I see that there is enough of them. Do you know how long it takes Lőrinc Mészáros to earn a monthly Hungarian average wage? In a minute, fellow Members, in one minute! As long as the Hungarians work, the Prime Minister's stooge earns 180 thousand forints per minute; 11 million per hour, 274 million forints per day. I barely spoke here two minutes ago, and Lőrinc Mészáros earned 360,000 forints. In that time, an average Hungarian worker earns 8 forints or 8 forints. Viktor Orbán's stróman earns 45 000 times as much as an ordinary Hungarian worker. Is this a work-based society, fidesz colleagues? ! Are we there yet? Is this country built on decent work? But there is another big difference between the average Hungarian and the Fidesz lords: you wrote in the Labour Code that workers can be called back from their freedom; about the freedom they worked for for a year and saved to leave with their families. This has been written in the labour code, and I quote: it is an exceptionally important economic interest that, for reasons directly and seriously affecting the operation, the employer may interrupt the employee's pre-arranged and released leave. Do you know what exceptionally important economic interests mean? Of course they know it could mean anything. Just as you are staying away from Parliament on the grounds of the urgent public task, if you do not want to change it, you can blame it on everything. You have literally written in the labor code that workers can be recalled from the freedom agreed in advance and paid. Again, I would like to ask the members of the government: is this a work-based society? Is it worth working here, and is this how we compete with European wages, where wages are 2-3-4-5 thousand euros? Or what happened again, as in everything else: you talk, you promise, you come up with big plans, and you managed to destroy what this country has fought to its teeth and nails in 27 years. If they're gonna go back to the past eight years, or they're gonna go back to playing ball, we're gonna know it's true. If not, return to the state of the Labour Code before 2012. Hungarian workers would be very happy about this as well. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Where's the government? Where's the government?]] In Hungary, childbearing is equal to poverty, after the agenda, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm applied from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would now take the hands of those eight Fidesz Members virtually, and lead them to that part of society where they have not been for a long time, and which they have forgotten to monitor in eight years. In Hungary, the lives of families with two children are equal to poverty, even if there is already a tax benefit for children, even if there is a family allowance. How am I supposed to do that? I'm setting up a family model now. The father graduated from ELTE TTK physics mathematics ten years ago as a high school teacher. The mother worked at a medical college, a social institution serving pensioners. They both have higher education. Are their activities useful to society? Yeah. Have you lived a life of need, studied diligently, tried to become a useful member of society, decent, honest people? Yeah. These two people are entitled to the following salary: 250,000 gross payments to the father, 178,000 HUF gross payments to the mother. If the two people had no children, the two of them would have a net HUF 300,000 after tax. But after having a child, two of them - say, six and eight years old - even though they receive a family tax allowance, and even if two of them receive a family allowance of HUF 26 600, they will not have more net than HUF 70,000 per child. The family income per person is 70,000 forints. If you look at the statement of the KSH, if these two people do not have children, then the necessary expenditure for each person is 105,000 forints, the four-person family with two children per person, without which they could not exist, 75 thousand forints. In any case, with the children there would be 30,000 forints a month for accumulation, special classes, art education, some kind of developmental activity that they might be able to go to a higher education institution. If there were two of them, they would have at least 50 thousand forints per person per month to accumulate and serve their own cultural and possibly travel needs. What is the consequence of this, honourable members of the government, honourable House? What follows from this is that despite learning to live a demanding young life, despite completing a university and college, despite the fact that his work is essential for society, you still reward them with a salary that, if you take on two children, still puts them in the poverty category. And even though you say that day by day, week by week, Secretary of State Rétvári, those statistics, those increases, the sums that you feel can reassure the soul of the government and the ruling parties, these figures are facts. These are today's facts, data collected from today's public service payroll based on today's CSF data, and thus the real life that you have not seen in the last eight years because you have buried yourself in a bubble. [[15.50]] Only the numbers are talking about the arrogant, fantastic increases, devoted family support programmes in this House, at least since I am here in any case, and when we look at the specifics, when we look at the life-style people that we have to take care of and think about the most in this House, that is the result. With all due respect, investment in cymbals, unwarranted sports investments that do not produce any results, billions of billions of dollars are spent, and if this family model I've put before you, if you could appreciate this family model, without whom your children will not be educated, without whom your parents will not be cared for by anyone in the institutions, that is to say, we trust them with our greatest treasures... - so unfairly hired. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech on the agenda will follow with a title from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[György Szilágyi will take his place in the notary seat.]]
u2018-06-20-102	Mr President, Dear House, When the Jobbik faction decided to address the government today's speech on the most serious issue of our country, the population disaster, after several agendas, we had a strange hope that there would be secretary-general or even ministers sitting against us, but we must say that unfortunately there is no one present on the part of the government when we dissect this priority issue. I would like to say that, as a budgetary period is approaching, Jobbik is preparing with a comprehensive package, along with a number of previous amendments, in order to prevent a population disaster, but although the government rejects these proposals in order and characteristically, there would be Conventional points where I feel that the government could show openness, and if this problem is really important to Jobbik, in addition to rejecting Jobbik's initiatives on the rental scheme, its initiatives on the settlement of their situation for credit victims, let me recommend to them an association with a high public benefit and a nationwide operation, the Alpha Alliance, on which Jobbik has already submitted several occasions a proposal for amending the budget support of this organisation, which would not only raise its budget support, but, in any case and on my part, actually increase without a limit. We can say that the organisation, which has been operating for more than 15 years, has been engaged in a very specific activity, which has been enriched by the work and work of the otherwise predominantly voluntary ladies. On the one hand, it shows ways of life in order to alleviate mother's crisis, and since they have handled more than 41,000 cases in almost a decade and a half, let us look at the outcome. 402 of our caregivers, this is a data from a year and a half ago, she avoided abortion, from women helped out of the crisis, from women to mothers, and I would also like to say that 432 women with secret pregnancies were able to help by giving birth and birth to unwanted children in health care facilities and in non-threatening loneliness. I would also like to point out that, essentially working on its own, this organization has compiled aid for more than 3,800 poor families from children's clothing and child care articles, and if we look at a country called neighbouring Slovakia, which boasts 5.3 million inhabitants, we can see that, over HUF 33 million can be supported by an organisation with similar goals, and we can see that, unfortunately, it has fallen below 10 million, the support of similar organisations and associations in the present Hungary is not only low, but quite simply lacking. I believe that, given that there are literally hundreds of opposition proposals in every budget debate, and that Fidesz-KDNP does not accept any of them in the most unfortunate years, I do not think that there is a flaw in the whole set of opposition representatives and that there would be net insanity in all that they are putting forward here, which is why I would make a proposal to the government. If you can support the association and the like I have listed, you will steal the amendment to this from us, submit it under your own name, and we will vote on it together with Jobbik's faction, because before 2010, we have made a promise to support each initiative that will improve the fate of this country and this nation, which will serve this improvement. But I have to say that in such very clear cases, when we are talking not only about Hungarian reproduction, but about a functioning organization that can give Hungarian lives to Hungary in substance, I do not really see any contradiction, I do not really see any circumstances that arise that could not provide budget support to such an association, not only in the most important but perhaps in the most important area. We will have a number of similar amendments during the budgetary debates, but I would like to point out that there are some issues where we should simply not measure, we should not risk Hungarian lives for party policy reasons. Therefore, I do not ask, I do not call on, but I demand that the government either directly support this better proposal, or if it does not do so, submit it under its own name, and I, we will support this, because there is no more important issue than Hungarian survival. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. What does the government do for Hungary's security? Mr Demeter, from the group of the LMP, spoke after the agenda entitled "2'. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that there is no one here on the part of the government who can answer our questions after the agenda, and I very much hope that if nothing else, they will be able to do so in writing and will do so, because they have the opportunity to do so. We also have to say here, especially after today, that Hungary's security is the most important thing for us, but unfortunately we see that it is not for the government, because, for example, a bill has now been voted in this House by the majority, which, by means of an amendment to a criminal law book, is trying to cosmeticize Hungarian legislation, but does not contribute substantially to Hungary's security, and in addition to the fact that you spoke in the explanatory statement of this bill about the need to combat illegal migration, this proposal did not include any further progress in this regard. For us, it is essential that we fight illegal migration, and it is precisely the government's responsibility to take the fundamental steps to base not only on short-term, possibly ad hoc police or police measures, but also on a challenge, a globalisation process and a trend that will put us in a much bigger challenge, a trend that needs to be addressed specifically in the medium and long term. We do not hear from the government any substantive proposals on how, for example, they intend to strengthen the European Union in order to alleviate conflicts and difficulties arising from regional differences outside its borders, how Hungary is involved in this, what assistance it provides to the issuing countries, which is a substantial help, and to prevent the strengthening of this process. We hear nothing from the government about whether they support the strengthening of Frontex, the European Border Protection Agency, at the real, executive stock level, or whether you support radically increased security and defence resources in the next budget of the European Union. There is nothing the government will say about this, and we would like to continue to hear your views on it, because unfortunately, in action they have little to show for it. So it is not yet apparent what kind of ideas they have in the medium to long term to solve this problem and to participate in it. Moreover, it is a huge problem that you yourself have opened huge holes in Hungary's security system with government measures, and we can now say that Hungary's security system has been dismantled. I would like to give you a few concrete examples: 20 thousand people with settlement bonds have been granted a life-long residence permit without having undergone any substantive security checks, and in several cases it has been proved that they have been specifically granted Hungarian residence permits, which allow them to move freely both in Hungary and in the Schengen area. [[16.00]] Last time, the money launderer of the Aszad regime found out that he bought the bond without any problems, the Hungarian authorities let him into Hungary, and since then it has not come up in government-led bodies and government to initiate proceedings on his own initiative and to withdraw a criminal's residence permit. This, I would like to emphasise once again, should be done ex officio. I would like to bring here the case of Ghaith Pharaon, who was also wanted for terrorist financing, an international criminal. In essence, the Hungarian authorities turned a blind eye to the things they were wearing and came to Hungary with Zaid Naffa, the honorary Consul of Jordan, who is also a national security risk, helping him to do so. Why did they let Ghaith Pharaon come here even though he was wanted by the FBI? To do business with Viktor Orbán's family. I would like to bring here the case of Szilárd Kiss, who failed twice on the national security screening, and yet he could be an agricultural attaché in Russia at the Hungarian embassy, who, by the way, issued 800 visas per month to unknown Russian citizens, where it turns out that numerous criminals had received visas for Hungary, so we are talking about the issue of thousands of such visas. Szilárd Kiss had a free hand in this. I would also like to bring here the issue of simplified localisation, where, by the way, you have not been able to provide minimum guarantees in the legislation to prevent organised criminal groups from abusing it. Therefore, all such authorisations should be reviewed and all authorisations for establishment should be reviewed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which has been issued with the settlement bond structure, must be withdrawn. If you don't do that, it's an eloquent proof that you're selling the country's security. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-20-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. At the same time, according to Fidesz, they are at the historic peak of Hungarian-Serbian relations, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, who has applied for a post-op address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-20-106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At yesterday's meeting of the Parliament of Vojvodina, it was decided that on 25 November, one of the milestones of the Hungarian community in the south of Hungary living in the land of its ancestors, there will be a holiday in the province, when the Serbian People's Assembly in Novi Sad declared the break-up of the southern areas of our country in 1918. By the way, they did so by making up only a third of the population at the time in the areas they requested. But this parliamentary decision kicked another one into the Hungarians: on 1 December, the day of the separation of Transylvania, it also made it a celebration of Vojvodina at the request of the Romanians in Serbia. Why didn't it become a holiday at least 15 March or 20 August? We may not be so surprised at the Serbian-Romanian anti-Hungarian cooperation, but this is not the first example in history, but it is quite outrageous that the proposal quoting the time of the Kisantant was proudly supported by the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, the local branch organization of Fidesz, but it may not be exaggerating if I consider them more of a vassal party. Yeah, they're proud of this treason, there's no better word for that. Not only did the Hungarian government not object to the anti-Hungarian provocation, but in the opinion of many, it was you who instructed the VMSZ not to impose on the Hungarian-Serbian relations at the historic peak, according to Péter Szijjártó. If so, then it is an amazing disgrace to you, my fellow members of the Government, who are already in the Chamber; and if not, and if the VMSZ has spit on the Hungarians of its own good faith, it is an even greater betrayal. Fidesz still tolerates the multi-party system at home, but not outside. Organisations and individuals outside their own clientele are not even willing to listen to their opinions, whatever it is. For the sake of the example of the Democratic Community of Hungarian Vojvodina and the Hungarian Movement, he has repeatedly pointed out that the Serbian power is preparing to severely reduce the powers of the Hungarian National Council. The decision-making powers of MNT will not remain in any case at all, but the powers of opinion would be limited to certain areas, the rights to use languages would also be limited, and I mentioned only the harshest examples at that time. However, Fidesz does not have a word for it, just as the VMSZ is collaborating with Serbian power in this case. [[György Szilágyi is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] But Fidesz still refuses to listen to or even speak to the signals of VMDK and MM supported by a quarter of Hungarian people in southern Hungary. These two organisations are also excluded from the basic forums of Hungarian-Hungarian dialogue, with the stated reason that they started in a local election with a minority Croatian party. Interestingly, it is no longer such a problem for Fidesz to delegate a Serbian representative to the local city council in Belgrade. Running together with Croatians is a problem, but it is not a problem, and it is even desirable to govern with the Hungarian anti-Hungarian Serb's extreme right. Why doesn't the VMSZ qualify as a mixed party? I'll tell you, fellow Members. Only because they are indebted to the current Hungarian government. This is a number of examples of the fact that Fidesz's national policy is in the least consistent. You follow only one principle: who sleeps 100 percent for you and who is the least critical and who makes explanations and reasons on this basis. All Hungarians are not important to you at all. You are not looking at national interests, but only party political aspects, and we are used to this at home. It's very sad that they're doing the same thing in national politics. Therefore, the VMSZ is also allowed to compromise as a member of the Serbian government coalition and to lay low the most fundamental interests of the Hungarian community in connection with the resettlements. Yes, we are talking about introductions, because Hungarian settlements in southern Hungary continue to be occupied by Gypsies who have fled Kosovo, most of whom are native-speaking and Muslim-religious Gypsies. At present, Martonos is the most seriously affected settlement, and against this frightening process, the Hungarian government does not have a single word against it, which is deeply outrageous because we see how the anti-immigrant campaign is taking place and how the campaign is raging in Hungary, but when it comes to violent changes in ethnic relations between Hungarian villages in the South, you do not have a word for this because the VMSZ is part of the Serbian coalition, and they do not consider this price too expensive for money and power for their silence and cooperation with Serbian power. Ladies and gentlemen, Your national policy has become infinitely simple and uniform. The money is poured into the outside, often in a way that is completely uncontrollable, and the votes are collected nicely, but in return, the real problems of foreign Hungarians and the anti-minority violations of neighbouring countries are obscenely silent so as not to cause any disruption in excellent Hungarian-Serbian or even Hungarian-Slovak relations. Unfortunately for you, it is really more important to serve Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's European ambitions [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] as protection of Hungarian national interests and foreign Hungarians. Shame on you that no one on the government's side is here to answer that. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-107	Dear House, Member István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting address on the Eastern border. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The title cannot clearly state what I would like to talk about; I would like to point out, in a prerogative, that I do not want to talk about cigarette smuggling or smuggling, which has been a very serious challenge for the Hungarian authorities at the Hungarian-Ukrainian border for a long time, but I would like to talk about pension business, my fellow Member. I myself live 30-40 kilometers from the Hungarian-Romanian border or the Hungarian-Ukrainian border - or from the border of state formation called Romania and Ukraine, perhaps it is more precise. What arises here in terms of Transcarpathia and Hungarian-Ukrainian relations is quite outrageous. I would also like to advance the fact that, of course, we have no intention of hurting our Transcarpathian national brothers. Before any of you twists it out, there is no mention that Jobbik wants to get into Transcarpathian Hungarians with a pair of feet, because the relationship between the motherland and our cross-border national brothers has already been very stressful. On 5 December 2004, in the light of the outrageous outcome and of the inefficiencies, we know that at that time our domestic brothers across the border were angry with the Hungarians in the motherland, and in the context of the 2014 parliamentary elections, but especially in 2018, we see that a part of the Hungarians in the motherland are feeding largely unwarranted anger towards our national brothers across the border; where the Gyurcsányi and the Orbán power technology are turning the Hungarian against the Hungarian. It is a story here, ladies and gentlemen, that, first of all, I should outline the background of law or international law, that the threads go back to a social policy agreement adopted in 1962. [[16.10]] This was concluded by the Hungarian People's Republic with the Soviet Socialist Republics, then announced in Hungary by the 16th Legislative Decree of 1963. The problem is that this opportunity is not only being used but also being abused by many. The main problem is that some people use extremely high pensions with a number of false certificates issued in the territory of today's Ukraine and false service times. In other words, it is very difficult to follow up on the reality of a certificate in the well-known state administration of Ukraine, it is difficult to verify the reality of such certificates, and after the high positions in the competitive sphere or in the public sector, high positions over a long period of time, hundreds of thousands of forints of pensions are paid either to persons of Ukrainian or Hungarian origin and pensioners. And it seems that somehow it does not want to interfere with the Hungarian administration's filter. Where is social justice, my fellow Members? The pensioner in Hungary, or even the pensioner in Transcarpathia, who has worked his life with honor and honour, will receive a pension of 30-40 thousand forints beyond our current borders, and in the home country will receive an average pension of between 40 and 80 thousand forints after a worked life. This is the real disaster, ladies and gentlemen. Compared to this, there is a narrow circle that is involved in counterfeiting and fraud - this would be the short meaning of the pension business - which, if any, can take up 200-300 or 400 thousand forints' pensions. As committed as we are to the affairs of Hungarians across the border, it would not be possible to leave under suspicion of crime, and it would be a huge mistake. This Convention could be reviewed every five years or, where appropriate, any party may terminate every five years if it indicates its intention at least one year before the end of the next five-year cycle. The rights acquired in the event of termination would not be violated by this kind of action, so anyone who receives a pension legally and with real certificates would, of course, not lose that entitlement. Nevertheless, suspected cases of crime should be reviewed. Just as renegotiation would be a possible solution, for example, Hungarian citizenship could be fixed as a basic condition and the period of service acquired after the acquisition of Hungarian citizenship should be used as a basis for calculating the amount of pension. It is probably not in the interest of the Russian or Ukrainian parties to open these renegotiations. This is why we should probably be thinking about termination, but in order for this to have been effective from 1 July 2018, this convention should have been terminated by July of last year. In the next period, it is worth considering, renegotiating, because it is possible at any time, and in suspected cases, investigations are ordered here in Hungary. And what is particularly serious is that there are not only abuses, counterfeitings and frauds in this matter, but also this state of affairs is a hotbed for crimes against the electoral order, and, in short, election fraud, which I will discuss in detail in my next speeches. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, MEP Erik Fülöp, representative of Jobbik:. The Government could also take action to prevent ecological disasters by banning polluting plastics. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-20-110	[[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President...
u2018-06-20-111	Congressman, is your card in? [[Erik Fülöp: Yes.]] And the microphone's up? [[Erik Fülöp: He's upstairs, of course!]] Can I have a moving microphone for the congressman, please? Thank you very much. You have the floor. [[They're putting a portable microphone in front of the congressman.]] Don't take it out. It's mixed up so we can hear it.
u2018-06-20-112	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Who would not remember one of the most serious ecological disasters of the last two decades in Eastern Hungary, namely the Tisza cyanide pollution in 2000. Unfortunately, as a Tisavasvárian, I personally experienced the terrible destruction due to human irrationality, ignorance, negligence and greed, which destroyed almost the entire wildlife of one of our most beautiful Hungarian rivers, the Tisza for many long years. In fact, it was only because of good luck and the self-healing ability of nature that the Tisza could regenerate. But it is safe to say that the danger that affects our natural waters is not passing away, but is increasing day by day, increasing day by day. The only difference is that in everyday life our natural waters are destroyed not only in the form of toxic chemicals and liquid toxic chemicals, but also in the form of tons of floating plastic waste. As you know, 70 percent of our Earth is covered with water, and a few days ago, on June 8th, we celebrated our natural waters on the occasion of World Ocean Day, and a number of countries drew attention to the ecological disaster that Hungary should take into account. It is well known that the waste produced by households as household waste, as a significant amount of plastic waste, the various shopping bags, disposable PET bottles and bottles, has been degraded for hundreds of years and even thousands of years. Several countries have already assessed the possibility of the ecological disaster that has been involved, and have taken various measures, which can also serve as examples of Hungary. For example, action by countries that have simply banned the marketing and use of plastic shopping bags following the principle of zero tolerance can serve as an example to be followed, or, for example, measures to prevent disposable PET bottles from being placed on the shelves of shops, or by imposing a huge tax or encouraging their recycling. Dear fellow Members, Mr President, According to KSH data in Hungary, at least 2 to 2.5 million tonnes of household waste and household waste are generated annually, of which 15 percent is plastic waste. It is also a shocking fact that every year in our country - now! - 80 million disposable PET bottles are placed on the shelves of stores. And unfortunately, it is true that only a fraction of these are collected selectively by households, and only a small amount of these will be recycled. In the fight of human irresponsibleness and conscious environmental protection, Hungary seems to be becoming increasingly underdeveloped, and unfortunately, in this struggle, the Hungarian government is also doing very badly. Unfortunately, in everyday life, we can see that most of the plastic waste is not in selective waste collections, but not in communal landfills, but, unfortunately, in our environment, in our immediate environment, poisoned, polluting our soils, forests and natural waters. I am very sorry that the government is not important and that environmental protection is not a priority and that it does not take effective measures that many international decisions, for example, can serve in other countries. The Hungarian government does not prohibit the placing on the market of plastic shopping bags or bags, nor does it arrange to reduce the millions of disposable PET bottles on the shelves of shops. And I am also very sorry that the Hungarian Government has not yet recognised the possibility that, with the broad support of waste recycling, we can not only do good for Hungary and the whole world in terms of environmental protection, but also serve the development of our national economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dóra Dúró spoke after the agenda with a title on the biggest problem of Hungarians. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-20-114	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it cannot be debated that the biggest problem of Hungary is the demographic emergency age that has been affecting our country for nearly 40 years, and in this speech I would like to highlight some of the points of view that may be less focused on everyday life or in public speaking, even though it is at least as important as financial incentives which, on the other hand, are very often the subject of political debates. The first is already linked to these, which I would like to draw attention to, which is the claim that financial incentives alone will bring with them the fact that there will be a higher level of childishness in a country. If we look at the geographical location of a region in Hungary where more children are born, it will also show that this is not necessarily true. [[16.20]] After all, the poorest region in the North Plain is at the forefront of the number of children born to a single mother, but when compared in the world or even in Europe, the numbers in Germany are similar to those in Hungary, although the standard of living and the wage level are very different. In fact, in Germany more children were born in the former GDR than in the GDR, although the standard of living was extremely different. Therefore, it is not possible to narrow down the question of population policy and family policy only to this issue, but at the same time it must be self-critical by a society such as the Hungarian one, where the commitment of the large family is an extremely high risk of poverty. Today, there is a greater risk of poverty to be a large family than a pensioner. This is unacceptable in a society. We also talk a lot about a matter of perspective, which is also a legitimate point of view as to the great difference between men and women's wages in our country. And although progress has been made in this regard over the past period, we need to make a very important addition to this. Because the essence of this is not the wage difference between men and women, but the wage difference between men, women without children and mothers is what is really relevant in the labour market. Research in the Visegrád 4 and Poland has shown that a mother can regain the wage level that she sought during her childless period seven years after the birth of her first child, while this decline does not affect men and women without children at all. So in Hungary, the labour market punishes a woman with child to an extreme extent. He's not punishing women, he's punishing motherhood. That's amazing. We also need to talk about how the preparation for motherhood, the discussion of motherhood in society, in the media, is taking place or even taking place in Hungary in the last 30 years. And if we look around, unfortunately, we have to see that we don't. We do not speak at all in public life or in different shows about the natural role, biological capacity and psychological need of women to become mothers. On the other hand, the social processes that have taken place in Hungary, for example, have brought about the age shift of becoming a mother. This also carries extraordinary health risks. A 30-year-old woman is 3.5 times as barren as a 20-year-old woman. There is a much greater chance of miscarriage, it takes a lot more time for the child to conceive, and there is a much greater chance that he will bring a disabled child into the world. Only because the mother is older. Only the mother's age has such a high impact on the risk of health consequences. The role of fathers and the involvement of fathers in the activities of children is a social issue. The approach that the Prime Minister has also said is that he wishes to conclude a contract with Hungarian women is partly commendable, but I would like it to be complemented by the conclusion of a contract with future fathers, because having a child, starting a family, is not the sole decision of future mothers, but the decision of a family and a couple. To play more role in raising children, fathers can bring more children with them. This was also underlined by the head of the KSH Institute for Population Research that this is extremely important. So it's not just monetary benefits, it's also attitude issues that can lead to the birth of more children. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-115	Thank you very much. Are you planning to bring back the system of early retirement benefits that thousands of workers have been waiting for for for years? Mr Tamás Pintér applied for a speech on the agenda titled Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-20-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Since 2012, since Fidesz abolished early retirement pensions, there has been a growing tension between people working in different industries. For several years now, pension experts and trade unions have been demanding a revision of the system, for example, the Iron Trade Union Confederation, but so far they have been hearing deaf from the government. The abolition of early retirement pensions is also incomprehensible and does not always entail additional burden for the State, because both the cover of early retirement and the possibility of early retirement in multinational companies were created by employers by paying 13 percent of the additional contributions, thereby creating a financial background for early retirement. In large part, therefore, the State did not pay for the costs, but the companies did. When the system was released, the government promised that the amount of 13 percent of the contributions released would be included in wages, thus giving workers more pay. However, this did not happen, because the amount released was not built into wages by the multinationals, but increased their profits. With this step, the government abandoned workers who trusted the possibility of early retirement and took the side of the multinationals instead, increasing their profits. It is now clear that the old system has indeed hidden flaws, in many cases an opportunity for abuse, but this could not have given rise to an end to the whole system. There is no need to go too far if we are to find a solution, since a proposal was made in 2015 by trade unions and employers' representatives. The proposal included an ongoing assessment of the workload from work, changes in working capacity and early detection of occupational health injuries. It has also been noted that workers who have become unfit for work must be further employed elsewhere, and that if training is required, the State should contribute to this. As a basic requirement, they also set out the need to make jobs interested in continuously improving working conditions, in order to reduce the harmful impact on workers. Over the last two years, ideas have been refined, but there has been consensus between the two parties. However, the government was not willing to put these proposals on the agenda either. However, it is clear to everyone, whether it is employers or trade unions, that the barbaric deployment of the system has caused a great deal of damage. There are thousands of workers in the heavy and light industry, in health care and in uniform bodies who would be greatly helped by the system and would be given happy and deserved retirement years after many years of physical work. But time is ticking, and if you do not act quickly on early retirement benefits, it is also a major threat to social security, as more and more pension workers who have become disabled in their work will have to be supported by the social security system, which will hardly be covered. This is in no one's interest, so a solution must be drawn up as soon as possible in the interests of workers. It is important that young people are honoured annually, although it should be added in parentheses, with gift vouchers from the government just before the elections, but more importantly, to ensure healthy and happy retirement years for older workers who have been broken under difficult physical conditions, which will cost the Hungarian state almost nothing but good will. The question is whether they are planning to improve this flawed decision to lead to early retirement pensions and finally to hear the words of trade unions and workers, who believe that early retirement pensions are very much needed by those working under heavy physical strain. Of course, we will submit a bill to settle the situation, but the government must finally provide reassuring answers to the serious problem they are facing. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rig Lajos from Jobbik's Group applied for a speech after the agenda on Balaton versus Hungarian reality. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2018-06-20-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a family, I know what it's like to read a story before bedtime and try to visualize an imaginary reality for our children. When they wake up, they go out into reality. That's what I've been trying to put on paper in the form of a story and tell you where I live, what's a story and what's real. Once upon a time, there was a Balaton. Each Hungarian family could spend a few days on Lake Balaton in the summer, all entrepreneurs could apply for EU grants on equal terms, everyone could benefit from the resources that served the development of their settlement, their business, on the basis of a fair, independent application system, regardless of party standing. There was no need to be faithful to the local Fidesz lord for these EU funds, and there was no need to be baptized for these funds. And, of course, you didn't have to redistribute five, ten, 20, or who knows how many percent of the money you won. Businesses did not struggle to survive because of high costs and raw materials prices, they did not cause daily problems to find labour, and workers also made the money that their families were dependent on at home. They were not forced to seek employment abroad, and as a supplemental income they sold home the cheaper purchases of washing powder and various foods in Austria. Tourists from abroad are a XXI. Smiling from Sopron to Lake Balaton on a two-track 84 road of the century, our countrymen working abroad did the same on their way to work and then home to their families. High fuel prices, taxes and unstealed public funds were also used to renovate roads. There was no sign of corruption in the area of Lake Balaton, as well as in the country. Thus, settlements could benefit from much more development resources from the unreached money. But now we've had enough of this story, and I think we need to get back to reality, see what the cold reality is. Reality shows something completely different, people can't be led around forever because they experience something different in their own skin. Fidesz was able to win the election with a disgusting campaign based on lies, terrorizing people and taking advantage of their fears. Meanwhile, there is a lack of minimum conditions in hospitals, and there is slowly no doctor left to operate, so patients have to deal with this. Before the elections, pensioners get a small voucher, which they are happy to have, because Hungary is performing better, I want to say it is perfectly normal for someone to take a pension of HUF 87 thousand after 47 years of employment. The Fidesz carved a huge wedge into society with constant hatred, while there is still an increasing gap between certain layers of society. But let's stick to Lake Balaton, because the transformation of Lake Balaton reflects the state of the country. The area around the lake is now a resting place for the rich, and the biggest beneficiaries of the change must be found in the surroundings of Viktor Orbán. From the crowd's holiday resort for the past few years, Balaton has become more and more a resting place for the privileged. Butchers, Tiborczok, buy the best land to build luxury apartments there; see Badacsony. The free beaches, the campsites, they're disappearing, and they're being built in, and it's clearly the poorer layers that need to get out of the lake. Smaller family businesses that have lived in Balaton for generations do not have the opportunity to survive every day because of a shortage of workers. When will the time come when tourism is made a priority not only for the money that can be stolen, but also for the interests and needs of all Hungarians? I think, if metaphorically speaking, you must have understood the messages that I wanted to convey to you, just as I did to my children. There's one big difference, and I think that the children understand the story that their father and mother use to make them sleep at night, hoping for a better dream. Wake up. Reality is the second part of the story. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-20-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Thank you very much for the help of notary György Szilágyi. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 25 June 2018. I wish you all a good, good night. The meeting's closed.
